ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7779	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. I remind you, Article 168 is Section 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that, during the sitting, on an urgent procedure, proposals for selection, appointment and resolution and termination of office may be put on the agenda of the sittings, provided that most of the total number of MPs attend. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 168(3). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Aleksandar Čotric, Natasa Vukkovic, Tamara Tripic, Konstantin Samofalov and Bozidar Djelic. President of the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, following an urgent procedure, it be put on the agenda of this session of the point – a Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS, which it submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 4 December 2012. The National Assembly, without a search, decides on this. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – seven out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We continue to work and move on to a unique search on - a proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF CONSTRUCTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the President of the National Assembly. Before opening a single search, I remind you that in accordance with Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. You have the details in the material. Has anyone suggested longer than this time? No, I don't. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single debate on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Do any of the motions or presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Since the parliamentary lists of the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. On the basis of Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all the points of the agenda of this session, and since it has already decided on item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Saturday 15 December, starting at 9.25pm, as the Day of Vote on the remainder of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. We're going to vote. Before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. In accordance with Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. We're moving on to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON COMPLETE OF THE BUDGETS SYSTEM Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Budgetary System Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I beg the People's MPs for peace in the O.R. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead on this bill. We had a system error. A colleague warns me of a system error. When a technical error occurs, it is impossible to continue the vote. Let's move on. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead on this bill. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, v – 10, abstentions – one, did not vote – 121 of the total 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the bill in principle. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Miroslav Petkovic, Radojko Obradovic and Milos Aligrudic. The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina accepted the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 140 out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the draft law on supplementing the budget system law in general. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 141, out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the draft law supplementing the Budgetary System Act. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completings of Taxes on Legal Persons Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – 16, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – 18, of a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 5th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Miljenko Dereta, Bojan Djuric and Judita Popovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention – 150, out of a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 17th amendment submitted jointly by the MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted – 156, out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 20th amendment submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention – 151, out of a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 21st Amendment tabled jointly by MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none, the abstentioned – one, voted – 151 out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 22nd amendment submitted jointly by the MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention – 158, out of a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 22nd amendment submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic, the government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 153, out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 23rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Nenad Popović, Dusica Morčević, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević and together the MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta submitted together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 149, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 25 of the amendment, submitted jointly by MPs Nenad Popovic, Ruzica Igic and Dusica Morčev. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 156, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Nenad Popović, Bojana Bozanić, Dusica Morčević, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević and joint MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta submitted to the 27th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 147 out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 28th amendment, submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic, and joint MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 148, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 29th amendment, submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic, and joint MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 148, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th Amendments submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic and joint MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 148, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic and joint MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional and Issues and Legislative Affairs considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 149 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 32nd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic and joint MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional and Issues and Legislative Affairs considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 149 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic and joint MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional and Issues and Legislative Affairs considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 148 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional and Issues and Legislative Affairs considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 156 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional and Issues and Legislative Affairs considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstention, has voted— 160 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional and Issues and Legislative Affairs considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted – 159 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 126, against – 14, the abstention – there is no, no vote – 27 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate tax. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF ACCUSES Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 13, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – 26 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to the amendment decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to Articles 1 and 7 and to the amendment that I propose to add new members of 2a, 3a and 12a submitted by the Government. Also, that MP Zoran Kasalovic, in writing, withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 7. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Milan Lapčević submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 156 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Olga Batic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: it did not vote – 167 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstention, has voted—162 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of 15. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – three abstentions – there is no, no vote – 40 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – 14, the abstention – there is no, no vote – 28 out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. I am informing the National Assembly that the ninth session of the National Assembly, scheduled for 10.00 hours, will be postponed and started at 10:30, due to the vote, or after the vote is completed. We move to the fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE TERMINATION OF MONEY OBLIGATIONS IN COMMERCIAL TRANSACTIONS. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – eight abstentions – there is no vote, 30 of the 166 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the Government to Article 5. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Srdjan Mikovic submitted an amendment proposing an amendment to the name of the bill. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for—ten, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 157 out of 168 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 152 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Ivan Bauer. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 163 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Bojana Krkic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, no one, with abstentions, voted 46 out of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 out of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 160 out of the 171 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 5th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Janko Veselinovic and Nenad Popovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one with abstention – has voted 142 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 out of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of 170 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. They didn't say anything about correction. ) The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare that for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 152 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 13. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, no one, with abstentions, voted 46 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 13th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 158 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14 of the amendment was filed by MP Ivan Bauer. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare that for—seven, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 164 out of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 157 out of the 171 MPs, for –14 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted 160 out of the 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 out of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions, as a whole. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead on this bill. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 versus – 17 abstentions – no, 24 of the 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a TERMS OF CATEGORY AND PEACE OF THE IRSECTION After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on the conditional write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124 against – 2 abstentions – there is no, no vote – 45, of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 14 submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 160 of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 160 of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 158, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 160, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 158, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Olgica Batic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after article 5. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 4, no one, with abstentions, has voted – 161 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 165, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 166, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 165, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Janko Veselinovic submitted an amendment with an amendment, which he proposed that a new article 8a be added after article 8. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment with a correction, in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 161 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the title above the article 10th and on the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 8, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 169 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Radmila Gerov and Judita Popovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 166, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 160 of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 166 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 14 submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic, who is scheduled to enter into force the next day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 47 of the 175 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal and that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the conditional write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one, with abstention – voted 46 out of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the conditional write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the exchange of foreign exchange laws. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – six abstentions – there is no vote, 40 of the 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 4th amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 162 out of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The MPs Nenad Popovic, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic together submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted 161 of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the 28th amendment, MPs Nenad Popovic, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic together submitted. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 164 out of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act, as a whole. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 versus – 12 abstentions – no, 31 of the 174 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Public Entrepreneurship. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on public enterprises to the vote, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – 24 abstentions – there is no vote, 23 of the total 174 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I find that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy to Articles 2, 6, 11, 16, 17, 22, 39, 65 and 66. The draft law, since the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has assessed that these amendments are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Jeremic and Momo Colakovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 160 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted 162 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic, Donka Banovic and Milan Lapčević. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote with the correction. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted 162 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 164 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted – 169 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 166 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—163 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 162 out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted – 161 out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted – 168 out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Donka Banovic, Gorica Gajic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 162 out of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Donka Banovic, Gorica Gajic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 162 out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric Bojan Djuric, Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 163 of the total 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 165 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 16th amendment, with a correction of December 4th and a correction of December 6, 2012, MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Ramila Gero and Zoran Ostojic together submitted. The government has not accepted the amendment and the amendment since 4 December 2012. the year, and the corrections of 6 December 2012, did not come out. The resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the corrections. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 165 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and amendments have not been approved. The resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—163 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 161 out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 163 of the total 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Dusica Morčev together submitted the 20th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 162 out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment with the correction of 6 December 2012 was submitted by MP Vesna Jovicki, and the amendment of 1 December 2012 withdrawn. The Government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not declared themselves correcting the amendments. I'm putting the amendment to the vote with the correction. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one with abstention for nine, and there is no one to vote – 167 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not voted, 178 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Judita Popovic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 153 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment on Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 156 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 165 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – for nine of them – 168 of the 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 164 out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 171 of the 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an amendment with a correction to Article 27, was submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. At its meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The government has not declared itself correcting the amendments. I'm putting the amendment to the vote with the correction. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 48 out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 166 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Karolj Cizik. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted— 169 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Teodora Vlahovic. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The government didn't say anything about the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention – 170 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was filed by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The Government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not declared themselves correcting the amendments. I'm putting the amendment to the vote with the correction. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one with abstentions has voted – 155 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric, Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 153, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic, Maja Vidinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 154, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic, Maja Vidinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 151 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Gorica Gajic and Bojana Bozanic submitted together to the 38th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 163, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 166, out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 175, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 39th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 166, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Alexander Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojisic and Karolj Cizik. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 169 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 39th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 175, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic, Gorica Gajic and Dusica Morčev. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 167 out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Gorica Gajic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 168 out of the 179 MPs, for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Donka Banovic together submitted to the 52nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to the vote with the correction. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 167 out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 55th Amendment were submitted by MP Teodora Vlahovic and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostres, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojisic and Karolj Cizik. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstention – voted 163, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov and Judita Popovic to the government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Donka Banovic submitted together to the 60th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 166, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric, Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 155 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Olga Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 178 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 67th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 167 out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft law on public enterprises in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123, v -43, with abstentions – there is no vote, 16 of the 182 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on public enterprises. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 122, v – 20, abstentions – no, 38 of the 180 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MP Ivan Jovanovic, written in writing, withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 5. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, the MPs Algica Batic and Nenad Popovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milan Lapčević submitted together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted 164 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 174 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 176 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Radmila Gerov and Judita Popovic jointly submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 172 out of 176 MPs, for – 4, against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted the 5th amendment together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted 164 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment with a correction during the review of the draft law in particular. The resolution committee did not accept the amendment in the basic text, and the correction was not made. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in the basic text in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and the corrections have not been made. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, with abstention – voted 46 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 166 out of the 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 175 out of 177 MPs for – two against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Radmila Gerov and Judita Popovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 out of the 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 164 out of the 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 175 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Radmila Gerov and Judita Popovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 171 out of the 175 MPs for – four against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted the 9th amendment together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 161 out of the 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 162 out of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I remind you it's Article 10. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 122, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 48 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 122, v – 17, abstentions – there is no, no vote – 28 out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of the Law on Privatization. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – 11 abstentions – no, 33 out of the 168 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Milan Lapčević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 158 of the total 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – 11 abstentions – there is no, no vote – 33 out of the 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act. We move on to the 11th point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF A STRANGE REFERENCE LAW. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on tight interest, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123 against – 11 abstentions – there is no vote, 34 of the total 168 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the draft law has become an amendment of the Government to Article 4, given that it has been adopted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of 169 MPs for – 10 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Gorica Gajic and Dusica Morčev together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Gorica Gajic and Dusica Morčev together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 160 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 168 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Gorica Gajic and Dusica Morčev. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Gorica Gajic and Dusica Morčev. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 162 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment, with correction, were together submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic and Dusica Morchev. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 162 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Olga Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for four, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 168 out of the 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the draft law on tight interest, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 12 abstentions – no, 29 of the 171 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a proposal for a tight interest bill. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Security Act. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. I'm putting the draft law amending the Insurance Act, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one with abstentions – there is no vote, no vote was taken by 43 of the 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Insurance Act. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on copyright and related rights. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – 17 abstentions – no, 29 of the 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MP Predrag Markovic, on December 4, 2012, by written means, withdrew the amendment to Article 11, that the MPs Olgica Batic and Mirko Chikiriz, on 5 and 6 December 2012, had withdrawn the amendment by written written, with a correction to Article 6, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law had, on the basis of Article 163(2). Rules of Procedure, rejected as incomplete amendments submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic, and became an integral part of the bill's proposal to become the amendment of MP Predrag Markovic to the article. 2nd and 6th, as well as the Government's amendment to Article 6. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by the MPs Olgica Batic, Mirko Cikiriz and Aleksandar Jugovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and amendments have not been approved. The resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 170 out of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milica Radovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 out of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 171 out of the 173 MPs for – two against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Vesna Jovicki, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 158, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 3 was submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123 against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted – 49, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olgica Bakic, Mirko Cikiriz and Aleksandar Jugovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and amendments have not been declared. The resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, has voted – 169 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Jovicki. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 154, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 5th amendment in the same text, MP Srdjan Mikovic and Olgica Batic and Mirko Cikiriz submitted together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 162 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 159 out of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Mojovic and Vesna Marjanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 157 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petkovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—164, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olgica Batic, Mirko Cikiriz and Aleksandar Jugovic. The resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted – 168, of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 160, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 159 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olgica Batic, Mirko Cikiriz and Aleksandar Jugovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and amendments have not been approved. The resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted— 169 out of a total of 171 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – 159 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olgica Batic, Mirko Cikiriz and Aleksandar Jugovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and amendments have not been approved. The resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – 168, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olgica Batic, Mirko Cikiriz and Aleksandar Jugovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and amendments have not been approved. The resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 167 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – 162, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 158 of the total 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act as a whole. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 120, against – 25 abstentions – there is no vote, 23 of the total 168 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act. In order to determine the quorum for the next item of the agenda for which we need 126 MPs, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards, but from now on. I'm saying that we've established that there's a quorum to decide on. We move on to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Download of Obligations to Health Institutions under VEDROGERIES ON THE BASE OF THE PURCHASE OF MEDICINAL PRODUCTS AND MEDICINAL PRODUCTS AND THE TRANSPORT OF THESE OBJECTIVES TO THE PUBLIC REPUBLIC OF SERVES. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, before moving to a decision, I remind you that Article 105 paragraph 3 is point 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that the National Assembly decides on laws governing public borrowing by majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the draft law on the obligation of health institutions to large-scale drugs on the basis of the purchase of drugs and medical materials and the conversion of these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, v – 18, abstentions – there is no vote, 10 of the 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle, before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Milica Radovic, in writing, withdrew the amendment together to Article 4. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 144 out of the 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 142 out of the 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the obligation of health institutions to large-scale drugs on the basis of the purchase of drugs and medical materials and the conversion of these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, v – 23, abstentions – there is no vote, nine of the 158 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the votes of all MPs a bill on the taking over of obligations of health institutions according to large-scale drugs based on the purchase of medicines and medical materials and the conversion of these obligations to the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 15th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Health Protection Law. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, v – 14, abstentions – no, 20 of the 160 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the MPs Mileta Poscurica, Milan Knezevic, Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic, Ninoslav Girić, Branislav Blažić, Predrag Mijatovic and Aleksandar Radojević withdrew the amendment to Article 9. It's a bill of law. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is, in accordance with Article 163. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as incomplete amendments to the National MPs Milos Aligrudić and Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who proposed that new members of the 3a, 3b and 3v and amendments be added after Article 8a and the amendments of the National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Bojana Bozanic, which were proposed to add a new article 8b after Article 8. An integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment groups of 54 MPs of the SNS Group to members 6 and 9. Proposal for Laws and People's MPs Janko Veselinović and Theodore Vlahovic on Article 8. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milica Radovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 142 out of 159 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 146 out of 158 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, has voted – 148 out of 159 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 8, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 153 out of 161 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 150 of the 161 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 150 of the 162 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted the 6th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 150 of the 162 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one to vote— 156 out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 151 out of 163 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mileta Poscurica, Milan Knezevic, Ljubica Mrdakovic-Todorović, Ninoslav Girić, Branislav Blažic, Predrag Mijatović and Aleksandar Radojevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Health and Family Committee has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 23 out of 162 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 150 of the 163 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 16, the abstention – two, did not vote – 16 out of 164 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completions of the Health Insurance Law Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 13, the abstention – one, did not vote – 22 of the total 164 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. National MP Srdjan Shine, on 27 November 2012, wrote in writing, withdrew the amendment to add a new member to article 1. National MP Mirjana Dragas, written on 1 December 2012, withdrew the amendments to Article 4. National MPs Radojko Obradovic and Miroslav Petkovic, written on 5 December 2012, withdrew the amendment to Article 2. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been rejected as incomplete, amendments of the People's MPs: Milos Aligrudić and Sanda Raskovic Ivić, adding a new member of 2a after Article 2a and adding a new member of 4a, the amendment of the MPs Milice Vojić Markovic, Milice Radovic, who is added after Article 5a and after Article 8a. An integral part of the Bill's proposal became amendments of the People's MPs: Mirjana Dragas to Article 4, Milet Poscurica, Milan Knezevic, Ljubice Mrdaković Todorovic, Ninoslav Giric, Branislav Blažić, Predrag Mijatovic and Aleksandr Radojevic to Article 4, with a correction, a group of 54 MPs of the SNS Group to members 6, 7 which is added after Article 7a and which is added after Article 8a by a new member of 8b, the amendment to the Government, which is added after Article 5a, and after Article 8, a new member of the 8a and the amendment of the Committee on Health and Family to which a new Article 1 is added after Article 1. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 155 out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milica Radovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 151 out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 136 out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milos Aligrudic and Sanda Raskovic Ivic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 153 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions – has voted – 149 out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 153 of the total 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 151 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milica Radovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 152 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted the 6th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 156 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 153 of the total 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milica Radovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 154 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted – 154 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 19 abstentions – there is no, no vote – 20 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act. We move to the 17th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission for the control of criminal sanctions After the National Assembly has carried out a single search and before the transition to decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 1 point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, against – no one, abstention – one, voted – 18 of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to elect members of the Commission to control the execution of criminal sanctions by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 18th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE MEMBER STATES AND OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC AS THE National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group of the United Pensioners of Serbia. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, against – there is no one with abstention – not a vote – 15 of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group of the United Pensioners of Serbia. We move to the 19th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND OF THE REFERENCE OF MEMBER STATES AS THE National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the United Regions of Serbia. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 16 of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the United Regions of Serbia. We move to the 20th item of the agenda - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE TERMINATION OF THE CONSTRUCTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly shall exercise the electoral authority with the majority of votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 19 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes of all MPs has made a decision to determine the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. We move to the 21st point of the agenda - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE TERMINATION OF THE CONSTRUCTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS (Number 02-4044/12, since 4.12.2012) Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search and before the transition to decision-making, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 15) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly holds the electoral power over most of the votes of all national MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – 159 against – there is no one with abstention – there is no vote – 16 out of the 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes of all MPs has made a decision to determine the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Rules under which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, he may request, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly be made clear in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving to a decision. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, at a session on 29 November 2012 at 19 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to the violation of members 109 and 110. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 156 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Janko Radaković, at a session on 29 November 2012 at 19 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 207. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 152 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nada Kolundji, at a session on 30 November 2012, at 10 o'clock and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 27 and 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 156 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Radoslav Milovanovic, at a session on 30 November 2012, at 11 o'clock and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 116 and with regard to Article 112. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 156 out of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Jovan Palalić, at a session on 30 November 2012, at 13 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 161 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, at a session on 30 November 2012, at 15 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 149 of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Veroljub Arsic, at a session on 30 November 2012, at 16 o'clock, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 75, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 97 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, at a session on 30 November 2012, at 16 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 161 out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Milisav Petronijevic, at a session on 3 December 2012, at 14 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 164 of the total 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic, at a session on 3 December 2012, at 17.05 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jelena Travar Miljević, at a session on 6 December 2012, at 15.10 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 171 of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Snezana Stojanović Plassic, at a session on December 6th, 2012, at 3:15 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marijan Risticevic, at a session on 11 December 2012, at 18.35 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 158 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milos Aligrudic, at a session on 13 December 2012, at 12.10 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 147 out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milos Aligrudic, at a session on 13 December 2012, at 12.15 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, at a session on 13 December 2012, at 17.35 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. The session is closed at 12.25 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7780	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE COURT OF STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT The ninth session of the Second Regular Session (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 15 December 2012 (The session began at 12.25 hours. The session is chaired by Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7781	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we move on to the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. I am opening the ninth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 130 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Micunovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7782	You, Mr. President, have called this session invoking Article 86(2) and Article 87(2) so that the session can also be called in those days when it is not normally working and that it does not have to wait seven days, but it can be shortened. You have called on that member, but in your explanation, there is one sentence. I'd like you to explain it then. You say - because of the need to urgently pass this law. Since we have a set of criminal laws on the agenda, then we can create a public impression that the country is in a very tense state of the legal system crisis and that it is very urgent and important that on Saturday, and early, we start working, even though Saturdays are not working. I ask you, that instead of this sentence, which says nothing, except that you give yourselves the right to have a session at any time, other than the Rules of Procedure, in which you only say, because it is necessary that these laws be passed as soon as possible. Then I would ask you to explain it now to the Assembly, so both the Assembly and the citizens will understand this haste and this work of ours on Saturdays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7783	As far as your question is concerned, I believe that fighting corruption and crime is one of the priorities of this country. The laws we pass will certainly help to make the country more efficient in dealing with corruption and crime and to move faster towards the EU, because these laws are something that brings us closer to EU legislation. I hope you could see that in the bill. I think it's one of the priorities of this country, and I think it was very important, and even on Saturday, MPs can work on unworkable days if it's in the interest of our country. As for whether or not I hurt the Rules of Procedure, you have so far had the opportunity to see that we will always put to the vote whether or not I hurt the Rules of Procedure, since you said that by breaking the Rules of Procedure I have scheduled this session. We'll see in voting day whether I did it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not. The work of the National Assembly so far has not been established in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and so far it has not been established that the president or chairman of the National Assembly has violated the Rules of Procedure, so that the work so far has been in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I am convinced that this decision has also been in line with the Rules of Procedure and to the greatest extent with the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We've already had several reports of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so we'll get to the bottom of this first. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7784	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens who watch the session of the National Assembly on Saturday, reporting on Article 105 on the violation of Article 126. Rules of Procedure. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure very harshly today because you've passed the law... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7785	You can't advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure for a session that's closed. You can only advertise on the Rules of Procedure a violation of the Rules of Procedure for a session that is under way, so I can't let you do that. Excuse me, Article 103(1), you can't do this. I'm sorry. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7786	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating injuries. 27 and 106. I think you, Mr. Stefanovic, have done harm to these members of the Rules of Procedure, giving such an explanation to Mr. Micunovic's remarks. I would fully understand and support your ambition to fight corruption on Saturdays and Sundays if two conditions were met before that. Let's just say yesterday there was a session of the Assembly. Yesterday was Friday, and we could've worked Friday, not start Saturday. Another problem is the content of the law you have proposed. That's what we'll talk about in this second part. There are elements of the fight against corruption, but there are also mitigations of penalties for some of the crimes involved in corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7787	I certainly believe that in the debate we will have the opportunity to discuss the details of these laws in detail. As for this, when I convened this session, I predicted when the previous session would end and that's why it's over today. I would have scheduled it for yesterday, but it took certain laws to be in the process for 15 days, because certain laws in this procedure are under ordinary procedure and that's why it's scheduled for today. I think the MPs have the right to speak their mind. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7788	I know you've been counting on 15 days and that's why the session is scheduled for today. I'm sorry that lawmakers, in this case the government, did not place a mark or request for an emergency procedure, so it has to wait 15 days, the opposite of what you spoke of as the government's ambition and the ruling majority, to face the root of corruption as quickly as possible. Then there's their mistake or their incompetence or negligence, however, by correcting the session that starts on Saturday, early afternoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7789	I think it's important that we deal with corruption as soon as possible. Of course, we as the National Assembly will do everything possible to be as determined as possible. Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7790	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course it's important that we establish some order in our relations, but we cannot build it on the level at which you would like it to be. You are the President of the Assembly, Mr. Stefanovic, even if you find it difficult to understand, you are obliged to tell the truth here, the truth... (President: Just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Jovanovic? () Article 27, I said. You've offered an MP's remark from a colleague from the DS, you've given a false explanation. You said this session was scheduled... (President: Please do not use terms that are offensive to the National Assembly, since no one here gives any false notices. Please adjust your speech to the National Assembly. ) To tell you the truth, I'm old enough to know where the boundaries of decency and enough parliamentary experience to know what language you only understand. I'm sorry, the humiliation is... (President: Mr. Jovanovic, I give you a reminder. Why? It's not enough, Mr. Stefanovic, to take off your underwear and become... (President: I give you another reminder. )......................................................................................................... But that's why you don't need an escort at every step of the hall. Let's finish this discussion of ours. The fact is, as president of the assembly, you're obliged to tell the truth. A colleague from the DS asked you a question – why are you holding a parliamentary session like this? You said it was for fighting corruption and crime. I remind you, we're not all upside down. You will have the opportunity to prove your seriousness in the fight against corruption and crime through the vote on the declaration we have proposed, in which the fight against corruption and crime from the tabloids returns to legal frameworks and ceases to be an obsession of one man or one party and becomes the duty of every authority in the country. We'll see how you vote on that. You've given a false explanation. You schedule the session on Saturday, because of the sloppyness of your ruling coalition, not because of your desire to fight corruption and crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7791	Time, Mr. Jovanovic. MP Dragan Shormaz, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7792	Mr. President, Art. 106th and 107th. Rules of Procedure - dignity of the National Assembly. I think that in this way, it violates the dignity of some MPs who complain about working on Saturday. I really don't see why? It's not hard for me as a MP to work on Saturday... (President: I just need to draw your attention to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure can only be done by the President of the National Assembly, not by MPs who address. Yes, I'm talking to you. I think you should stop it. The next person who asks for something like that, tell him that it's already shown as an injury and that it's no longer done. It is not difficult for me to pass laws – criminal law and criminal proceedings and everything else needed in the serious fight against crime and corruption, to work night and Sunday. I don't see what the problem is today that we're working, really?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7793	The People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7794	Mr. President, you've violated the law most harshly. Eight and nine. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. In fact, the MP has the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that's exactly what happened. The MPs have indicated that you have violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which determine what conditions and how the session is scheduled and maintained. They were absolutely right to object to you. You then gave notice measures to the MP, regardless of the fact that in Article 109, which clearly defines in which cases the warning measure is expressed, did not violate any provision of Article 109. So in the most cruel way, you violated and abused the position of National Assembly president and showed self-will. I must, no matter what I risk getting a warning, say, violence in the work of the National Assembly. The most grave violation of the Rules of Procedure was when you gave the measures of caution, since none of what was stated in article 109 was possible to give rise to the measure of caution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7795	Of course I don't think so, but in the day of the vote, we'll make a statement about your proposal. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7796	Article 104 of the replica. I think I'm misinterpreted... (President: I did not give you a replica. Did you ask for a replica? If you were looking for a replica, then Mr. Djuric has priority over you because he was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Can I have each other? (President: If it is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you are right. Here you go. ) You are my protest, which is scheduled for sessions and Saturdays, and the Rules of Procedure say that on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, it is not an accident to write, because it is necessary to read all the laws, to prepare amendments, and it is known to me, so I asked you, you gave me a lesson in the explanation that it is because you are fighting corruption, and apparently, I am up to corruption and I want to postpone it. Don't use such cheap tricks. The fight against corruption is not about chasing, but it is about systematic reforming of society in general and through normal flows of competent authorities. So the real thing is what's the key, and let's leave that stalker easy. I am against the gentleman whom you celebrated because he was arrested, spoke only here in parliament and in his party and voted long before he had done so. Therefore, when it comes to corruption, do not give yourself exclusive credit. All MPs are anti-corruption fighters, this is what the law requires them to do, and that is what the citizens have ordered them to do. So let's not make a campaign out of it, but let's discuss the Rules of Procedure, whether it's necessary or not. I heard we're not gonna work Wednesday because a lot of people need to celebrate... (President: Time, Mr. Micunovic. ) Let's see if it suffers from the fight against corruption then. I warn you, we never violate the Rules of Procedure without necessity.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7797	Thank you. Just as I share your opinion, believing that all MPs would be involved in the fight against corruption, I wanted to give them the right as soon as possible. I didn't want their right to be delayed. The National Assembly, although the Rules of Procedure say it works on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, will work on Saturdays and Sundays and after hours, in order to include as many quality laws as possible in the systemic fight against corruption and crime. Thank you for your contribution and your wishes. MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7798	We're not gonna work on Fridays, are we? On Wednesdays and Fridays, he fasts in the fight against corruption. You've injured Article 109. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which very clearly defines the legal mechanism as being given to the MP of the notice. I believe that you may be hoping for unlimited power and authority, but as long as this Rules of Procedure is in force, you can only give notice to the MP when some of the precise conditions are met. Can you explain to me what offence Mr. Jovanovic committed, so you gave him a warning? Did he approach the pay phone? It may have occurred to you or used cursing and offensive expressions. Can you give a warning to all the People's MPs in accordance with Article 109 paragraph 1 point 4 as SNS MPs interfere with the speaker and earn as he speaks? Can you literally apply the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Stefanovic, I'm asking you. It was just 15 SNS MPs who committed an offence far more serious than the one you gave Mr Jovanovic a warning about. Please be consistent with the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, you're proposing a criminal code, you're decriminalizing slander, and here you're making warnings in parliament because you seem to find some kind of insult. I'm sorry, the term "false notification" is really not offensive. I don't know what to say to Mr. Shormaz. You've allowed me to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure and tell how the proposed amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure increase the fight against corruption. For those MPs of the ruling majority, who have not read, the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure puts off the start of its application for nine months.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7799	It's Mrs. Kolundji's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7800	Mr. President, once again, you have violated the Rules of Procedure for which you are responsible. So, for his execution, you're the only one responsible. What are you going to allow in this room, the responsibility is on you? You have violated Article 103 which clearly obliges you that if the MP pointed to you in breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have no right to say that you do not consider that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. You have to give an explanation why you think that, based on the application of the Rules of Procedure, you did not violate that same Rules of Procedure. You have nothing to consider here. Here you are obliged to explain, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, why you think that the injury you are told of has not been done, not that you say that you do not consider that you have not done it. What you think, we've been looking at for a long time, we'd like you to follow the rules and Rules of Procedure and see what the rule that obliges you to respect this Rules of Procedure says.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7801	I don't think I've broken any of the Rules of Procedures of the National Assembly. This is what the National Assembly will declare in the day of the vote. You were right, like all MPs, to point to the violations of the Rules of Procedure. I still don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure because I've been holding a session with my conduct, and that's the right thing for me to do, and in accordance with what I've estimated to be right, I've made my own decisions. That's my explanation. If my argument is not clear enough, we can plead on that in the voting day, through the breach of the Rules of Procedure you asked for. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7802	Mr. President, I would use the right to replicate. She's mentioned by the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7803	You have no right. We still have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7804	There are members of the Rules of Procedure that we cannot discuss whether they have been broken or not. You have again violated Article 27 and Article 109. This is, to explain to you, and to make it as simple as possible, a procedural rule. So when you give notice or any other sanction to the MP, it's like a court ruling, like a court ruling. You must correctly call upon a certain member, a certain position, and explain by what act, in a word, the form of conduct, the MP, to whom you give the sanction, deserved to be imposed, or violated by one of the members of this Rules of Procedure. It's a subject we can't discuss. It's not a question of voting at the end of this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7805	I followed Article 109. A position which states that a national MP may be given a warning if he uses swearing or offensive expressions or if other proceedings violates the order of the sitting or acts contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. This is my assessment, since the president of the National Assembly has the right to make such a decision on the basis of his assessment at the National Assembly session, because that is why the president of the National Assembly is elected. That's why I gave two warnings to Mr. Jovanovic, if that's the explanation you asked for. Your request for violation of the Rules of Procedure will be made public in the day of the vote. This provides for this Rules of Procedure, not for you to determine whether I broke the Rules of Procedure or someone else, but for the National Assembly. That's why there's this institute. The word is made by MP Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7806	Thank you. I suggest a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103. This is point 4, since the MP is obliged to indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the conduct of the President of the National Assembly and to explain what the infringement is. Mrs. Kolundji said two reports ago that he was a injured member of the 8th. I heard very well. Article 8 is the way in which the president of the National Assembly is elected. If we're going to go into procedural obstruction, I don't think that should be an interest in this room in any way, especially when it comes to such important laws. We can make it all the way. I wanted to point out this injury the way we can discuss here, waste time, distract people with unnecessary stories, and that's why I pointed out. I hope you will continue to hold the session in one appropriate way, suitable for what we need to discuss today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7807	Thank you. I assume Mrs. Kolundji is a mistake, a lapus, instead of Article 108. (Hope of Kolundji, from the place: How was the mistake? ) You said Article 8 and Article 9. In the next two sentences, you were corrected and you said Articles 108 and 109. You'll be told by a colleague around you. It's not an evil intention. I didn't interrupt. I thought it was a lapus. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a violation of Section 103. Rules of Procedure. The chairman allowed MPs to advertise that he had violated the Rules of Procedure between the two sessions. In Article 103 paragraph 9, the MP may indicate such a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but by written means. I can also say that the application of this Rules of Procedure, which is sharper, was not introduced in this assembly of parliament, but even earlier when one MP from the LDP ruled out the entire parliamentary group from the session of the Serbian Parliament, even MPs who were not in the hall that day.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7809	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7810	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 103. You are obliged to give explanations to the MPs every time someone points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Your answer is no. The assembly will plead. The National Assembly can by all means vote that today is Friday or Thursday, and as we had the opportunity to see during the vote, the vote will be repeated until the desired result is obtained, that is, until the National Assembly decides what should be decided. Please ask that when MPs advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that you really try to explain why the Rules of Procedure is not hurt and that you ask them if the National Assembly wants to make a statement. Your observation that you have broken some procedure may not be that the National Assembly will plead, but that you should ask the MPs whether they want to. I'm asking you to adopt that. We've seen it voice until the desired result is passed. What the National Assembly will declare and how we have seen in the course of the previous vote is not relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7811	Every time I am every MP of the people, of course I will ask you at the end of my argument whether you want the National Assembly to declare itself. That's what I said every time. (More Messengers of the people were cast out of the place.) You did not. I did. I said – of course you have the right to ask the National Assembly to make a statement about it, expecting an answer from the MP. So, as far as I'm concerned, none of the MPs who have come forward by word so far, although most have repeatedly come forward, did not say in their announcement that they wanted the National Assembly to declare it. The MPs have an obligation to plead and to demand that the National Assembly be made known if they are not satisfied with the explanation of the President of the National Assembly. Of course, what you said, I'm trying to give an explanation that I find appropriate. I don't think I've violated Article 103 that you cited as the basis for violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because I believe the arguments I gave were appropriate. I gave an explanation that was about telling the warning, and I gave an explanation about the session I called. All other violations of the Rules of Procedure required by the MPs mainly referred to one of these two. I can repeat every time an explanation for each of these members and, of course, that's not my problem, but I thought the MPs who asked for it had already heard that argument. I will no longer really allow, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to call for the same infringements of the Rules of Procedure, because this is what the Rules of Procedure allows me to do, and I will certainly not allow the work of this session to be obstructed through the Infringement Institute of the Rules of Procedure. This is my argument to you, and you, of course, have the right not to be satisfied with my explanation and to ask the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to declare it in the day of the vote. That, as you saw from the previous vote, is no problem for us. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Mr. Jovanovic, you have no right to reply yet, there are more injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Đuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7812	I'm advertising an injury. 107th and 109th. You haven't given a warning, if you've already introduced that criterion, and I remind you that you've made a mess today... (More MPs speak out loud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7813	Allow Mr. Djuric, please, to complete the exposure. When Mr. Djuric points out what the essence of the breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7814	This is another violation of article 109.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7815	All I'm asking is that we allow the People's Parliament to complete the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7816	It is not the same three times, I advertise that the President of Parliament hurt the Rules of Procedure when he did not warn, interrupt or punish Mr Arsic, who spoke two minutes ago. I think that Mr Arsic has injured the dignity of the National Assembly, that he has injured members of Section 1st and 107nd, when he presented facts from the past of Parliament's work, not all the way. So it is true, if you were referring to Natasha Micic, who was then the president of Parliament and the official of the Civil League, not the LDP, but you must say who she was punishing. So she punished the SRS, whose MP you were then. We are not ashamed that Natasa Micic, not as an MP and official of the Civil Union of Serbia, and we are not ashamed of what the LDP is doing today. You have a problem with the ugly past.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7817	Mr. Babic, are you answering the Rules of Procedure? (Zoran Babic, from the site: The mention of the parliamentary group. I ask all MPs to return to the agenda, since the debate in this way can completely disrupt the course of the session. Mr. Risticevic, can I ask you to give up? (Marian Risticevic, from the place: I give up. Thank you very much. Mr. Granny, and I ask you to give up this time so we can get back to the session. Thank you. The word is Mrs. Kolundji, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7818	With the best desire to move to the agenda point, you are truly responsible for not respecting the Rules of Procedure and for starting this session by turning it into something that is not appropriate. You've injured members 27 and 109. Of course, that's how you hurt a 107 because you actually hurt the dignity of the National Assembly by letting things go the way they do. So you punished the MP because you didn't like the expression...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7819	Mrs. Kolundjia, I cannot allow you to continue with this, because several MPs have already been called upon by that member.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7820	Excuse me, will you listen to what the injury is?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7821	You just said it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7822	Article 109. As the previous speaker spoke, as I speak now, you do not warn the messengers of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7823	Mr. Djuric said the same thing. You are referring to the same member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7824	Do you realize that the injury appears during the session? Read the Rules of Procedure, teach him. Every time someone talks, and you don't warn those who earn, you do hurt the Rules of Procedure. You have to understand that. So now you're also doing an injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7825	Every time I warn the Messengers of the people who do so. Please, Mr Đurić and you have already carried out this violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you have no right to do so under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7826	If you continue to do so, we will endeavor to remind you that you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure, because it is written by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7827	I understand you, and I will certainly warn the Messengers of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7828	Please, you can't take my word. You have no right to interrupt me unless you have the grounds to claim that I answered without a business basis. So I didn't answer without a business basis. I have the right to point out that the President is in violation of the Rules of Procedure because, as the MP speak directly before me, the MPs receive, and the president does not give notice to those who in this way break Article 109 roughly. Mr. President, I know that you have a majority that, as your former boss used to say, can turn Politika's entertainer into a law. It's not that, it's that this Rules of Procedure you have to respect and carry out the procedures in accordance with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7829	They were all kinds of ex-bosses, but as far as your objections are concerned, I agree with the section on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. As for the reminders of all the MPs who make noise in the hall, I pray to all the MPs, and I have done so many times during today's vote, and you have been able to notice that during the previous sessions of the National Assembly I often warn and MPs of my MP group, just to violate the Rules of Procedure from these points. I ask you, as well as everyone else, to stick to the Rules of Procedure and not to advertise the points of the Rules of Procedure that the MPs have already indicated. I didn't bring this Rules of Procedure, I wasn't even a folk MP when it came to voting on the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, it was brought by another majority. Mrs. Jerkov, I ask you to give up, too, after I have asked my MPs, the MPs belonging to the SNS Group, to give up, to return to the agenda. Here you go, Mrs. Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7830	First of all, Mr Stefanovic, I really don't understand that remark about your MPs and those MPs that aren't yours. I'm reporting for article 103. Right now, in the explanation of Mrs. Kolundjia, you said that it cannot be pointed to an injury to the same section of the Rules of Procedure that it has already been pointed to. That's absolutely impossible. It cannot be pointed to the same breach of the Rules of Procedure that has already been mentioned, and also one breach of the Rules of Procedure may occur several times during the same session, even several times during the speech of the same speaker. You completely unfoundedly interrupted Mrs. Kolundji and did not allow her to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, although she pointed to a completely new breach of the Rules of Procedure. I understand that you have your deputies and those who are not yours, we may not give up on this Rules of Procedure respecting your request, but please do not treat us differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7831	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Aleksandar Čotric, Natasa Vukovic, Tamara Tripic, Konstantin Samofalov and Bozidar Djelic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, exceptionally, for Saturday, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for laws and other acts from the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. The word has Mr. Jovanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7832	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come to the floor to appeal to the right given to me by the Rules of Procedure, and I would like to ask you to suggest a word to me. When someone falsely describes the actions of a party, and does it knowingly, not by mistake, what is it called? Is that a false accusation of someone? When your MPs speak falsely of the parliamentary group that I represent here in the Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7833	Again, I ask you not to use expressions that are inappropriate to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7834	Mr. President, that term exists in the Criminal Code, which will now be on the agenda. That's a lie. It is a lie to accuse the LDP of such a Rules of Procedure. Isn't that right, Mrs. Comic? We were critics of this Rules of Procedure. He was adopted in the previous term. It's a lie to accuse our party of undemocratic and intolerant behavior. It is true, she excluded Natasa Micic from the entire SRS parliamentary group, bullys, thugs, vandals. Look what you're saying today about your previous party. Much harder qualifications than what I just said. I've been an MP for 12 years, and I've never said a single bad word in the congregation. For twelve years, I have come across the respect of every colleague and colleague here in the Assembly, no matter which party they come from. And your former president respected me, even though I was his great political opponent. You gave me a warning because I reminded you of what you were. Do you think a few thousand dinars can erase the 20 years of agony you've condemned this country to? You didn't get any warning when you humiliated every decent man here in the undershirts at Parliament's sessions, singing and nagging while others here speak. I'm ashamed you're the president of the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7835	The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7836	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in the presentation of the previous speaker, I see that the objective justifies the means. So it makes perfect sense for him because he thinks someone is vandal, a bully to be expelled from the session of the Serbian Parliament even though they are not in the O.R., on the one hand. On the other hand, I would ask Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic not to question another's political past until he examines his own. That's the first thing. By the way, I'm not hiding that I was a member of the SRS... (President: Please do not throw away, for that is how you violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Milic, please do not address the MP during his presentation. ) One of the MPs who caused the fall of the government of Zoran Zivkovic, in which Mr Cedomir Jovanovic served as vice president.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7837	Mr. Djuric has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7838	Again, Mr Stefanovic, you injured the 107th and 109th members, you did not give a warning to Mr Arsic, directly addressed the other MP. But since we've already opened the subject of what was 10 or 11 years ago, it's quite convenient for today's topic and your insistence that conditions be created as soon as possible for an organized fight against organised crime. Some of those worst obstructions, then your joint SRS, were just aimed at not adopting special court laws, organized crime laws, and to deal with organised crime as soon as possible. If that's what you learned, I'm glad for it, but don't accuse others of what you did yourself in your ugly past.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7839	Logs of the Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Session of the Second regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were delivered to you in 2012. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to that minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 23, 30 and 31 October and 6, 7 and 8 November 2012. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 123, no one, with abstentions, voted 53 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 23, 30 and 31 October and 6, 7 and 8 November 2012. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 24, 25 and 26 October 2012. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 125, against - no one with abstentions - voted 44 of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 24, 25 and 26 October 2012. I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 1st and 5th November 2012. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 124, no one, with abstentions, voted 17 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 1 and 5 November 2012. I am voting on the minutes of the 5th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 8 and 13 November 2012. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 124, no one, with abstentions, voted 17 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the fifth session of the Second regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 8 and 13 November 2012. I am voting on the minutes of the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 13, 14, 20, 21 and 22 November 2012. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 119, no one, with abstentions, voted 13 of the 132 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 6th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 13, 14, 20, 21 and 22 November 2012. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 15 November 2012. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare that - 127, against - no one with abstentions - has voted six out of the total of 133 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 15 November 2012. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, the proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of discussions. National MP Olgica Batic suggested putting on the agenda the draft decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts related to the murder and investigation of the political background of the murder of the guard, Jakovljevic and Milovanovic, at the military facility "Karas" on Topcider. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that -48, against -no one, abstention - one, did not vote 125 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal as an emergency procedure on the agenda. The government proposed that the draft law amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda of the economic crisis, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 29 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -126, no one, with abstentions, voted 45 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The SPS parliamentary group proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 5 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 139, no one, with abstentions, voted 29 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Germany's KFW Development Bank, Frankfurt, in May, under the responsibility of the public company Elektroprivreda Srbija, Belgrade (Profession of Explosion Technology in RB Kolubara in order to increase the efficiency of thermal power plants and reduce environmental impacts), which it submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 42, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 36, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 40, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft law supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 39, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft law supplementing the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstention – no vote – 37, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment of a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre, which submitted to the National Assembly on 7 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – four abstentions – there is no, no vote – 35, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – four abstentions – there is no, no vote – 32, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 13 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group suggested that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of a declaration on the fight against systemic corruption, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 46, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 131 out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending the Law on Planning and Construction be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, v – one, abstention – one, did not vote – 50, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on incentives in agriculture and rural development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2012, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, abstentioned – voted – 159 out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on granting consent to the decision on amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2012, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one, with abstention – voted – 48, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government is, on the basis of Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on co-operation in the field of energy, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2012. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted – 159 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the laws on chambers of commerce, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 November 2012, as well as to adopt those draft laws by an urgent procedure. Does the proposer, MP Srdjan Mikovic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go. Excuse me, just to interrupt for a moment, we don't have a signal in the O.R., please let me know if we have a direct transmission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law amending and supplementing the Chamber of Commerce Act, which was adopted in 2009, whose application was delayed until the end of 2012, certain things are foreseen, which have not been done in the time laid down by law. In fact, the rules adopted under the power laid down in that law were said in the passed Law to be passed at the latest on 31 December 2010. These regulations, sublegal acts have not been passed until 2012. So he's two years behind on bringing in sublegal acts. In addition, the Law provides for a register of chambers entrusted to the Agency for Economic Registers and for the start of the work of this register, it has been planned since 1 January 2013, by adopting sublegal acts. I note, these sublaws have not been adopted. We're going to be in a situation where if by the end of the calendar year, if we don't come forward on this, that on January 1st, we're going to be in a situation where the first chambers of commerce at all, neither the existing or the future, will be able to register with the APR. It will be called into question the powers which so far have chambers of commerce, which are entrusted with the law, in terms of the issue of certificates, assurances and other credentials on credit, business and technical training of the right person, registration in the register of carriers, that the goods are not produced in the country, the fulfilment of the conditions for public transport, the reference lists on the origin of goods, the TIR Carnets, and many, not to mention, all of these are delivered in writing to all of you. President, please, if they can hear me, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7841	I ask the other colleagues to allow Mr. Mikovic to complete his presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7842	So, in any case, since the sublegal acts have not been passed until today, half of them are in December, so that there are no consequences that are difficult to correct, and I only note that on November 21st, I submitted the draft law to the procedure, that on December 10th, I gave an additional explanation, especially in terms of these public powers, and that I have finally proposed the addition of the agenda and that this be considered as an emergency procedure. I cite my proposal with the proposals of another number of MPs, who are aware of all possible negative consequences. Unless we consider this matter, and if we put that agenda item on the agenda, there is a possibility that every MP should amend the bill. If the deadlines on which they should be postponed are not these, there is a possibility, in particular, there is a possibility by those who make up the power, to determine if there is a possible delay in the application of the laws on chambers of commerce in this part. So that's why I urge you to support my proposal, to adopt the agenda by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7843	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 60, against – three abstentions – there is no, no vote – 111 out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vladimir Ivić, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), Articles 170 and 192. He proposed that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly be carried out: First Joint Principle Search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code; Proposal for a Law amending the Code on Criminal Procedure; Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutorship and a Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Judges. Another joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Encouragement of the Building Industry of the Republic of Serbia in the Conditions of Economic Crisis; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Planning and Construction; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland Waters and Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on waterway navigation and technical maintenance. Third Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KfW, Frankfurt in May, under the responsibility of the public undertaking "Electroprivred Serbia", Belgrade; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Co-operation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Issues; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Georgia on the avoidance of Double Taxation against Income Taxation and Property Taxation; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on the avoidance of Double Taxation in relation to income and property taxes; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on the avoidance of Double Taxation of Taxation in relation to Taxation of Taxation and the Property and the Proposal for a Decision on Health Insurance in the Republic. The Fourth Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of the Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2012; Proposal for a Decision on the participation of a Serbian Army member in multinational operations in 2012; Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment of a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement on Cooperation in the Area of Defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Greece; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on Co-operation in the area of defence; Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum on Understanding of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Indonesia on Co-operation in the area of Defence of the Republic of Serbia. A fifth joint single search on: Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions and a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does MP Vladimir Ilic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, no one, with abstentions, voted 42, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals to put on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 37, out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 9th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, in general. Dn e v n ir e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code; 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure; 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law; 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Judges; 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis; 6. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Germany's KfW Development Bank, Frankfurt in May, to the public enterprise "Electroprivreda Serbia", Belgrade (Project "Improvement of Explosion Technology in RB Kolubara in order to increase the efficiency of thermal power plants and reduce environmental impacts"); 7. Proposal for a law amending the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters; 8. Proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2012; 9. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2012; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment of a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre; 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Cooperation in the area of defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Greece; 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on co-operation in the field of defence; 13. Proposal for a bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on co-operation in the area of defence; 14. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Angola on co-operation in the field of defence; 15. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic in the mutual protection of classified information; 16. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters; 17. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Georgia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes; 18. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes; 19. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes; 20. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the navigation of waterways and their technical maintenance; 21. Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions; 22. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 23. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Planning and Construction; 24. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2012 Decision amending and supplementing the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. At this point, I am setting a break of 10 minutes to apply the decision on the timetable for the sitting of MPs and other persons in the large hall, based on the decision of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly on 12 December. We'll be back to work in 10 minutes. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Before we move to work on the established agenda of the session, pursuant to Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, on the basis of a joint principled review on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice and State Administration, I have also called on the sittings to attend: Dr Danilo Nikolic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, Mr Milisava Cogurić, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration, Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Normal Affairs and International Co-operation in the Ministry of Justice and State Administration and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. We are moving to work on a set agenda, i.e. a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. The word of the messenger of the people is John Palalic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7845	Mr President, Article 27. It's simple, he's been moved all day because of the vote and the whole session that he's been having, and we're starting the debate now, and it's been scheduled at ten o'clock. I ask you to give information to MPs how much will work today, whether it will work until the end of the agenda, because a lot of people are interested in hearing it, so that they can plan and about next week's course, so that we can adequately prepare ourselves, especially today, since it's already 14 hours, and we are just now starting to discuss this point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7846	As for today's session, we'll definitely be working after 18 hours. I can't tell you exactly what time it is, because we're going to work out an evaluation together when we see if the debate on these united four points can be over within a reasonable time or if we decide to continue it on Monday. As for the next session, we continue to work on Monday, by agreeing on how to mark some of the holidays that are coming next week, without the greatest number of MPs being denied the opportunity to attend a session of the National Assembly, that is to say, to respect those who celebrate and Orthodox, and later on from the ranks of the Catholic religion, so that we can agree on it together. I think we can do it in a good way. I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, on the draft law supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and on the draft law supplementing the Law on Judges. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on the 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda, and before the opening of the joint principled search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since no one has suggested a long discussion, the details of the time foreseen for each parliamentary group have been obtained in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Code on Criminal Procedure, the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Public Prosecutors and the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Judges. Does the representative of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice and State Administration want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7847	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, the Honorable Vice-Presidents and the Honorable People's MPs, at the beginning of the debate, allow me to make a few preliminary remarks concerning the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure, the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office and the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Judges. There are several laws that justify the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code. First of all, the Republic of Serbia has made certain commitments, arising from confirmed international agreements on the one hand, obligations on the basis of its membership in the Council of Europe, on the other hand, as well as obligations under EU requirements in the accession and acquisition of candidate status for membership, as regards criminal legislation. It is also important to specify that the Group of States for the fight against corruption of the Council of Europe has also adopted a report on the Republic of Serbia, and within the third round of evaluation, which contains certain recommendations for the amendments and additions of individual members of the Criminal Code, which relate to corrupt crimes. Although criminal law should be resorted to as an ultimate means, there is a reason to introduce certain new crimes, such as, say, abuses in public procurement procedures, but also to decriminalise anachronous crimes, where criminal-law intervention is not necessary, such as, say, unconscious work in business business or to intervene in some of the crimes in which a large criminal area is too wide. Instead of providing more effective criminal and legal protection, it endangers some important values and interests of citizens and society as a whole. In addition, it was also necessary to remove the inaccuracies of the legal text, as well as the failures resulting from the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code in 2009, which resulted in a serious problem in court practice. Certain interventions are also necessary in order to comply with other laws that also contain concepts of importance for the regulation of criminal offences. When it comes to individual proposed solutions, I would especially draw attention to the following. Applying the primary real principle of the law of the Republic of Serbia's criminal law to criminals abroad extends to all acts of terrorism, not only to the criminal act of terrorism directed against the constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia. This is due to the harmonisation of acts of terrorism with relevant international contracts. It also extends the possibility of applying the criminal legislation of the Republic of Serbia and when criminality is not punishable under the law of the country in which it was done in such a way that, apart from the approval of the republican public prosecutor, this possibility is also introduced in cases provided for in certified international contracts, which is particularly important in the criminal acts of corruption. Such an amendment, and in the event that there is a need to bring some new international convention into line, it will not require new amendments to the Criminal Code in that part in the future. It was carried out to specify the provisions governing the sentence of the prison in the rooms in which the convicted resides, better known as the so-called prison. Home prison, though in its essence it's a prison sentence. The reason is that there have been marked problems in the caselaw and that there has been uneven treatment because of unclear and conflicting legal provisions. In addition, it was inaccurate and a provision relating to the situation when the convicted voluntarily left the premises in which he resides, as well as a provision that was meant for the court to provide certain criteria when deciding whether he would be sentenced to maintain a prison sentence in the premises in which he resides, which he could not perform that function. The paper is also a provision that introduces compulsory parole instead of a college leave. Of course, in case the conditions are met by law. This change is in line with developed practice in countries of developed and established legal traditions, in European countries. Since there has been a significant narrowing of the application of this institute in our country, it was necessary to direct the courts towards a wider use of this institute. At the same time, it will also give a significant incentive to convicted persons to rule well at the time of the punishment, as well as to no longer commit crimes. The parole of a convicted person will depend to a significant extent on the court's assessment, whether its conduct during the course of the sentence indicates that it has been achieved by the purpose of punishment. It also introduces a mandatory difficult environment for hate crimes. Starting from relevant international documents, the objective of the new provision is to ensure stricter punishment, and thus to strengthen criminal and legal protection against individuals, particularly vulnerable social groups, whose members are victims of various crimes committed out of hatred because of their belonging. Although the general rules in the measuring of penalties already provide that the court will take into account the initiatives from which the crime was committed, and thus hate, the provision is general and does not explicitly speak of hatred as a difficult situation, nor is it prescribed as a mandatory difficult environment. It was therefore necessary to supplement the legal text and such a provision. This is another trend in the development of criminal law and criminal law in the countries of Europe. An absolute ban on the mitigation of fines for certain criminal offences, which was introduced by amendments to the Code of Criminals in 2009, has also been deleted, given that the Institute is lenient, although the General Institute has been derivated from certain criminal acts. This provision is contrary to the general provisions of the Criminal Code, which provide for the possibility of easing penalties in certain cases, such as attempts or assistance. She reported in practice a dilemma about the application of different legal provisions. In addition, it is a completely unclear criterion on the basis of which criminal acts are chosen, which prohibit the mitigation of penalties. Also, this provision came under criticism both as well as court practice, and a general opinion was adopted to remove a foreign body and anomalies from the Code. For similar reasons, provisions providing for the only possibility of tightening the fines have been deleted, i.e. the possibility to impose more severe penalties than prescribed. Since the criminal-political need for such an exception does not exist. The penalties prescribed are strict enough so that the penalties imposed in practice almost never reach the prescribed specific maximums, where even the case law has not used this possibility so far. In line with the country's recommendations to combat corruption of the Council of Europe, GRECO, a member who regulates the meaning of the term in the Criminal Code, also specify the extended concepts of the official and foreign official. In a different way, the concept of a responsible person is also defined. The most important difference with the existing solution is that the owner of the business operator is not considered to be a responsible person, unless he performs certain functions and tasks which give him the property of the responsible person. In addition, the concept of intoxicating drugs has been specified, for compliance with the other law. Finally, a reduction has been corrected in respect of the fact that the applicable legal text gives the concept of property benefit, not property as provided for so far. The concept of property would obviously not correspond to those crimes where the property is an object of the store and to which the consequences arise. In the proposed way, the concept of property benefit has been determined as well as in relevant international contracts. It has also been wiped out by the most severe form of a security threat, introduced by amendments to the 2009 Laws. This form reflects excessively repressive aspirations and has the characteristics of a verbal political delinquent. That is why it does not belong in Chapter XIV of the Criminal Code, because it requires criminal acts to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of man and citizen, not the rights of state officials and journalists. As far as judges and prosecutors are concerned, any threat addressed to them has already been incriminating the criminal part of obstruction of justice. Prior to changes and additions to the 2009 Criminal Code, the basic form of the security threat was threatened by a prison sentence of up to one year, with a harder form of imprisonment from three months to three years. Now there's a more severe punishment for it. With that in mind, it was not justified to prescribe the most difficult form made according to the executive and judicial authorities and journalists, who were threatened with prison sentences from one to eight years. The same punishment is, for example, the same punishment. Prescribed for the crime of murder on the masquerade. The question can be asked whether all other citizens are not discriminated against because it results in a feeling of security for those persons being much more valuable and significant. The circumstances referred to in the threat could be taken into account when measuring the penalty. If this is a serious threat, it could be a preparatory action for the murder of the highest state body representative. It is unacceptable that a prison of one to five years can be held for the murder of top state authorities, and if only a threat to their safety could be put at risk by up to eight years. That is, one can say the most important reason for eliminating this qualified form. The decriminalisation of the defamation of the crime was also carried out, which was a requirement of a large number of associations and professional public, especially journalists' associations. It should be borne in mind that there is a general tendency in European legislation, and that, following the recommendations of the Council of Europe, the legislative authorities of the EU Member States are equally acting. The same thing was done in Great Britain, Ireland, Estonia, partly in Hungary, in the process in other high-level legislative bodies of other EU member states. It is also present in the countries of the region. According to the recommendations of the Council of Europe, a new criminal act is prescribed to negotiate the outcome of the competition. This phenomenon is present in practice and justifies criminal and legal intervention, and in most cases it cannot be introduced under the legal description of any other crime, in the first place of the fraud. It was therefore necessary to prescribe a new criminal act that has the basic, the most difficult and the most difficult form. He was particularly incriminating and an attempt at basic form, since he would not be punished under general provisions on punishment for trial. A lower limit is also provided for the amount of cash in the petty theft, evasion and fraud, which extends the basic forms of the theft, evasion and fraud. In addition to the prescribed sentence, it will also mean that one part of these crimes will no longer be prosecuted on private charges, but on official duty. In practice, there was a noticeable increase in the conduct of a particularly small part of the theft, where decriminalisation occurred in fact, because for the damaged pursuit of a private lawsuit is a sensitive burden, so the perpetrators often calculate that the value of the taken things does not exceed the amount of 15 thousand dinars. The reason for lowering this line is also a low standard of living, because for many damaged amounts of 15 thousand dinars is not a small amount at all, one is even more than his pension. One of the most significant newspapers is the fact that the existing criminal act of unconscious work in private business is being overrun and unnecessaryly abolished, as it has been introduced in its time in an effort to provide enhanced protection to social property and as such is not familiar with any criminal law by European countries. Instead, a criminal offence is being committed to abuse of the position of the responsible person. The introduction of this crime is due to the need to make an important difference between a responsible person and an official, which has not been the case so far. Namely, the criminal offence of abuse of the official position referred to in Article 359. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia fully equalises the official and responsible person, which has no criminal political justification, because the official and responsible persons are two different entities with different powers in different areas. As the official acts in the authorities of the administration by performing his official duties, the responsible person shall carry out a particular round of operations in the management and operation of the business operator. In addition to a narrowed crime zone, in the legal description of this crime, since it is required that illegal property benefit be obtained, and not any benefit, such as the official and the regulation of some lower penalties, the narrowing of the crime zone in this crime area will also contribute to a different formulation of the provision that gives meaning to the term "responsible person", as this concept no longer covers the owner who does not simultaneously perform the tasks and function of the responsible person. A new crime of abuse in connection with public procurement is also prescribed. Given the expansion and social harm of this society, the legal description of this crime has been set quite wide. Starting from the fact that they are being misused in the area of public procurement as a rule by the participation of both the contracting authority and the tenderer, other than the person responsible in the tender, the form in which a responsible person or an official in the contracting authority appears as the executioner. It is also a more difficult form, given the level of the value of public procurement. A criminal offence is deleted to comment on court decisions, which was introduced by the 2009 Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code. It is about unnecessary incrimination that limits freedom of opinion and limits media freedom. The existence of a criminal offence depends on the court's assessment of whether a public statement in the means of public information was made in order to harm the presumption of innocence or independence of the court. This may lead to a ban on commenting in the means of public information of any court proceedings. Incorrect reporting of some of the media on some court proceedings and making inadequate statements by individuals cannot justify criminal-legal repression, nor can it address the problem of incorrect commentation of judicial proceedings in the media. Changes have also been made in connection with the crime of illicit production, holding, carrying weapons, which have created very serious problems in court practice, and which have resulted in different court proceedings. As a further problem, there has been a question of justification and equalisation of the unauthorized carrying of arms of those who have a license to hold arms with those who do not have a licence. Finally, the prescribed punishment has led to this work of gravity being more significant than that carried out using that weapon, for example in the mach murder and with which it is found. Therefore, it is necessary to make a significant difference in the prescribed penalty between those who carry unauthorized weapons and who are authorised to hold it, from those who do not have it, and to provide for a slightly lower penalty for the most severe form of this crime. A new criminal act is also being introduced to allow the abuse of asylum rights in a foreign country. The need to prescribe this crime was created to incriminate actions to help our citizens who abuse the possibility of receiving asylum in a foreign country, such as organising their travel abroad with the intention of obtaining property benefits or otherwise allowing them to abuse the right to seek asylum in a foreign country. A significant change has been made in relation to the offence of abuse of the official position, providing that the person responsible can no longer be the perpetrator of this crime referred to in Article 359(1). A criminal code, but a new criminal offence whose introduction is proposed, and because of significant differences between the concept of a responsible person and the official person, as well as the jobs they carry out. As long as the official's broad criminal and legal protection is justified, all contemporary European criminal laws know this incrimination, the situation is absolutely different in terms of the responsible person. Indeed, the existing incrimination is shown too broadly in relation to them, as it can also cover business cases carried out in accordance with the regulations governing that business. It was therefore necessary to prescribe a new criminal offence of the abuse of the position of responsible person, and in the case of a crime referred to in Article 359. A criminal code as an enforcer only predicts an official person. In line with the country's recommendations to combat corruption in the Council of Europe, the "GRECO" provisions are complemented, by extending the legal description that these crimes can be carried out not only in the context of their powers but also in relation to them. In the area of crimes against humanity and other goods protected by international law, more changes and additions have been made, and the most important are those that come from a new concept of criminal acts of terrorism. First of all, a basic act of terrorism has been established, whether directed against the Republic of Serbia, foreign states or international organisations, with numerous forms of action being carried out. This crime, as well as new acts of terrorism, such as public incentive to carry out terrorist acts, recruiting and training for acts of terrorism, the use of a deadly device, the destruction and damage to a nuclear facility and terrorist association, have been brought into line with a series of conventions aimed at preventing acts of terrorism, and in particular the 2005 Council of Europe Convention, which the Republic of Serbia ratified in 2009 and the EU Council's Framework Decision on the fight against terrorism, since 13 June 2002, which was amended by the EU Council Framework Decision of 28 November 2008. By prescribing these crimes, there is a broad criminal protection against all acts that have the character of a terrorist act or represent a preparatory action for it. Finally, I would point out that, as the initial text of this legislative proposal, the text already in the assembly procedure was used in early 2012. The Ministry of Justice and the State Administration has educated the Working Group which has examined the initial text and carried out a comparative-legislative analysis with the legislation of other countries, as well as international conventions, with which harmonisation is necessary. Also, the current text of the Criminal Code has been considered in relation to the problems that make it difficult to apply it in court practice. After preparing the work version of the text, a public debate was held during a total of eight meetings involving judges of different kinds and degrees, public prosecutors as well as other representatives of the professional public. Also, the work version of the text was available for all proposals and suggestions on the website of the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. Opinions from resolution ministries have also been produced, consultations have been held with representatives and experts from the international community. This legal text is also officially addressed to the European Commission. All suggestions have arrived and the proposals have been considered in detail. A number of them have been incorporated into the text of this legislative proposal. With regard to the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, I would remind myself that the new Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted in September 2011, that it was prescribed that the Code should enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and that it should apply from 15 January 2013, except in the proceedings for the criminal offences of organised crime or war crimes, which have been conducted before the special section of the competent court, in which case it has been applied since 15 January 2012. As a number of shortages of normative nature, which require more major interventions in the text of the Code have been observed in the current application of this Code, it is necessary to postpone the application of this Code until 1 October 2013, except in the procedures in which it is already applied, in order to prepare for the necessary amendments and additions to the text of the Code and to create conditions for the application of the amended Code. Under the Law supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, it should above all be noted that the relevant legal provisions provide for the evaluation of the work of the Public Prosecutor and the Deputy Prosecutor to constitute the basis for selection, compulsory training and resolution, as well as for the evaluation of the work being carried out on the basis of publicly published objective and uniform criteria based on applicable and comparable criteria established by the State Great Prosecutors. Also, the work of deputy public prosecutors, who were first elected, is expected to be valued once a year. Although the transitional provisions of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, i.e. amendments and additions to the law, explicitly provide that the sublegal regulations provided for by this law will be adopted within six months, and that the first evaluation of the work of the deputy public prosecutors, who were first elected, will be carried out by a permanent composition of the State Council of Prosecutors, the evaluation of these deputies has not been carried out because criteria and criteria have not been established on the basis of which the evaluation of the work of the deputy public prosecutors is carried out. Since deputy public prosecutors, who were first elected by the decision on the election of deputy prosecutors, stand out for a three-year term, with a total of 108 in the public prosecutor's system in the Republic of Serbia, and with the aim of ensuring the smooth work of public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to establish a legal basis, in order to elect these deputy public prosecutors to serve as permanent prosecutors, however. That is why it is necessary to pass this law as a special law that will regulate the situation. The same situation is also related to the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Judges. Here, as one of the mandatory conditions for selecting judges to a permanent judicial post, a preliminary evaluation of judges, who were first elected to the three-year term, is foreseen. There was also an explicit obligation to adopt an appropriate Sublegal Act of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which will regulate the criteria, criteria and procedure for the evaluation of the work of judges. It was also envisaged that the first evaluation of the work of judges, first elected, would be carried out by a permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary, or as in the previous case, but also, as in the previous case, the evaluation of the work of these judges so far has not been carried out precisely because no criteria have been established, nor the criteria on the basis of which the evaluation of the work of the judges is carried out. Since judges first elected by the National Assembly on the election of judges to a three-year term in courts of general and special jurisdiction are given a three-year term, with the aim of ensuring the smooth work of judges in the Republic of Serbia, such judges are a total of 903, it is necessary to establish a legal basis in order to ensure that these judges are elected to a permanent judicial office. Otherwise, none of the judges elected to the three-year term could be elected to permanent office. In order to ensure the timely implementation of the choice of these judges, for this law as well as for the Law supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, it is proposed to enter into force the next day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I would point out that the additions to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on Judges, which is referred to here, are minimal, but also that the working groups of the Ministry of Justice and State Administration have prepared the texts of laws containing major amendments and additions, and that these texts, too, will be found in front of the National Assembly in the course of the following year, following the acquisition of expertise and the conclusion of the public debate on these texts. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and to express my hope that the debate and the period after the debate in the National Assembly will lead to these proposed laws of great importance for the judicial authorities and their functioning in the Republic of Serbia being adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7848	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, MP Petar Petrovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, National MP Dr Milica Delevic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Balint the Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7849	Dear Mr. Minister, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in democratic countries, in regulated countries do not often change the Criminal Code. Unfortunately, Serbia seems to be not a well-organised country, perhaps not a democratic country enough or not democratic enough, and for this reason, in the past years, we have had frequent changes to the Criminal Code. I hope it gets in the way, because it's contrary to the principle of legality or legality. Citizens should know what crimes are, citizens should know what they are allowed and what is not allowed, what is punishable and what is not punishable in the Republic of Serbia, and therefore I hope that changes to the Criminal Code will not be common. We learned from the reasons that only those elements that are urgent are now changing, elements that need to be changed urgently and that they have been consultations with the European Commission, with GREC, with the Council of Europe, to comply with international agreements that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has ratified. The issue asked on the Committee on European Integration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is immediately raised – are consultations with the European Commission sufficiently? Mr. Minister has just said quite frankly that a number of European Commission objections have been put in place. We know from the past, from the past, from past governments, that very often this National Assembly has adopted amendments and amendments to certain laws, that it has boasted that everything has been agreed with the European Commission, that the proposed amendments and additions to European standards, that it is using this collokual term, and after a few weeks or months it turns out that this is not the case, so we had to go to the correctional and National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has re-changed the almost passed laws. I hope that doesn't happen in this case. That's why I'd be interested in you saying a little more in detail which objections didn't come into the bill and whether we're going to have to re-enter the situation we saw and looked at in the previous period, to re-enter changes and supplement the same law. I'd like to highlight only a few elements of the Criminal Code, elements that will change these days. I certainly think that for every commendation that will be introduced, it's a mandatory difficult environment, an institute of hate crimes. That's certainly commendable. Serbia is a multinational, multi-cultural, multi-confessional society. We have vulnerable groups in the Republic of Serbia that have not been sufficiently protected, or have not been sufficiently protected in the previous period. I hope the introduction of this new institute can change that situation, of course, for the better. Speaking of mandatory distressing circumstances, the Institute of Hate Crimes, I must point out that there is also a crime in the Republic of Serbia for a long time, causing national, religious and racial hatred and impatience in Article 317. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia. I must draw your attention, Mr. Minister, that there is an extremely small number of people who have been convicted, who have committed a crime with an element of hatred and who have been called to criminal responsibility under this member of the Criminal Code. In practice, this member of the Criminal Code is rarely applied, extremely rarely the work done is qualified as a cause of national, racial and religious hatred and impatience. I know this has nothing to do with this mandatory plighting environment, because it's a separate institute and a particularly criminal act. I want to draw your attention to this problem, but I don't think it's natural that extremely rare actions qualify as a cause of national, religious and racial hatred of impatience. We'll see how the introduction of mandatory parole will be shown in practice. We know that similar regulations exist in many EU countries. We know that this will probably lead to a little more room in prisons, which is needed in the Republic of Serbia. Sadly, this practice also points to real life from day to day. It's probably a good thing it's going to be mandatory, not optional nature, like it is today. But we will see how this institute will show itself in practice. You were talking about decriminalizing anachronous crimes. We certainly agree that there has been a decriminalization of the crime – slander, unconscious work in business. However, with the ban on commenting on criminal proceedings, I must say that there is certainly logic there, but I simply cannot resist the impression that this decriminalisation was proposed primarily because individual members of the government could freely comment on certain procedures that are under way. As for abuse of official position, I think it's a good thing this crime is separated into two separate crimes. It is not possible, of course, to mix an official and responsible person, but my question of consultation with the European Commission was about this very crime, or this separation, whether this solution was agreed with the European Commission and whether we would not have to go to correction, as we had to in the previous years. Now I have reached the key element or key elements of the proposed changes and the addition of the Criminal Code. You're assuming it's a crime of petty theft, evasion and fraud and a criminal act of robbery. I asked you a question recently, more precisely on September 27th, the current year, as long as the state of Serbia will tolerate thieving, stealing that accepts elements of organisation, and yet it is so-called. Small thefts? At the time, I said it was not natural that in a country where more than half a million pensioners receive less than 15,000 per month, in a country where the unemployment rate is 27-28%, that perpetrators of a crime - petty thefts are prosecuted on private charges, if the stolen thing is not worth at least 15,000 dinars. You correctly said in your address that this leads to an increase in the conduct of these crimes, we know it from the field, and that the perpetrators are calculating and misusing this possibility. That is why it is extremely important that the government of the Republic of Serbia has finally reacted and it is good that the proposed reduction of this limit, this censorship, is proposed. I must say, with 10,000 dinars, as far as you, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have suggested, are not a bit satisfied. We are not pleased to think that on these occasions, which I was just talking about, 10,000 dinars is a huge sum for many citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If we stop at 10,000 dinars, I think this possibility would continue to be abused by the perpetrators of these crimes. Once again, I want to repeat that this is about organized crime. It's great that the government is fighting organized crime, but I think besides what it's doing, I think. large fish, which we certainly support, should deal with these tiny fish, because people who make 15,000-20, people who are unemployed, and how much it means 10,000 dinars. We looked at previous weeks' parallel practice. We spoke to Mr. Secretary of State. We said we'd take a little study of parallel practice to see if what we've been up against for years is real, and that's the descent of this census to 5,000 dinars. I want to say publicly, I don't think it's a secret, that we, Mr. Minister, have reached an oral agreement that the SVM amendment is accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that the censorship is coming down to 5,000 dinars. Otherwise, I want to tell you that, besides our parliamentary group, a similar solution has been proposed by both the LSV parliamentary group and the URS parliamentary group. The only difference between our amendment, on the one hand, and these two amendments, on the other hand, is that colleagues have missed that there is also a privileged form of robbery, which is beyond any logic that there is this privileged form in robbery. They have not tabled an amendment to the robbery, that in that crime, as set out in Article 206(4). Criminal code, that limit lowers. That is why I think our amendment, amendment SVM, is the most complete and therefore it would be important to accept this very solution by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to comparative practice, I want to publicly thank the Library of the National Assembly, or the Research Department, because they have done a very professional study in a very short time. They have analysed the regulation from 20 countries in Europe and we have this study on page 18. I have to tell you, parallel solutions are very interesting. Let me point to only a few states, or solutions from several countries. In Austria, for example, the value limit of stolen property, below which the state does not respond, is 100 euros. I think it is very difficult to compare the economic and economic situation in Serbia and Austria. If there is a lower limit of 100 euros in Austria, then I think it is absolutely unacceptable for Serbia to be 15 and even 10,000 dinars. In Austria, however, it can't be about petty theft if it's done by breaking or using force. Now I'd like to go back to what I was just talking about. It is a very, very strange solution that there is a privileged form of crime in Serbia, because robbery cannot be without the element of violence. It's just not possible. In Estonia, a country richer both per GDP and per citizen's income than Serbia, the limit is 64 euros. There is a very interesting solution in Republika Srpska, which exists in some other countries in Europe, although Republika Srpska is not a state, but is an entity within BiH. In this country, there is an interesting solution to which every theft is being prosecuted on official duty, except for those crimes committed against spouses, close family members, when prosecuted in a private lawsuit, which is natural. In Finland, the prosecution of petty theft is based on a private lawsuit, as is currently with us, but a public prosecutor may also be involved in the prosecution. But Scandinavian countries are interesting by the fact that crime is at a very, very low level. Fifteen years ago, I was in Sweden, and I saw that there were no curtains at all, people don't put curtains on windows, they don't lock houses at all, so they're a little different than they are in the Republic of Serbia. In Lithuania, there is a crime and a crime in stealing, and so is Hungary. I'll come back to these solutions a little later. For example, up to about 180 euros in Hungary, the perpetrator is prosecuted as a perpetrator, and more than that amount is being committed by official duty. So the state responds to every theft. I mentioned Austria and Estonia earlier, and I said that the limits are 100 and 64 euros, and these are far richer countries. I also have to give the opposite example, and you'll see that there's a lot of illogicality. In Macedonia, the limit is half the average wage, so this Macedonian solution is closer to this solution that we have in the Republic of Serbia. There is a 275-euro limit in Norway, but Norway, unfortunately, is not only twice as rich as Serbia, but many times. In Russia, whose legislation on a variety of issues we like to call upon, there is a solution to which a public prosecutor prosecutes every theft by official duty, regardless of its value. It's just some examples. You've seen that I've also listed the examples that go in our favor, and the ones that don't go, to be objective. I think based on this study, which was done by the Department of Research of the National Assembly, we can conclude that it's entirely justified that we suggest that this limit in both crimes be 5,000 dinars. I also have to say that we think this is just half a solution. We are in favour of this solution that exists in Lithuania and Hungary, that under 5,000 dinars the perpetrators are being prosecuted as perpetrators. I would like to inform you that we will propose amendments to the Law on Public Order and Peace at the beginning of next year. We think it would be an excellent solution to predict a misdemeanor in the theft of up to 5,000 dinars. In this law, we have various violations, from unauthorized collection of voluntary contributions, through return activities, prophesying fate, begging or wandering. So, I think it's possible to steal as a violation as much as 5,000 dinars predict changes and additions to this law. We have to consider the fact that the citizens are gunned down and, if we stop at 5,000 dinars, they'll say, "Here, the state thinks you can steal up to 5,000 dinars." I know it has demagogy in it, but as representatives of the people, even if they are ministers or MPs, we must respect what the citizens think. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians advocates the introduction of zero tolerance in this way and that property of Serbian citizens is fully protected by the state, by the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7850	Thank you. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7851	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, respected ministers, immediately at the beginning of the discussion, to say that the NS parliamentary group will vote in favour of these legislative proposals. We feel that in many ways some things are improved. In particular, I will point out, when it comes to the prosecution's investigation, that we've been going to the event a long time before, since the previous legislative proposal was made. I'd like to start with the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code Act. I commend you to Article 3. The draft law greatly improves the existing solution in Article 45. The criminal code, since criteria are more appropriate in the way that the court is governed by decisions on the execution of prisons in the house, i.e. in the apartment, etc. Home prison. In fact, the current solution contributes to the unequal conduct of courts, which is absolutely inadmissible and is the result of just not precisely defined material and legal criteria for determining the court whether a person needs a prison sentence to serve in the office for the execution of this sentence or under domestic conditions. Also, there is no precise definition of the situation when the convicted voluntarily leaves home space designated for the maintenance of the sentence. The proposed amendments create a condition for a uniform and consistent case-law. Article 4 implements in our Criminal Code, which is accepted in a solution in modern European legislation, that, after the passage of time provided for by a law condemned by automation, it is dismissed from the further maintenance of the prison sentence, but nevertheless, it takes care of the fact that, in any case, whether this release is complete or not. We believe that the proposed solution represents a fine balance between European practice and the legal solution so far in our Criminal Code. Also, many parts of the law in Article 6 have been improved where the Criminal Code introduces the jurisdictional court's obligation to appreciate as a dwindling circumstance that a criminal offence has been committed motivated by hatred against members of certain social groups usually marginalised for these or those reasons. Unfortunately, as a consequence of everything we've been through in the last two decades, and the traumatic quasi of the transition period, from which we can't possibly get out as a society and economy, we've witnessed a large number of different crimes committed precisely because of the hatred of certain social groups. General frustration, feeling of impotence, anger, and absence of any perspective, unfortunately generates behavior that was not present in our society in some previous times and primarily among the younger population. In this respect, it is really necessary to integrate such a solution into the existing Criminal Code. I would like to highlight the specific and good solutions to Article 18. The bill's proposer has made numerous suggestions in the widest public that the limit for incrimination of a piece of petty theft comes down from 15,000 to 10,000 dinars. Mr. Minister, we are especially assessing for all of these reasons that this is very important. Article 21 introduces the Criminal Code a new crime of abuse of the position of the responsible person, instead of an anachronous and completely overcoming criminal act – unconscious work in business business, which was otherwise completely unknown in the criminal law of European states. Finally, in a clear and understandable way, there is a fundamental difference between a responsible person and an official. With the above mentioned in the case, the provision of a criminal offence in connection with public procurement is absolutely necessary in order to establish a new, far more responsible way of conduct, both potential bidders and contracting entities in the area of public procurement. Article 33 introduces a new criminal act - enabling the abuse of asylum rights in a foreign country. The current social and political situation in which the Republic of Serbia is unfortunately generating the so-called problem. false asylum seekers who have taken such a situation that our white Schengen status has also been compromised. It is therefore necessary to provide for adequate sharp sanctioning of assistance, i.e. the organisation of such activities in the criminal-law area. Article 35 modernises Article 359. The criminal code by eliminating the concept – a responsible person, brought in by making the difference between a responsible person and an official, thus eliminating the anachronity of an existing solution in the Code. Finally, Articles 41 and 44 formulate a new criminal act of terrorism in all known forms, as defined and all activities related to the organisation of incentives, training and such. These are things that we have seen as extremely good improvements in the Bill of Amendments and supplements of Criminal Law. Of course, the minister has repeatedly explained the other members, and I would no longer like to repeat all the things that are very well formulated now. Of course, like I said, we'll support this bill. I would now refer to the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, so in article 608, which is "January 15th 2013" is replaced by the words "October 1st 2013". Mr. Minister, the NS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to the debate since 12 September 2011 and if it had been accepted then, we would not have this kind of debate today. So, I wasn't lazy to get a stenogram from that assembly debate from my discussion, where we asked that this move for January 1, 2014. We even made the situation a little easier, we would have saved some month, so at the very same time, we reshaped the amendment a little bit, so that at least we could save six months and what is now to be applied, the merit of the NS that was then managed to get what was scheduled to start in September of 2012, we move those six months, so we got some pace. Of course, it would be better if it was accepted then. I'll point out some things when it comes to a prosecutor's investigation. The point of the story is that we're not giving the facts. I mean, this prosecution investigation, I'm gonna compare some things just to continental law and Anglo-Saxon law. I'll offer some solutions. For example, in America, say, the prosecution investigation doesn't exist. The investigation is being conducted by the police, in Canada as well, there are in Italy, but if we want to apply such a system, then we should eventually insert some new contents. In Italy, defence is always mandatory, there is no selecting whether the sentence is five, six or 15 years in prison, which is in our criminal law and in some other mandatory. In these systems where police are conducting an investigation, it is always mandatory to defend and the party in the process is placed in a somewhat equal position. That's the fundamental difference. Let's take whatever's favourable and good for the state. I repeat, guilty confession is one good model, but we can't exactly seal the party and we're here to say that everything is great, that everything is fine. However, nothing will be good, because a mixture, as foreseen in some earlier legal proposals of Anglo-Saxon and continental law, will lead to certain chaos in the judiciary. One of the biggest problems with this prosecution investigation is the finding of material truth in criminal proceedings. Therefore, the abandonment of the principle of establishing material truth in criminal proceedings is essentially immoral because the truth in criminal law cannot be observed beyond the general context of the relationship between law and morality. Most citizens expect the truth, both within the framework and as a consequence of the criminal proceedings. Such truth often has historical significance. So, as I said, the basic objection is, the devaluation of the principle of truth and the full adversation of the main search with, of course, minimising the role of the criminal court. So, then, we had such legal proposals through the submission of amendments. We are pleased that during that period we managed to move through the amendment to apply this legislative proposal and now we see that we were absolutely right, that the amendment that we submitted to go on in 2014 was absolutely right. I'd only ask the minister, if he can hear me more, for one problem at the end of this discussion of mine. So I would refer to the fact that for too long, the presidents of the courts in the primary and senior courts are in V.D. That it should be dealt with urgently. I'd like to draw your attention to the King's primary court, where I come from. The basic court suffered severe consequences during the earthquake. One of the objects that is absolutely, practically not solved, and the conditions are very bad for work. I would like to invite you, as I have called upon the previous minister to come to the King, to visit this basic court. Some funds have been provided, but really small and that will not solve the problem. I'd like to invite you on behalf of the citizens of the Kings who are going to the Basic Court and the employees in it, to find the opportunity to come and visit this court as soon as possible. I thank you for your discussion and repeat that the NS will support these legal proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7852	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7853	Just to look back at what you last said, by the end of the year a visit was planned not only by my own, but also by the State Secretary from the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, the Basic and Higher Court in the Kingdom. We know that it is working in extremely difficult conditions and we will give our maximum to bring the court into a state that is acceptable to work, but of course not according to the system to just patch up something, but to enter into some long-term investments that will lead to a decent and dignified way.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7854	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Spasojević. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7855	I thank the Minister and that the citizens don't think something was set up, I really didn't know about it. On behalf of the citizens and employees of the Court of First Instance and the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7856	The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7857	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Minister, State Secretary, today when the fight against corruption and crime is under way that we welcome, and for which DHSS has fought backwards for years, as among other things, and the SPO, as well as the dramatic consequences that have often been seen in the open rematch of all those forces for whose arrests the public is looking forward to, this Parliament is today discussing a proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code, which I consider probably as most of you to be one of the most important, if not the most important law of a country. What is its significance, there is no need in particular to stress, because the Criminal Code represents one barrier that protects the basic values of each individual, each of us, including our society itself, the basic principles and the basic postulate, which should enable the release of its creative potential and the protection of the rights of all people. What is common knowledge is that punishment is a mark of criminal law, as well as a theory as a practice. They know very well that punishment as a repressive means should be applied, and in the end, only extremely, extremely exceptional, because one of the basic principles, a modern, civilized society, is that the social system of values should be protected, primarily by some other means, and only then in the last line, the last instance when an individual cannot act otherwise, then a penalty should be applied. I'm afraid our country back in the years is not at all sure what the values are that need to be protected, so it can't answer the question of what these crucial values are, which require criminal legal protection and how strong this criminal legal protection should be. Since the state has not shown its citizens the principle of protecting fundamental values for at least the last 20 years, we are coming into a situation where citizens are increasingly less trusting in this country, that the judicial system has been destroyed year by year, so that even in the judicial system, they believe in less and less, and who are literally, ultimately, owners, and many have bled for the existence of this, but not these countries, not this kind of justice. That is why every time a review is launched before this Parliament and the bill is found, that is, in the debate, the Criminal Code, we must bear in mind and remember one simple thing, which is that, before examining the Criminal Code, it means reviewing all the fundamental values of our society that the Criminal Code should ultimately protect. I will give my judgment on the proposed amendments and additions to both the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, in my further part of the exhibition, but I also remind you that as well as the state and society, we do not have this built system of values that I have already talked about and that would be recognizable, clear and unquestionable to our citizens. We do not have a consensus as a society on what is unimpeached and what it needs to protect without exception, for which protection will and prescribe dramatic sanctions that give rise to fear and the potential fear of anyone who wants to bring down those values. I'm afraid that for decades we've been moving backwards in the opposite direction, and so it never happens that we actually have a social consensus about what the state needs to protect its punishments, and that's why the penalties are prescribed, but it happens the other way around. First, there are some troublesome problems that such a collapsed state further collapses and leads to an ever greater decade, and then the state realizes that these problems are indeed being solved. I don't think we're gonna get anywhere along those paths. On the occasion of the proposed amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, I also have praises and regrets, which, of course, I have given my position in part and through a number of amendments that I have submitted to this proposal. The promoter suggested that a provision be deleted by which the person who reported corruption was returned to what it had given in the name of corruption. If we delete that, we'll show again that in the system of values we're actually wandering around with some kind of blindfold. This is because by erasing the very provisions that have only been living in our legislation for a few years, the state has shown that it is not even uniform in the view of whether reporting corruption or whether it is just reporting corruption should be stimulated or destimulated. Since this rule was adopted in our Criminal Law, citizens have just gone to the state authorities with the awareness that if an official asks them to bribe 100 or 200 euros, if they give the bribe, then go to the police and report it, and the police find that 100 or 200 euros, then they take away, the citizens knew that the amount they once and half of their salary or half of their pension would be paid back. Despite this awareness that has come into life and is yet to be stimulated, today the promoter proposes to delete such a provision. When the case happens to a citizen who does not know that the rule has changed, and many ordinary Serbian citizens will not know that such a legal provision has been changed, there is nothing left but that he is scrambling his own state, because until yesterday something else, another rule, has been in force, he has reported it well on purpose and has not reported it, no one would even know that the official has just been corrupt. Instead of rewarding such a citizen who reported corruption, he would actually be punished under the bill, for example by half the salary or half the pension he invested to report corruption, such proposed provisions would not be returned to him. I'm not going to question whether it's good or bad, and I'm going to go into that debate in particular when I talk about my amendments, but you have to keep in mind, if once the death penalty is lifted you can't bring her back again. If one rule is broken, you cannot return it again, because you have just changed the system of values and set up a new one. The same thing is with almost every other provision of proposed changes and additions, so if we have introduced the principle that drug dealers and rapists can't be relieved, we can't just change that principle. I fully understand the reasons set out by the applicant for these examples, but the promoter must bear in mind and in mind that his opinion is neither uncut nor majority. We need to be seen as opposition, too. I think at this point, at this point, minority, when an opinion, for this very reason, doesn't win most of the criminal law, we can't just change the provisions of the Criminal Code, because they became part of our society that criminally rights protects our sanctions and the values our fellow citizens trust. In addition to all this I have stated, it is the fact that this law abolishes slander as a felony. You know for yourself, as I know, most lawyers here, but also many wrongdoers, that it is from a criminal political point of view, can be either right or wrong, depends on what attitude advocates and opinions are divided. Nevertheless, the principle by which journalists should not be exposed to criminal proceedings for their own words has been imposed as a system of values in our society for some time and when imposed as such, the Criminal Code follows that value. That value has been slowly built for a decade, it hasn't been introduced since recently, and would eventually experience its culmination by changing the Criminal Code in that part. It is therefore wrong to view criminal legal provisions only from a statistical point of view. Instead of thinking, I appeal not only to this government, but also to any future government and you as a minister of justice, any one, that as a value, you always promote the principle by which criminal legislation can be extremely changed, because every change in criminal law, we change the entire system of values, and if the system of values changes lightly, then the value of a society changes, and that means that we as our system of values are not even loose, we are very vague, confusing, as such untrustworthy, and we do not deserve the trust of those people who live their lives by relying on a better tomorrow or in some better system of values. Those who have no confidence in such a system, become either criminals, unemployed, alcoholics, something fourth or fifth, doesn't matter, but what hurts most, a good part of them goes to the white world looking for a system of values that they believe and deserve their trust. The Christian Democratic Party of Serbia, as well as the SPO, are parties that respect certain values and do not give up. That's why we're always on our way to resisting temptation, and in that sense, I might be immodest, but I'm going to say that there are a lot of people who need to look up to us, because then this country would be a far happier country. Many times we warned, stepped up, brought up many criminal affairs, when a good part of them had no courage, and the other part was not allowed to carry them out, because he was involved in the same criminal activity. I will be critical in this place, where I think there is criticism for places, and I will commend and be constructive where we believe that we can contribute to our solutions. Accordingly, I will commend the regulation of certain new crimes, especially the introduction of a criminal offence in connection with public procurement. Personally, I believe that the billmaker was supposed to introduce much bigger, in my opinion, dragon penalties, but for the very reason that this is about a new crime. This should be supported and, to that end, I have not even submitted an amendment to it. Also, I think it is extremely good that it is forbidden to negotiate sports competitions and that this ban is now being lifted into a rank that is particularly protected by criminal law, so it is being introduced as a new criminal act and in this sense I support it, but I personally think that this good idea should be defined more precisely, which I am in the amendment that you will be able to read and see. Despite the proposal, however, it stated that the practice of European countries is that, I quote, it is almost automatically approved of conditional leave in the event of a special prevention. I believe that such a solution is extremely bad, and I believe that it cuts with the basic postulate of our Serbian system of values, which is according to principle -- a sinner can be forgiven, but a criminal cannot be forgiven, a criminal should not be forgiven. In order to preserve this advantage, I have proposed an amendment that will allow the ordinary sinner to determine a conditional release by automatedity, but the one who committed the most terrible crimes. The most monstrosistic crimes or any crime that is extremely difficult cannot be determined by automaticism by a conditional discharge, but the judge should determine it, by predetermining whether the conditions are met, not only the conditions of special prevention, but also whether the conditions of general prevention have been met and whether such a single criminal act has produced strong social dissuasion. If it did, then only society has shown us that it has expressed one value that criminal law must uncut to protect, regardless of whether a convict of such, say, works in prison has improved, as if it were a washing machine, so call the master, he's done, and now he can be paroled. I don't think he can do that. Simply put, unless a criminal had mercy, I don't know why the state would have mercy on him. So, wherever it comes to those crimes, where it's not about such crimes, so, where there are minor crimes, the state should express mercy, it should forgive, but only if all circumstances justify such a thing. I don't think the promoter is right when he's establishing automation, and I don't think that that word of automation is appropriate for criminal law at all. After all, although this is a topic for some other law, such as the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions, you will agree that these two laws are extremely connected, we cannot boast of good resociation of prisoners, even on the contrary. Our prisons function in such a way that it is likely that the law will also contribute to the further training of the convict for other works than he will be resociated, unfortunately, but that is the case. You know as well as I do that only that society of equal chances can resociate, so according to this, you also know that modern Serbian society, unfortunately such society is not. One more thing in this law, I will commend, because I think it should be commended, is the amendment of Article 336b of attitude 2, which is a criminal offence, the obstruction of justice is extended, so that it can also be applied to a lawyer. That you don't get me wrong, I don't commend this law because I'm a lawyer by profession, but because I've made this law propose to change the system of values I've been talking about. By proposing such a change in that crime, it means that in our society, what DHSS, like the SPO, has been talking about for years, is that there are four pillars of justice that are equally important, that's the prosecution, that's the judiciary, that's the Ministry of Justice, but that's the law. I therefore commend this proposed solution, and when this attitude is deeply rooted as a value in our system, and the amendment of the Criminal Law to that end is exactly the first step towards this and very important, then the condition will be that one day the lawyer becomes fully equal to other judicial elements in Serbia and that, as such, it is further reformed, so that it can bear that part of the responsibility that comes to it in the judicial system, naturally and falls. That's my position as MP, so as a politician and as president of an opposition party. As a lawyer by profession, I can say that this change of law, which makes lawyers equal to judges, I understand as the kind of responsibility that every lawyer has to justify, because if the state protects lawyers, then lawyers must also protect the state. On the other hand, I am somewhat sorry that the legislator did not incur such a position in the whole of this proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Law, such as in the part relating to the possibility, i.e. the inability to ease the sentence. I would like to draw attention to the fact that for some practical questions, which I find extremely important, the promoter did not keep enough accounts. In fact, there has been insufficient consideration for the draft law on the real jurisdiction of the court and the problems that this judiciary is dealing with backwards, as well as for the achievement of the idea of justice in general. The fact is that our courts are overcrowded and I don't think there's any need to discuss it further. It also makes it absurd that some of Serbia's judges, which Serbia should have, have compared to the number of judges Austria has and by observing the number of inhabitants and by observing the country's surface. It is clear to all of us that Austria, for example, has no part of the problem that our judiciary has. It is clear that Austria does not have a controversial privatisation as the country of Serbia has, that there is no crime rate like we do, that there is no mass layoff of workers who then remain unspent, that it has a land-based library system that has been built centuries back. Serbia, of course, does not. There are various inspection and other services that have been causing many problems there for decades. After all, these problems, as far as our country is concerned, are regularly spilled and regularly fall on the shoulders of the court in the last truth that needs to be solved. When Serbia began reforming its economy, when it started reforming property-legal relations, employment relations, capital relations and everything else, it did not take care that these changes would lead to a number of disputes. So, for example, the dismissed workers buried the courts with lawsuits. Privatisations have caused a dramatic increase in the number of court proceedings, both criminal and litigation proceedings. The return of the seized land was re-engaged by the state apparatus, and the state apparatus is incapacitated and wrong again, so the citizens are suing him again, etc. And we're going into a vicious circle that we can't get out of in the end. When it comes to our judiciary, I must honestly say that all those reforms that were carried out within us have proved to be the generator of mass court proceedings. If we had not had enough sense or knowledge so far, we would not have gone into these reforms until the judicial network was strengthened, until the number of judges was determined and the number of judges increased to that number so that they could do their job effectively, that they could judge effectively and that they could act in good time. So we need to understand that a large number of court proceedings are not due to the whims of our citizens, but is the result of major changes in society, resulting in citizens feeling a number of injustices which have largely been addressed in courts. It's the overcrowding of the courts. The crowded courts on the one hand, a large number of mistakes, have caused a huge number of mistakes in their judicial decisions. On the other hand, there has been an enormous increase in the number of court proceedings, and the possibility of abuse has increased itself, as it is easier to control that judge who runs 50 court cases than those he has 500 and more in his work. This resulted in disproportionately long procedures without any reasonable duration. Of course, this problem in the Serbian judiciary is difficult to solve. We all know that the more orderly the state is, the smaller the number of court proceedings per capita. It's not any philosophy, it's a very simple conclusion that comes from all of this. The number of court proceedings that are brought before the courts today is just about how unsettled our society is. I hope it goes the way of his arrangement. (President: Time. Here, I'll be done soon. I also welcome that the bill's proposer had the desire to reduce the property threshold for the crime of petty robbery, but the reduction of the property threshold will lead to a reduction in the number of criminal proceedings in which the provisions on a reduced procedure are applied, while increasing the number of procedures in which a regular procedure is tried, as, for example, paragraph 1 provides for a two to ten-year sentence, and for Article 4 of the prison sentence of three years. If we lower that property threshold that makes the difference between item 1 and item 4, that means that the number of regular procedures will increase, and the number of shortened procedures will be reduced. On the other hand, it is undeniable that the higher courts have greater authority than the basic courts, that the judges of these courts are more trained and experienced, etc., and precisely and in this sense I have suggested, you will see this in the amendment, an increase from 10 to 12 years in order to establish the jurisdiction of the higher courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7858	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7859	I'm sorry, I only have one more sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7860	You've been talking for 21 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7861	I only have one more sentence. Let me finish. Thank you. I would like to order from this place that any fight against corruption and crime will be supported by both the DHSS and the SPO. When it comes to the proposal to amend the Criminal Code, I want to believe that every crime will be punished, that the state will have no mercy on criminals, and precisely for that purpose, I have submitted amendments to that end, not to criticise or quantity instead of quality, but as an opportunity to contribute to a more quality and effective and meaningful legal solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7862	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a regular break of one hour. We'll be back at 4:30. Also, according to Article 87(2). Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will continue its work after 18.00 hours because of the need to propose acts from the agenda as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is by MP Mirna Kosanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7864	Dear Chairman, representatives of the ministry and respected fellow MPs, I would like to point out that there are certain obligations for the Republic of Serbia, arising from the international agreements, as well as the EU requirement in the accession process, in the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code. For these reasons, it was necessary to make certain changes, in that sense by introducing some new crimes, which would decriminalise some of the existing crimes and remove certain inaccuracies of the legal text, as it existed. As far as these new crimes are concerned, it is very important to note that the validity and application of the criminal legislation of the Republic of Serbia has been extended to perpetrators of a crime of terrorism, which has also been managed outside of the constitutional order and security of Serbia, if there is an international contract. In addition to the existing crime and the nature of the crime, as it is made up of the law, there are new acts of terrorism, which are a public incentive to commit terrorist acts, recruiting and training to commit terrorist acts, use of a deadly device, destruction, damage to a nuclear facility, terrorist association. This type of action is in line with a series of conventions aimed at preventing acts of terrorism, which was also the reason for the legislator to intervene in this regard. The newspaper of this code is that when measuring the penalty, it introduces a mandatory burden on the crimes committed by hate, which means that in the event of recognition of such motivation when giving the offence to the perpetrator, more severe punishment will be provided. This will strengthen criminal and legal protection against individual vulnerable groups, which are usually as well known as targets for committing such crimes and with an initiative recognised as hate. Instead of an existing criminal act, unwitting work in business, an act of abuse of the position of the responsible person is being introduced. This is because there is a difference between an official and a responsible person, because these persons have different powers in different areas. The official shall act to the authorities, for example, the authorities of the administration, while the responsible person shall carry out a particular circle of business in the functioning of the business operator. So there's a significant difference in their position. Also, there is a new criminal offence in connection with public procurement, as the legislator, given the harmfulness and enlargement of this part, as well as a whole series of abuses, was to be included in this section by the contracting authority, i.e. an official as an orderer and bidder, by making a qualified form of work the level of value of public procurement. A new crime is to allow abuse of asylum rights in a foreign country. The incrimination of this work is the result of extended activity to help our citizens who abuse the possibility of receiving asylum in a foreign country. These actions relate to the organisation of their journey and in other ways to enable abuse of the right to seek asylum in a foreign country. The result of such a crime, or the conduct of such a crime, is inconceivable for the status of our country, as well as for the visa-free regime that has been approved. In the part of receiving and giving bribes, the legal description is expanded, since the possibility of doing the work is incriminating, not only in the context of its powers, but also in relation to it. The newspaper of criminal law is that the crime of slander is decriminalized. In fact, it's an act that disappears from the Criminal Code. The reason for this is a large number of demands from all associations, the professional public, especially journalists associations, who have appealed that this is an anachronous crime. The legislator has now deleted this part from the text of the law. In addition to the new crimes mentioned and the abolition of the existing acts, it is a matter of removing the accuracy of the legal text, so let's say that it is projected as a lower limit as regards the amount of money, the crime of petty theft, evasion and fraud, which extends the basic form of the crime. This will mean the possibility that these acts will no longer be prosecuted under private duty, will be in the jurisdiction of the public prosecutor. It is not that the work will not be prosecuted at all as could be assumed from some exposures, but only in case of greater value will the prosecutor be involved. The reason for moving the border, from 15 to 10,000, is low living standards and average earnings in Serbia. Chase is done on official duty. The Republic of Serbia has started the process of systematic harmonisation of national legislation with EU legal assets. This process was improved in 2003 by the adoption of a large number of laws and sublaws, and many standards have also been taken over into the domestic legal system. Unfortunately, we have witnessed poor judicial reform, which has stopped the reform process and deeply reversed the judicial process. The consequences will be visible in our judicial system for many years. The European integration process is to bring domestic legislation into line with EU law. In the Republic of Serbia, many regulations have been in place, which have been created in different stages of state order. Many regulations and certain areas are regulated or under-regulatory or are regulated by non-compliant norms, which opens up a space for one legal uncertainty, which leads to the exercise of rights and obligations, slows down economic activities, increases costs and also a growing grey economy, as well as a boost to corruption. The continued improvement of the legislative process is one of the most significant instruments for managing social change and the principle of rule of law, as well as trust in the institutions of the state. Security for citizens as well as for the economy is a prerequisite for legal certainty at all. What has been presented and related to the appropriate changes to existing legislation, which are the way in harmonising our legislation with the Council of Europe and international agreements, was crucial. For these reasons, the SDPS will support the text of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7865	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7866	Dear President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as this debate began today at the beginning of this session, I expected the hall to be full to the night. At least according to your announcements. Now I see that the benches are half-empty, especially half-empty or empty on the side of the ruling majority, and it seems to me that the MPs' benches, as far as I can see, are fighting corruption on their own, given that they are being inserted, and that their owners are not in the hall. I'm asking you to solve this problem. I followed the ministers of your very sharp, inspired and determined media exposure in the last few days, especially when you were talking about fighting corruption. Then I expected you to come before this parliament with much more serious and much more concrete changes to criminal legislation, some other laws focused on fighting corruption. You did it, reading the consistent text of the reasoning of the law that we got a few days ago. In some parts you mentioned the fight against corruption and I think it is not disputed and that we will agree that most of the amendments to the legislation, above all to the Criminal Code that you propose, are either not focused on the fight against corruption or there is no concrete, direct link to the fight against corruption. Most of your reasoning was not about improving the conditions of creating an institutional framework for a much clearer, more concrete, more serious fight against corruption, to curb those roots that, as you know, are most important. Where is the link between crime, those who are prone to corruption and the state, its apparatus, its discretionary and different other powers, politicians who work in the state and highly ranked civil servants. I think there is no dispute between us or in the public of Serbia that these are the essential roots of corruption, and that another kind of generator of corruption, above all, rests in that part of the disorder, the temporaryity of the institutions of our country, the one general provision that we will all agree on as well. I don't know what this is any more about changing criminal law, material-guilty law over the past few years. Last debate was just over a year ago, not entering this place if all the provisions that were then introduced into criminal law were good or not, obviously not. For a year after that, you have come with new changes, which are once again partial, again limited, and you are already announcing to us some broader, more serious, more radical changes to the Criminal Code in the coming months. So a few things, a few subjects can be separated, when it comes to these, as I would say, partial, partial and jumping changes to the Criminal Code. Some standards are certainly indisputable. The Liberal Democratic Party welcomes and supports the way acts related to terrorism are arranged in this law. There's no dilemma. They are now in a much better and more quality way in line with international requirements or international legislation, and it is certainly very important. The Liberal-Democratic Party supports and introduces, for the first time in a more serious way, and hate crime categories, in this case as mandatory difficult circumstances, and that is something that is certainly very important in our legal way, but above all I would say in public life and in the political system. I believe that, if the law is adopted, as is usually said, or our judiciary, if it is political will, in the coming months after the adoption of this law, it will be much more rigorous, much stronger to pursue all those who encourage or commit crimes that are inspired by hatred, than those that are inspired by impatience or hatred towards the faces of different national, ethnic, racial, and to what was the source of violence in our society in the past few months, as is repeated every year in late September, in early October, when we have great uncertainty about whether a group of our citizens will be able to use their civic, constitutional right, to express their opinion and commitment publicly. I have to tell you, there are a lot more provisions in the newest criminal code that I don't agree with. We do not belong to those political parties who think that you have done this very important thing by redecorating the crime of abuse of your official position in a good and acceptable way. I'm going to try to explain to you why we think so, which is why what you've done will not contribute and sharpen the state's edge in the fight against corruption, but it will make it weaker, and the impression of this struggle, even more unfavourable, even more uncertain and untrustworthy, as it was in some previous years. In fact, in the light of what you have been saying in the past months, it seems to me that I have followed it closely, at no time have you fully accepted the uncontested idea that the criminal act of abuse of official position, as it existed in our legislation, absolutely no longer exists and that it has many adverse consequences. Very often it is said that the most important adverse consequence is that this work is too wide-ranging, which is incorrect, which opens up space for political abuses, manipulation. Mr. Cvian air-headed. I'm sure, I know we agree. That is very important. It's a very serious objection to this part, both in the past and today. But there is another very serious problem with the crime of abuse of official position. Since the definition is so broad, since there are no elements in it that need to be necessary in such criminal acts, it is a determination of what is good or damage, or a determination that it must be property, because there is no word of intent, because it has no idea of opposition, then it is to the police and prosecutors, and above all, in the past years and so on, it is absolutely simple to concentrate on the pursuit of this act, to collect the minimum evidence necessary for the prosecution to do so, and not to do what is more useful to the state and society, to focus on their action being much more concrete, much more detailed and to prove some more serious and more concrete criminal act. You can, practically, at any abuse of your official position, as it exists in our legislation, if you have real abuses to prove someone else, more serious, more concrete action, that this procedure is more doubtless and that half of the court proceedings are closed by acquittals, that we have additional public anxiety and a sharp decline of trust in the work of the state authorities, in the work of those who have the ambition to praise the political will to fight corruption, but also in the work of our judicial authorities. It's one of the key problems in our judicial system not for the last few years, but for the last few decades. What did you do at this point? You practically separated the works, pulled out of the crime scene from Article 359 of the abuse of official office, responsible persons, and made a new crime out of it. The rest of the abuse of official position remains absolutely identical. So for those who are not responsible, but are officials in the classical sense of that word, the prosecution for the act of abuse of the official position will be absolutely the same as so far. Perhaps I could accept that as your principled determination that you kept the same provisions in this new member. That'll be Article 234. However, this crime of abuse of the position of the responsible person will differ from the criminal act of abuse of the official position, because, in the case of abuse of the position of the responsible person, the person responsible for taking advantage of his or her position or authority, by exceeding the limits of authority or by failing to carry out his/her duty will obtain to himself or another natural or legal person an anti-legal property benefit or other property damage. So there's illegality here and there's a measure of benefit, that is, damage. You don't have that in the section of Article 359. Secondly, how did you handle the sanctions on both of them? From the way you've made a range of penalties, it seems that abuse of a responsible person's position seems to be much less likely to be socially dangerous than it is to abuse an official position. Please, the ranges are not the same. For the basic form, it is part of the abuse of the position of the responsible person, and in order for the citizens to understand us, it could be, for example, less or more known businessmen who create abuse of the official position, i.e. in a corrupt relationship with politicians, representatives of state authorities, etc., not to mention specific names. For the basic form, the sentence is from three months to three years. In Article 359 for those who are not businessmen, but are officials, the sentence is from six months to five years. For the first difficult form, if property benefit has been obtained over 450 thousand from six months to five years for responsible persons, from one to eight years for officials. For the third form, it's from two to ten years old. In Article 359, I think it was even a change in one of the previous amendments to criminal law, a penalty much more serious, from two to 12 years. Those who are lawyers know that this is not only a difference of two years, that this has consequences on the whole series and on the application or inability to apply a whole series of legal institutes in criminal law and criminal proceedings. The second or third in your inconsistency, i.e. what assures us that all of what you are announcing as a fight against corruption is, in fact, not a matter of serious, designed strategy, but of individual cases, individual changes in criminal law is the issue of introducing an anti-corruption act that you call abuse in connection with public procurement. There is no doubt that this work is important in the fight against corruption and that it is good that it is introduced into our criminal legislation. However, I would say that this work is incomplete in relation to what this country needs. You predict the responsibility, i.e. punishment or responsible persons in the company that make the offer based on false data. You see, Mr. President, the Criminal Code, even the one proposed by your coalition, uses the legitimate term "false data". I can see that this is obviously not an insult, when it comes to the text of the Criminal Code, or which, in agreement with other bidders, tries, as it is commonly said, to set up public procurement, to set up a tender, etc. You are also predicting, and of course there are no situations that are most dangerous and which are the biggest problem of corruption and abuse in public procurement, which is how public procurement is planned, in which they are planned, why are they so large? We believe, no matter what the fight is against, as I would say, concrete crimes, or violations of the law in public procurement, and that is a kind of danger. Another kind of danger is that through the planning and public procurement process, businesses are being set up, money is being drawn from the state. There is much greater damage, several times, not to say ten times bigger than in those cases of direct or concrete violation of the law in the public procurement process itself. This member, as you predicted, does not solve the case. Maybe it could be a situation combined with some other parts, with a part of the trade impact, etc., but it's not clear from this. What made us so insistent today on the need for MPs in this House, MP groups, in particular the ruling majority's parliamentary group, to support the proposal for a declaration on the fight against systemic corruption, proposed by the LDP, and what, for reasons unknown to me, did you refuse to do? Because we would thus get a list of ten very concrete steps, very concrete changes to the law, which the National Assembly would make as a request, with a very public and specific deadline before the government, expecting that the Serbian government, which is the only one able to do so in a fully and legally valid manner, propose to this Parliament. In that declaration you found some of the very important anti-corruption measures, which would also help you integrate into this law and into some other segments of the so-called ". the fight against corruption. It's one, for example. our initiative or our request to impose a criminal offence on the criminal code of abuse of state aid and state subsidies. In addition to these problems of huge waste of money, depletion of the state and looting of citizens, if you want these popular dictionaries, through excessively large public procurements, or unnecessary public procurements that are made very often, another part of the problem is the abuse of what we call state aid, regardless of whether it's a direct budgetary subsidy or what is some other kind of grant from the state budget. It's been as long as you want in the past year, and that's what's happening today. It's a problem with this kind of fight against corruption, which has been taken out, which is limited to one segment of society, and completely neglects what is the root of corruption. The root of corruption is not only a direct violation of the law within the state, the root of corruption is the modelling of a political and economic system that allows such a thing to be done. A thousand examples can prove that. You can be very persistent and prosecuted, I am not talking about large representatives of the monopoly or representatives of large capital, but about tens of thousands of small businessmen, medium businessmen, entrepreneurs in Serbia, because they are unable, or some of them do not want to pay contributions, to regularly pay for moves, etc. and show them on TV every day. Until you allow the same consistent and harsh pursuit for the same things that state companies do, social enterprises, and actually politicians who buy either social peace or political peace in this way, you will not be able to plead and fight corruption seriously. Secondly, in the conduct of the 3rd offence in connection with public procurement, you say – if the work described in Articles 1 and 2 of this article has been done in connection with public procurement, the value of which exceeds 150 million dinars, that is almost a million and a half euros, the penalty of one to ten years has been threatened. So a million and a half euros is not such a small amount, many, or most of the public procurement, especially when they are artificially divided into parties, is far below a million and a half euros. There's a penalty from one to ten years. I just showed you an example from another part, though, it's an asset benefit, but if it's more than 450,000 dinars, that's 4,000 euros, it's going to be fined by a prison of one to eight years. Where there's greater danger. Where should I offer a sharper sanction? By the way, you're doing this on a proposal to amend the Criminal Code, which you specifically insisted on in your explanation and you say that there is a lot of illogicality in the current criminal legislation, that it is often more difficult, more severe sanctions for actions that are less important or less dangerous, or are not even finished. But you have to understand, you were talking about criminal politics, the context of a society where such initiatives were launched. By proposing amendments to the Criminal Code to abolish that provision that was entered last time, I made a mistake earlier, last changes were in 2009 and not in 2011, when a fine for a whole series of crimes was banned. Then in your explanation you say, I seem to quote exactly what kind of relationship they can be, what they said, is that, for the act of rape and for the act, illegal crossing the state border. I must tell you that, let's say, that amendment was introduced into the law at the time when our public was caught up in examples of trial and judgment, which were below the limit of every minimum. I'm not just talking about the issues of the legal minimum, I'm talking about the issues of the least ethical and moral standards. That's why such a squad was introduced into the law. If you don't think there was a reason there was such a ban on all acts, then you could rule out acts that you don't think are that important or so dangerous. No, you've deleted the whole point of view, or point of view, that some acts in the Criminal Code are absolutely forbidden to relieve punishment. We have proposed four amendments to the Criminal Code and I hope you will accept some of them. They concern, above all, members of 359 and these new acts that you introduce as abuse by a responsible person. It's the only way to get any credibility back to what you're doing right now. I urge you once again that, if you weren't politically able to do so today, that in the coming days we start to talk seriously about what LDP is proposing as a broader concept. We've done our first draft code on alarming. I know your ministry is working on it. You announced a law for the first half of February. We already have some work text and we can talk about how to improve it without any ambition to monopolize that fight as it seems to me, you do sometimes. Let's do a new concept of state aid law. I've already explained how money is poured out in this way. When we start doing that, then it'll become clear links between politicians and crime and then it won't be possible and it won't have to be on television to speculate and insinuate on the subject. They'll always be able to prove a clear connection. Those who are guilty may be held accountable, but for such a thing there must be a seriously organized system. Solutions can't be ad hoc and can't be directed, exclusively or predominantly, towards political campaigns. Our proposals include the reorganisation of police, the reorganisation of the prosecution, the reorganisation of courts, in a very similar way as we did in 2001-2002, when the best segments were made, I see that you don't like Mr Selakovic, but then the best segments of the judiciary in this country that you're using today - courts or greater for war crimes, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, the Greater, the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crimes... (President: Time. I'm finishing up very quickly. You came to power for harsh criticism of such a model. You were even sharper when you were in another political party ten years ago, but today what you're doing at this point, you're only doing thanks to these shifts that were made, to those people who were working, to those people who were very often political, and even to the representatives of your political party, were exposed to very difficult and serious attacks. That's why our initiative is this way. I hope there's still a chance we can talk about this in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7867	Thank you. I just wanted to say, since you mentioned me, that would be clear why I said that. It is not a lie that offends itself, but it is not equal to the judgment of the court, which determines whether something is true or false, or false, which has the right to do so under the law, which is then the judgment of the court and judgment of the MP in this room that something is false, because it has no right to do any of the people's messengers. Addressing such terms and arguments may offend others, such as that, not to mention the whole case now so as not to cause a series of replicas. I thought it was an offensive expression in the context of how it was said. That's why I thought, not the word lie, the word lie exists in our language, it exists in our legal system, and it's absolutely not controversial. To speak to the messengers of the people and to say, I do not believe that either of us has the right to judge whether something was false or not false. That can be determined in court. When a court comes to such a verdict, I agree that it is legitimate, especially when it is used in the sense of the law, which we have mentioned. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7868	Two things. So you're wrong. On the one hand, we don't have to talk about court. You had it last week, that provision was deleted, the reason for the removal of the director of a public firm, if he's making false statements. No court would determine whether it was a fake or not. Okay. I think you're introducing a dangerous principle and precedent. Do you know what you're doing now when you say that you can't say it that way, in a similar context, to use the term false, or false. You will have to punish each of the MPs when they use the usual syntagma "false state of Kosovo". It's the same matrix of opinion. I don't think you should do this, but you've established such rules. In this case, you don't have a court ruling that would confirm something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7869	As for the false state of Kosovo, I am prepared to bear all responsibility and will always support that the state of Kosovo is false. As far as this is concerned, there is a decision by the Serbian state behind such an attitude and which considers Kosovo to be a false state. It's a state decision. As for decisions in any other sense, there is always an organ attitude. I don't want it to happen if we let the People's Messengers, if it wasn't for that, then each of us could stand up and say about someone, you know, you're lying. What would the work of the National Assembly be like? The word is Mrs. Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support what you just said, but I don't support what you do about it, which is that such a false state becomes stronger. Of course, I'll be back on the subject, so they won't take my word for it. (President: Please do not do what you do. I find that offensive. What you said I didn't do in any way. I find that very offensive. I warn you not to do that. I thank you for your findings. I'm asking you to give me back the time, since it's been 35 seconds that you've taken away from me from my time as an authorised representative. (President: I can't turn back time. That's the system. All right. I understand, but then give me a chance, if I'm out of time, not to mention 20 minutes. The laws on the agenda today should represent the first step in removing a series of huge mistakes, namely, incredible mistakes made in so-called. the reform judicial project. We expected these bill proposals that we are discussing today to provide a comprehensive, one real answer to what is happening today in the judiciary. Unfortunately, I can't say that for these bill proposals, because they represent one kind of half-determination and they only put out one part of the fire. How else can I characterise this ministry's efforts when changes to the CAP only delay the application of an incredibly bad law for October 2013 instead of discussing a whole new CAP today? How else can I characterise the insistence and efforts of the Ministry of Justice when these amendments, i.e. the additions of the Law on Judges and Prosecutors, only amnesty the responsibilities of all members of the VSS and the State's greater prosecutors than their irresponsible actions? Right at the beginning, I have to be absolutely clear, the solution provided for by the Law on Judges and Prosecutors, which refers to creating conditions for the election and allowing the election of judges first elected to be elected to permanent office, is the only option left for us, as MPs in this House. Of course, we support that, because there is no other option that can be found at this point as an adequate and just solution. This is the right thing to do. We don't have the opportunity to react in that direction to ask for this probationary period to be postponed, because we are disabled by the Constitution. Of course, we support this. None of us will ask that 600 judges of criminal courts or 300 judges of the basic court for the New Year's congratulatory be punished for not being elected, or for being resolved, because the VSS composition worked in a frighteningly irresponsible manner. That's not what any of us are asking for. I have to tell you, there's another question here. The question is, is someone gonna answer for what the VSS was doing? I'll remind you, Mr. Minister, that this is only one in a series of errors made by the VSS to undermine the entire justice system. We have been here for four years, not only to the mistakes of former Justice Ministry representatives and VSS members, but we have pointed to all the mistakes that have been called the reform project, and the consequences of these mistakes have led to the deformation of the justice system. Now that certain shifts, in that sense, have been made, when all judges and prosecutors have been returned to the workplace, we are going back to the beginning, meaning about 2008. Meanwhile, a number of problems have been raised and we need to know how to solve them at this point. What are the appropriate solutions that the Justice Department is offering right now? I'm sorry if I'm wrong, but I have to say it's my impression that you don't have the clearest plan of how to get out of this situation right now. What we're discussing today, of course, is just solutions. We, as MPs, and you, as minister of justice, do not deal with basic problems. I'll remind you when the government's election was on the agenda and the decision to expose the prime minister, that's when I told you something where I stand even tighter today. I told you today it's impossible to make any shifts in the judicial solution to the accumulated problems in the judiciary with this type of VSS. They bear responsibility, the greatest responsibility, for what happened in the judiciary today. I also said that it was necessary to amend and that your first task should be to amend the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. Now I'm telling you and I'm adding another argument that at this point, you have a perfectly reasonable legal argument to do so. All unselected judges and prosecutors have been returned to their posts. At this point, there are one third of the prosecutors, or judges who have not participated, in no way, in the selection of the current composition of the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors and, thus, their composition does not reflect the adequate representation of the judicial system at this time. They didn't have the opportunity to run or vote. In that case, I mean, if they've already been unlawfully resolved, their function, in the legal sense of the word, has never stopped. That, in my opinion, is one of the key arguments why you should approach this sort of thing. Of course, the strongest evidence of how the VSS worked is also the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia to return all improper judges and prosecutors to their jobs. This decision confirmed everything that we have been talking about in this House for four years, which is that the VSS is fully illegal, that it works in incomplete composition, that some of its members were in direct conflict of interest, that it does not apply the principle of debate when deciding on judges, does not make a ranking list of judges. One basic question arises – on what criteria do they make a decision on the choice of judges themselves? Of course, these criteria don't exist, they don't exist legally. I can't see them. That's exactly what this agenda point is about, because if there were these criteria, we wouldn't be forced today to do this solution that's on the agenda. The High Council of the judiciary, in my opinion, of course, and under the Constitution and the law, should provide both independence and independence, not only of the courts, but also of the judge in Serbia. It seems to me that, with its work so far, it has confirmed that it has taken certain moves that cannot be taken under the legal means of doing so. We will remember that one member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary was detained, it seems to me in November 2011 and that another member of the High Council of the judiciary resigned. A third member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary was in conflict of interest, and he didn't even think of accepting the Agency's explanation for the fight against corruption, that his post had ceased under the law. What is the biggest problem in this case, in the High Council of the Judiciary, is that he decided in incomplete composition and without these two judges. The bigger problem is that their absence from the Supreme Council of the judiciary is in breach of the principle guaranteed by the Constitution, which is that judges as members of the High Council of the judiciary must have a majority in the decision-making process. It's more than a clear example of how it shouldn't have been done. Should I further underline that the presidents of the former Justice Ministry and the current composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary are the most responsible for the lack of judicial reform? I don't think there's anyone in this House to object to today. In addition to all this, I'm sorry, but you do not show determination to correct that, and you could correct that if the current composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary was changed by passing a whole new law on the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. It's completely amazing to me, more specifically, I'm very seriously concerned that this is not your first move that has had to follow by now, because without it, I repeat, there is no movement and there is no progress in solving the accumulated problems in the judiciary. Since I'm running out of time, I won't be able to hold onto this bill much longer. When it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the application here is practically delayed, as I said at the beginning, by an extremely bad legal solution. I don't think there's anyone today who can give any word of praise to the Law, whose basic characteristics are the elimination of truth, the material truth of criminal proceedings. Then, the elimination, or passive role of the court in criminal proceedings, and, of course, what is most important, the inequality of parties and more than the inferior role of defence in relation to prosecutors. I remind you that the Law on Criminal Procedure in Serbia introduces two categories of defendants. One category that is charged with the crime of organised crime and war crimes and against which the criminal case is conducted before a special division of the Supreme Court. The second category has been blamed for all those other crimes that are conducted under some other laws. It's something that, of course, is definitely bad. I am pleased that we agree on the fact that this bill contains in a normative sense a large number of shortcomings and that intervention is necessary. Today, I must tell you that you can only have our support if this law is changed in a conceptual sense. Furthermore, when it comes to the Criminal Code, it only at first glances at the impression that there are major changes and additions, and basically a large number of minor changes and additions. He is, of course, certain provisions of the current law correct, precise, removing the mistakes that have been made in the previous law, introducing some new crimes, which we support, but I also have to say that some solutions are being restored. Our huge remark is about decriminalizing libel. I think this is a very bad solution and that practice will show that we all made a mistake in this case. As far as I know, and I think I have the right information, the task force, formed by the Justice Ministry, has not given a positive opinion on decriminalization of libel. That's the information I have, and you correct me if I'm wrong. Also in Europe today, modern, democratic, Western-European countries have not accepted this concept. We heard in your statement that it was the UK, but yesterday I saw that law in Great Britain, and I couldn't find where the decrimination was decriminalized. Please simply support that by some kind of evidence or by referring to a special member who defines it. As far as I know, only a few European countries have done it today, and these are Moldova, Georgia, BiH and Montenegro. I know that they have not been in our past, and there will be no future role models in the development of modern criminal law. I'll also remind you that Romania did it in 2006, but it quickly realized that it was wrong, and in 2009, it returned the crime to its criminal code. The argument given to us in the explanation, in my opinion, is very thin. For what reason? Because you said you were forced to do this because of the pressure you suffered. To be more specific, you've met the request of a large number of associations, and you're particularly pointing out journalists' associations. You're saying it was a request from the professional public. If my information is correct, that the Justice Department's working group has not given a positive opinion and consent to decriminalization of slander, then I ask you to explain to me which expert public this is. If you have taken into account the views of some NGOs, associations, journalists' associations, then please answer my question why did you not consider citizens' demands? I think in this case, their rights regarding this crime have been completely disregarded. I'm going to explain to you very briefly what this is all about. The word has always had a specific weight in these places. It is not rare cases in the past or today, that people have reached out for their honor and reputation, perhaps for some traditional methods of defense of cheeks. To be perfectly clear, they've reached for justice to be taken into their own hands. I'm simply worried that by removing the defamation of the crime, this phenomenon will become more and more common. Also, I have to tell you that for a man of honor and dignity, slander has more weight than perhaps even physical punishment, brutal beating or even serious physical injury. That's why I'm making my argument in what sense I don't think this work should have been deleted from the Criminal Code. Civil law, of course, is difficult to provide effective protection against slander because, in my opinion, the practice of defamation-free countries is thus encouraged only by the wealthy to continue slandering. They do not find it difficult to pay in litigation on behalf of compensation for immaterial damage a certain amount of money. They can do it today without any sense of fear of criminal sanctions that may follow. As a result, the defamation person finds no satisfaction in the money he may receive in the litigation process, but finds his own satisfaction in blaming the defendant, in conducting criminal proceedings against him, and in criminal record he is being held as the perpetrator of the crime. That may be one of the basic reasons why I'm making my argument against eradicating this crime. Also, it should not be forgotten that criminal sanctions are a disgrace to a kind of behavior and that it is a condemnation of a public environment at that time. It should be said that this is the only crime where the burden of proof is borne by the defendant. So it is up to him to prove that what he was carrying or bringing to the expense of another, and it was not true, he has to prove that it is true. So another reason, or argument, is that this crime should not be abolished. When it comes to journalists, I'm sorry that I have very little time left, when it comes to journalists, I don't see anything controversial in this case. If the press has a clear source of information, from which they have received, they have no reason to worry that one day they will be prosecuted for slander and even if they defamation. But if journalists carry a certain kind of untruth about anyone, meaning another man, and for that they have no evidence, then they cannot materialize their claims regarding the submission of certain evidence, then they should be held accountable. I am fully conscious and firm in this attitude, because I see no reason why they would be privileged in relation to other members and other citizens. So it's completely justified. I don't think they should have accepted the arguments of the press association, because they should have acted in accordance with the principle of journalistic attention. Of course, I still have a lot of grudges on this bill, but they're much less important anyway than the one I put out, and that's why I've spent a lot of time explaining it to you. I'll talk about everything else, very closely in the discussion in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7871	In the system, the next reported is MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7872	Dear President, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will support the draft laws amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on Judges. These laws confirm that the government of the Republic of Serbia is headed by Prime Minister Ivica Dacic on a good path to finally introduce order into the system of government, this time by the judicial authorities. It is no doubt that the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, led by Minister Selakovic, has made a great effort to systematically improve the quality of criminal and legal protection and at the time of the consolidation of the situation in the judiciary, enables courts to effectively act and make fair and based decisions. Of course, this must be a lasting process, that the process must continuously analyse which areas of society are not covered by criminal and legal protection, and then pass laws to which that protection is provided and guaranteed. Why? Because we are facing crimes on a daily basis, especially serious crimes with an extremely high degree of social danger. First of all, there are brutal and brutal murders, domestic violence and other types of violence with severe bodily injuries, and not rarely with fatal consequences. There are various visions and types of arrogant and reckless behavior both individually and in the group, as a special form of violent behavior. Especially the great monster of today are also very dangerous anti-laws related to drug trafficking, human trafficking, human organs, arms trafficking as well as corruption that is definitely a problem that is starting to metastasize and affect all pores of society, all pores of the system and state and endangering the state. It is logical that the consequences of such anti-legislative actions are very difficult consequences, in any case inexplicably harmful, and without adequate criminal and legal protection of this illegal action, they can simply, as I have already said, be far, far more intense and far greater dangers. In commenting on the proposed laws, I would like to first point out and affirm the quality of the Criminal Code, but at the same time try and how well-meaning, well-intentioned suggestions to some parts of the Criminal Code that I consider to be able to improve with certain adjustments in terms of qualityazacone. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Justice Committee, I presented the position that I am holding consistently, which is that the amendment and addition of the Criminal Code is just the beginning of the purification of the Criminal Code and that it will be a lasting process in which the Criminal Law will be continuously developed and improved in its quality. The SPS has no dilemma. The Justice Department will always have real support in that direction. What merits the proposed changes and additions to the Criminal Code is the systematicization of new criminal acts, and thus the introduction into the law of a significantly greater number of protected goods in these criminal acts. So now criminal and legal protection is enjoyed both by sports and other competitions, that we simply do not look at the fact that exactly the organisation of sports competitions and the realization of the same recently represents a suitable ground or a good polygon for various anti-law activities and incriminations that are mainly manifested in terms of abuse, fraud and so forth. It is also good that criminal and legal protection is now enjoyed by public procurement. In view of the fact that public procurement is exactly the most suitable field of corrupt activity and perhaps the most dangerous generator of corruption. However, given the fact that in relation to public procurement, there are also situations or social areas that may be at great risk of such a form of corruptive action as health and so on. It is by criminalising public procurement that we influence the prevention of corruption in this direction to be as effective as possible. It is a special pleasure to point out that the character of the protected goods in the criminal and legal sense of the words has also been given to the lawyer, as a public function. It is good that, recognising the problems of asylum seekers in our, and in other countries, the Proposer in the Criminal Code has systematized and a criminal act called – disabling the abuse of the right of asylum in a foreign country, and it is particularly well and in line with international standards that the Proposer introduced in the Criminal Code those crimes that represent the monster of today, which is terrorism, association for terrorist activity and related crimes. These are crimes where good is protected, nothing but all the states of this world and the population, the entire population of this planet. When both the wording and the initial part of the Criminal Code is analysed and the criminal justice institutes in that introductory part must, in a qualitative sense, point out that it is a very good solution to the assessment and determination of the species and the level of criminal sanctions in a criminal offence where hate against races, national communities, people of various creeds, different birth groups, and so on. These circumstances, and in any case the motive for committing a crime or an initiative that is burdened with hatred, certainly merit attention, that they should be particularly difficult circumstances and I would personally appeal to all courts and judges that indeed, in such criminal acts, in the case of a decision to weigh a fine, or in the case of a decision on the nature and the level of criminal sanctions, these circumstances are treated as particularly difficult circumstances. Why? Because of the far greater degree of criminal and legal protection in those parts of the population or parts of the population, i.e. the population who have not had that protection adequately so far, and in any event, it is generally accompanied by international criminal and legal standards. The qualitative change in the criminal code and again in the opening section applies to the security measure, the restraining order and the communication of the perpetrator of the crime with the damaged, the perpetrator of the crime that did the damage to that particular damaged one, where time is committed from six months to three years, where the perpetrator of the crime does not receive any benefit, because this time does not enter the period of sustained imprisonment or security measures. However, in addition to all these qualitative steps in improving the Criminal Code, there is something that should be pointed out and tried to clarify or specify certain parts of the Criminal Code with certain adjustments. In that sense, I will point to the proposed criminal and legal institute of mandatory parole. Why? It is simply because I believe that the obligation of parole should not be generalised, or should not apply to all perpetrators of the crime. We have perpetrators of crimes that essentially represent very dangerous persons in a socio-legal sense. Why? Because they've committed crimes with the highest degree of social danger, because it's about reedists, multiple returnees, in particular serious crimes. In such criminal offences, the obligation of parole is not always justified, and the justification of parole in such criminal offences is linked to the fulfilment of the conditions provided for in the law, which means that their conduct during the maintenance of the sentence in the KPI, thus corrected that they can be expected to carry out no new crimes at large, that they have proved to be disciplined, that they are not guided by disciplinary proceedings, that their work tasks and obligations have been carried out neatly. What about when we have predisposed perpetrators and those crimes where there's more than 10 incarceration and even 30-40 years in prison? Should such perpetrators be given benefit, or the privilege of compulsory parole? As a man who is bound by justice, I believe that this is not justified and I believe that only the courts can evaluate this as a prescribed procedure, whether there is a possibility for those perpetrators of criminal offences to be subject to the discretion of the court, that only those perpetrators of the criminal offence may decide on the justification of parole and on what I consider mandatory, to carry out the selection of criminal offences and those crimes committed by the perpetrators to whom this parole applies, which I do not consider that they should have the privilege to which they are indicated here. Special attention in the analysis of changes and additions to the Penal Code, in my opinion, and even for some of my other colleagues, merits decriminalization of the defamation of the criminal act, it merits attention. Personally, I think that's what caution is about, that decriminalizing this crime opens up space for some dangers. These dangers can be deepened, multiplicated and caused by a variety of problems, given that it is protected well in this criminal act, extremely high value for each individual, according to his personal ethical code, which is honor, the reputation of every man. If these protected goods are not under criminal and legal protection, then how do you expect the honor and reputation of an individual to be protected by criminal law, so that these two protected goods are not systematised in other qualifications, in other criminal acts. It is perfectly clear to me that this proposal to erase the criminal act of slander from the Criminal Code is the impact of international organisations, institutions, and even suggestions of internalities and internal factors, but it cannot justify the decriminalisation of something that involves the protection of a very valuable protected good, because it will open the door with various labels, defamation, defamation, and it is especially a problem, if it is done through means of public information, although what I am saying is in no way condemning the means of public information, or media, because they too have their own ethical code of conduct, the code of journalistic ethics to be held, but we cannot ignore the fact that there is a danger of precisely this kind where not only public figures, but all individuals will be exposed to one slanderous terror. Therefore, I would ask for a further analysis and consideration of the possibility of the survival of this crime or the systematicization of the being and the marking of this crime in another criminal act. I find it very good, very high-quality in the system of terms the solution that the Criminal Code now systematises a criminal act that is related to sports and other competitions, i.e. negotiating the outcome of the competition. Dear Minister, I'd like to make some suggestions here that I've made in the amendment as well, so I'd like to ask you to consider them carefully, and if they help you, that this criminal act is more clearly and precisely defined in his qualification. I support the promoter for recognising the necessity to achieve criminal and legal protection precisely in the organizations and realizations of sports competitions, because there are numerous abuses in the way of setting up the results of the competition, determining the winner of the competition with the achievement of the property benefit at enormous amounts, not to mention illegal transfers of players or competitors etc. What's the problem here? The problem is that in systematicization, the qualification of a crime is not defined by something that involves the mandatory element of the entity's crime, which is the time of the execution of the crime. Why am I saying this? Because the impact on the setting up of the results and the winners of the competition, as well as the agreement, can only exist before the start of the competition or during the duration of the competition, but not after that, because all criminal and legal acts afterwards fall under another qualification, there will be another criminal act or counterfeiting of the official document or abuse or something third. I think it is necessary here to bear in mind that the qualification of a criminal offence is precise in order for courts to have as little space as possible or as much opportunity as possible to precisely determine themselves according to the perpetrator of the crime and to identify the action of committing the crime. I would therefore suggest that the qualification of this criminal act is just like this, which before maintenance, as well as during the course of a sports competition or another, agreements and other ways affect the outcome of the competition and the determination of the winner of the competition in order to obtain his or her or her property benefit, will be punished by a prescribed penalty. It seems to me that it is far more precise and that it is far more practical in the practical sense of the word, legal and systemic solution, and that the courts on this basis will have an effective opportunity to, in the course of a legal assessment of all the facts that appear in the proceedings against the accused or the suspect, who is burdened by this crime, make a truly fair and legally based decision. But besides all this, there's something that can't cause controversy. If I may have caused controversy, at least in the minds of some colleagues, with these previous highlights, there is certainly no controversy here, it is the criminal part of non-payment of taxes at deduction. In my opinion, a constantly and constantly bad solution, as in the existing law, and even now I think, although the promoter has made a huge effort to simplify this crime by separating the official from the responsible person. Why? Because of the incrimination involved, which implies that the responsible person in the company, in order to avoid paying taxes and contributions to the PIO, did not pay that amount which was otherwise calculated and recorded in the accounts. Now let someone explain to me who is not a lawyer, who has nothing to do with the legal profession, as far as possible, and there is a legitimate question, which consists of the anti-legal intention of that responsible person in the company, which is in a months-long blockade when the company does not work, does not make any revenue, due to the poor financial situation and which due to the blocking of the account is unable to pay its commitments. So where's the illegal intention, if he recorded everything he was obliged to pay in business books, and he couldn't pay, and we colleagues are daily faced with it, that these directors, to the greatest extent, are processing neither guilty nor debtors? This is an anachronism, in a legal sense, that needs to be thrown out of the Penal Code. I believe that the crime of abuse of official office, in this direction, since it is differentiated from other crimes, had to remain and have nothing against it, but for this short time that I have left, I just have to look briefly at the provisions of the Law on Judges, and they are, in my opinion, something that is inevitable and something that is for me as a man and a lawyer, and not as a MP and a member of the party, normally and logically. Is it normal and logical, that the judges who were elected for the first time in three years, would be four years... Just to warn you on time, sir. ) Very briefly, they are all three years out of work, without evaluation, without any interference in the quality of the profession, now that you are forced to give them the status of permanent judges and prosecutors, simply, neither guilty nor obliged to come to such status. It's not the judges' fault, it's the ones who committed a huge legal failure...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7873	Now I really have to warn you in time, because if I let you, then everyone else will break time drastically. Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. It's Mrs. Kolundji's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7874	Dear President, Mr. Minister, that the Members of the People's Parliament and I, today we received four laws in the area of justice by an emergency procedure on Saturday. Convincing everyone who justified the reasons why we are doing it today, in such a hurry, without having a serious opportunity to influence these legal proposals with amendments and to correct them, the answer was that this was done in order to make the fight against crime and corruption effective. In that sense, all MPs rightly expected that the minister in what he read neatly as an explanation, which we received among other things, so we could read for ourselves, and therefore we expected to get more than that explanation, we expected to get answers to the question, what are these concrete changes achieved in creating institutional mechanisms for the organised fight of the state against every form of crime and corruption? Always, when it comes to fighting crime, the question always arises – does the law put everything in one position? So, if it hadn't been for the previous law to put someone in a more favourable position, so now it's necessary that these amendments to the law equalize everyone before the law, so that no one gets away with justice? From all these proposed amendments to the law, we don't see the answer to that question. So there is not a single amendment to the law that could be said to have been corrected by a mistake in the previous law and thus allowed what was the privilege of some, and what was the fate of some others to respond to the law, to remove it, which gives us the right to believe, that the laws that were passed in the previous period, in that sense were unequivocally clear and that each one was equally accountable to the law. Another thing that is also crucial, when the fight against crime and corruption, which is now full of corruption, is now a major topic, I have the impression that all forms of crime slowly cease to be important and that corruption is the only one we have to fight, that the way to fight it, among other things, and that by tightening criminal policy, adequately punishing criminals on the one hand, and on the other hand, is to deter any potential criminal offender. If we look at the Criminal Code, then we will see that the provisions concerning criminal policies actually go hand in hand to the perpetrators of criminal acts, to reduce all penalties, to create conditions to write down and to the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, and then really to ask a legitimate question – what is the meaning of these changes? So, we can do now, it would be logical that the government, or the ministry, has even made some kind of simulation, which would show us how applying these provisions to the most serious crimes and the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, because then we could see whether and to what extent this law actually punishes the most severe perpetrators of the serious crimes. Every society fights crime by punishing the perpetrators. Every society struggles against the returnees, by preventing anyone who has already committed a crime and anyone who would eventually do so in the future. So, if we look at this law, then we'll see that Article 4 of this law provides for the court's obligation to extend two-thirds of the sentence, give parole. The court's obligation, in relation to a previous solution, in which the court was able to assess many circumstances, gave discharge. Now, the court now declares parole after two-thirds of the sentence. What does that mean exactly? If we simulate specific cases, then it turns out this way: if we take the example of Sreten Jocic, he will serve seven-and-a-half years in prison, because he is also subject to mandatory parole, but also amnesty. In this way, every sense of punishment for the most serious crimes is fully derivated. Despite the minister’s saying that the laws do not have a name and name, the ministry has to keep an eye on, or the ruling majority has to take care of when they pass laws, what consequences does the law really have by what is right and in some way justice? Under this law, if this law is adopted as it is now, the perpetrators of the murder of Bris Taton, who were originally sentenced to a sentence of 30 years, so it has been changed to 15 years, will be released after 10 years, etc. We could make many perpetrators of the most serious crimes, when we put them in application of this law, to see that he was actually written in their favor. So, it looks like their lawyers wrote this bill, because this law goes in favor of their defenders. So there's something else to note. This provision also applies to, whether there will be an amendment later, anyone who will be subject to this law and the future to which this law will be applied. So, too, Miroslav Miskovic, if convicted, the court will necessarily make a decision to fire after the execution of two-thirds of the sentence imposed. So this law fully relativises parole. It is therefore impossible for constitutional discharge to be imposed as mandatory after the expiry of the sentence. The court has to assess in which cases it can and should do so, not to do so in automation. In Article 7(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: The draft law provides for the removal of the position of Article 2. Criminal code. It's eradicating an existing ban on fines for certain crimes. This law stipulates that, following the adoption of this law, the punishment for the crimes of kidnapping, rape, the promise of powerless persons, the illegal crossing of the state border, trafficking of people, trafficking of people, promises of the child, unauthorized production and the placing on the market of intoxicated drugs. So the previous law ruled out the possibility of easing the penalty for these most severe crimes. With this law, we could once again pull out of the court records of names and persons to whom this will apply, so that you can see that there are rapists who have returned several times, that there are child molesters who have made families unhappy and that, according to this bill of law, they will be able to be relieved of the prison sentence. So maybe all these crimes aren't the same weight. If you wanted to make some distinction with respect to which crimes must necessarily be excluded from the possibility of easing punishment, then you had to do it, not by one move to erase all crimes that are not covered by the mitigation of punishment. This law goes hand in hand to the defendants, i.e. this again seems to prove that this law has been written by lawyers defending their protégés. They, I must say, did a great job. This law is fantastic from the point of view of any lawyer who defends the most serious crimes. The law also envisions the abolition of the criminal offence of commenting on court rules. I could say hello to that, given that the highest state officials, starting with the Deputy Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister, are most often commenting on criminal acts, and now this seems to be lifted so that he doesn't have to comply with this law by now. So now he can comment on court proceedings to his will, to announce arrests, to determine the verdicts before the court decides and that no one can call anyone to account. I suppose this member of the law has been changed for exactly such or similar reasons. Article 13 provides for the erasure of the position of Article 3(8). The criminal code, which stipulates that a qualified form of criminal offence is a threat to security if the President of the Republic is damaged, the MP, the Prime Minister, etc. public office holders, among other things, journalists. So you're proposing to delete a qualified form of crime and now you're asking who's benefiting from this? Do citizens benefit from banned organizations threatening judges of the Supreme Court? Do citizens benefit from being threatened by journalists and the media and those who are threatened remain unpunished? Does that benefit the members of non - government organizations who are threatened with death and remain unpunished? So, you did these favors to forbidden organizations, to all extreme organizations, but that may not be surprising, above all, because of the fact that you yourself were at the head of the protest of these organizations. So, we may understand your motivation to put a member like this in the draft of this law, because you obviously think that organizations, which make the most difficult threats to state officials, don't need to be held accountable. It's something we can say is that turning back is anti-civilization, that it's a failure, and that the protection of those who violate not only constitutional order, but also the fundamental human rights of others and can remain completely unpunished. Of course, there are good solutions in this law, as many good solutions have been passed from the text of the law prepared by the previous government. When we look at how many of these solutions there are, then we realize that's a great percentage of those solutions. By that, we might be able to support the law, but because of what I've been talking about now, I think no one who is responsible and no one who really wants to fight crime and corruption can support these laws that in this way actually break out of the hands of institutions the possibility of effectively fighting crime and corruption. So, the story of how these laws are by speedy procedure, by shortcut, by emergency procedure, without being adequately answered, has been sent here to allow for a more effective fight against crime and corruption, is actually not true. The only thing we can conclude here is that the lawyers of the perpetrators of the most serious crimes are getting the most, and so are the perpetrators of the crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7875	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, firstly I will point out that the time I have as an authorised representative will be divided into two parts. Let's keep it for a while. So, the SNS will support all four laws that have entered the procedure today and have been proposed by the Ministry of Justice. I think the citizens of this discussion have also seen that these are laws for which even the opposition has no sharp criticism. Of course, there are a lot of good amendments. I'm sure some of these amendments will be carefully considered by the ministry, so why not adopt. It is four laws that will really help fight corruption, four laws that will help reform the disastrous judiciary inherited from the former regime and four laws that will definitely bring Serbia closer to the EU. If we look at a partial, one law at a time, we must first stress that the delay in applying the Code of Criminal Procedure is not for centuries and centuries, it is a delay until October of next year. All of us lawyers are particularly willing to criticise the Code of Criminal Procedure, we are prepared to criticise the solutions contained in it. We could probably discuss the reasons for detention for days, and we could discuss that the prosecution investigation has these or those faults, but whenever the lawyers received a question particularly from lawyers, judges and prosecutors, who in practice apply the Code of Criminal Procedure, whenever they were asked how to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, then the People's - Two Lawyers, Five Opinions came into effect. For this reason, I do not think there are any criticisms that the proposed postponement of the law is not a step forward. Far from that, it's a major breakthrough. We can also see from the Justice Department's website that the Working Group for the construction of a new Code of Criminal Procedure has been formed, that this working group is made up of the most respected professors, the most respected judges, that there are also lawyers, that there are prosecutors, so all those who apply the Code of Criminal Procedure in practice. The Department of Justice has introduced a practice that we haven't seen in a long time, which is that on the line of the law is sent periodically to both professional organisations and legal chambers. I know for a fact that a large number of lawyers have sent their opinions. So, there is a public debate, and we are sure that this public debate will very soon result in one of the quality changes and additions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which will enter the Serbian Assembly, and then it will take some time for prosecutors to educate, to educate lawyers, to educate all those involved in criminal proceedings. On the other hand, the fact that an emergency procedure had to bring amendments and amendments to the Law on Prosecutors, or the Law on Judges, is an exclusive guilt, and I have to agree with many speakers before me, the High Council of the Judiciary, excluding the guilt of the people who sat in that council of the judiciary. Let's put aside those nuns who left the High Council in time, put aside those members of the High Court who, in the meantime, resigned or were gunned down, and even arrested, in order to be forced by the former regime to leave the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Of course, at this point constitutionally observed there is no alternative but to simply all the judges, all the prosecutors chosen for the first time re-elected. There are no rules, there are no criteria for their assessment, all these regulations, all these criteria need to be passed by the High Court Council. Now that we draw the line, we can essentially thank, frankly, Nati Mesarovic. She did not bring it, she is headed by the Supreme Council of the judiciary, she is under trial before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of her election. It's exactly the kind of people that are the most and I repeat this and I sign this, I've worked where I worked, I've contributed the most to the disaster of the Serbian judiciary that the Justice Department is solving the way it can and must. The deadlines envisioned by the Constitution will expire on December 31st, and we have no others as the National Assembly but to adopt these amendments and additions to the laws proposed by the Ministry of Justice and to leave it to the Constitutional Court to say first what Nata Mesarovic, as VSS president, did in the disaster of judicial reform. I don't think there will be any discussion about it and this law will be unanimously adopted. I think the distinguished colleagues and colleagues will agree that when it comes to the CAP to give some more time to public debates, thank God we have public debates, we haven't had them until recently and it's good to discuss and you know what the people say – two lawyers, five opinions. It's never easy to determine what the best solution is. As far as Criminal Law is concerned, it's definitely a big step forward and a big repair of the existing Criminal Law. I don't agree with some of the comments we've heard, that it's not worth a partial solution, again, and in this case, we had one expert working group, we had public debates, we had an EU position. We see that a lot of debate has raised the question of abolishing the crime of slander. I will have to express my position and the position of the SNS parliamentary group that slander should be abolished as a crime, not only for Europe, not only because it is a European tradition, but also for ourselves. Why? On the one hand, we saw for ourselves that slander often limits journalists to doing their job. We've also heard this from the journalist's professional associations that because of the slander, the constitutional right of citizens to be informed has been compromised. It is not true that by abolishing libel, legal protection, honor and reputation ceases. Let us not forget that an insult remains a crime, remains an illegal act of personal opportunity. Let's not forget that a whole series of crimes that protect minors and, above all, I think about families of people who are slandered still exist in our legal system. People who think they're defamed will be able to turn to the court like in America and demand compensation for material and immaterial damages. We can appeal and this is a good opportunity, to the courts that today-to-morrow such disputes judge as quickly as possible, in order to remain protected human dignity and honor and reputation. On the other hand, why are we so against monetary liability for libel? Defamation involves exclusively fines. So I don't think there's anything terrible going on if we end the slander. I believe that there will remain an opportunity to protect honor and reputation and that this will be a big step in our European path, and yet, we have received very good comments from all, GREC and competent European institutions. On the other hand, I repeat, there is protection, and especially there is that protection that is most normal in the west, which is monetary protection. If someone slanders you, sue him, take his millions, block his property, and see what it looks like in practice. We must support a reduction in the crime of petty theft. With 15 thousand dinars, the Department of Justice has dropped to 10 grand. I will take the opportunity to inform the minister that as many as three amendments have come from different parliamentary groups so far, I would not be surprised if there were more amendments, that somehow we all came to a point where we should reduce to 5,000. I believe that if adopted, we will have one general consensus in the National Assembly. As for the abolition of the criminal act of the unlawful public commentation of court proceedings, which we have had the opportunity to hear that this is being introduced because the greatest anti-corruption fighters at this point could comment on the court's rulings on television, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, to explain to the public. That's not true. At this point, since the termination of the crime in Article 336. The most useful thing will be for Nata Mesarovic, because I personally filed ten criminal charges against her, because she commented on the verdicts in the cases where I was a defender. I'm setting an example... (President: Please, Mr Cvian, since it says in the Rules of Procedure that we cannot present the elements of the private life of other persons, this does not fall within the scope of the work. I wouldn't want us to commit a crime. ) Just before some names were mentioned, so you didn't react, but, okay. (President: we don't mind mentioning the name. If you mention a name as part of performing a professional function and criticizing the work, you are absolutely right. I just wanted someone not to bring something out of private relationships. ) This situation was before the election campaign, it was part of political work, but, okay. I accept your criticism and apologize again. So the public has the right to know, especially at the time of the fight against corruption, what happens in certain cases before courts. We see for ourselves that today is the most normal day for lawyers to state their position, the prosecutor to state his position, analysts to his position, it's all quite fine. The abolition of the criminal offence of the unlawful public commentation of court verdicts, and by the way, the crime was very strangely defined and difficult to apply, will not lift anything, nothing reduces the rights of the people who are accused. I have to point out one other thing that should also be explained to colleagues who are not lawyers and the public. There is another crime in the same chapter of the Criminal Code, which is a violation of the confidentiality of the procedure. That crime continues to apply. This is Article 337. The criminal code, and whoever's in the media, is giving secret information from criminal proceedings being conducted, and all the data from the special court proceedings are classified, it's going to be a crime. As for other qualities of the criminal code itself, I will join with the comments of all MPs that the introduction of hatred as a kind of binding, daunting circumstance, if hatred as a motive and element of a criminal act is unequivocally determined, that it is a daunting circumstance and that is a great progress. There's great progress and I'm going to have to disagree with some of my predecessors, that's the fact that it's been introduced that there will now be parole after serving two-thirds of the fines for all the people who meet the conditions. Let's explain it to the citizens one more time. Only those who rule well will be released from prison, as will the military. Whoever was serving the army remembers that we've all been waiting for the last month that if we were well-run, we'd be released. That's how it is now. It is the court that assesses on the basis of the documentation it receives, based on the resociation programme, based on all other elements whether anyone deserves to get that famous one-third. As for abuse of official position, we have again met European requirements, the conditions of the European directives. I have heard certain MPs criticise existing solutions from the new law. As a lawyer, I'll be honest with you that I didn't understand those criticisms. Personally, I think the law is perfectly written, it's perfectly proposed. The only thing we're going to wait for is to see on the basis of the amendment whether or not something should be accepted. I must point out that abuse of official position in some formulation exists in EU countries, but it's not called that. There's some kind of abuse of an authorized person, or a responsible person. On the other hand, this law is fully in line with European standards. Finally, let's also look at the solutions to assign the possibility of easing penalties below minimums for all criminal acts. I'm absolutely convinced that every other solution is unconstitutional. I have to quote what we've repeated several times - the laws don't have a name, the laws apply today to one name, tomorrow to another, the day after tomorrow to another. So the law doesn't have a name and it has to be the same for everyone. In this context, it is difficult to accept that rules on some mitigation below the minimum can apply to one and cannot apply to others. It must have led to a whole series of injustices, injustices in our actions, and I witnessed it myself. Anyway, I know there's been a lot of amendments and very good quality amendments. I'm sure those amendments with the minister will be carefully studied. Surely many will be accepted. But regardless, what's the general assessment is that these laws are extremely high-quality. Those laws that have been extorted are what they are, but it is certainly not Minister Selakovic's fault and his team. It was the situation he inherited from some of the previous factors that dealt with the judiciary. In the voting day, I expect that one serious majority of these laws will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7877	Thank you. The first to be declared is Parliament of People Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7878	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I will speak of this law not as a lawyer, not as a lawyer, because I am neither, but out of deep conviction that Serbian citizens also have the right to know what this law is talking about, what is changing in it, what is good in it, and what may not be good in it. I am convinced that every system should not regulate itself, so when we pass laws in the field of health, not only should doctors ask themselves, when we pass laws in the field of education, not only should teachers ask themselves, because the center of the system is a student, it is a patient. In this case, it's a citizen. That's why I want as a citizen to talk about this law, about its good and bad sides. It is certainly good that this law is now passed, not only because it is in line with European practice and norms, not only because it is in line with the demands of the Council of Europe or GRECO, but because it is a law that is necessary for legal certainty in our country to be raised to a higher level. I believe that this is its basic quality, I believe that what is good for the citizens and what is good for Serbia is what the citizens of our country need. In that sense, I see this law as one instrument for satisfying justice and perhaps the most important instrument for satisfying justice. What is good in this law is certainly that it now clearly defines acts related to terrorism. It is something that is a global problem, and certainly the problem of Serbia as part of a system in which we all participate together. Also, it is certainly good that many colleagues before me have commended it, which is a clearer definition of abuse of office and separation to responsible persons and abuse of official office, as well as any unlawful benefit that will allow for themselves or for someone else’s responsible person to be sanctioned. I would like to emphasise another aspect of this law which, I think, my colleagues have not spoken much about, which is the fact that he now defines the crimes that are related to asylum seekers. This is a problem that has been a major problem for Serbia on its way to the EU, and that is certainly something that will speed up our path. I can say that in consultation with Mrs Grubjesic, who has conducted numerous EU talks on the accession process, I have received information that our partners in the EU are very pleased with the fact that this work is now defined in this way. It is certain that both public procurement and public procurement abuses are something that is very important and that this law adequately regulates. I would especially like to highlight another aspect that is related to illicit sexual acts. This time we specifically singled out, it's now a newspaper in this law, as a particularly difficult circumstance for illicit sexual acts performed over children by their parents, guardians, teachers, teachers or close persons. If we know that every fifth girl has been abused during her life, suffered some form of sexual abuse and that the most common perpetrators of these acts are precisely from their immediate surroundings, then we know how important it is for this work to be particularly punished and to be a particularly difficult environment. It is certainly commendable that the hate crime is also particularly sanctioned, because it is something that is still an open issue for our society and something that sets one of the foundations for the development of our society. There are also things I would resent this law and I will also talk about it, given the fact that I have submitted some amendments to it. I'm falling into that group of MPs who believe decriminalizing libel is not a good idea. My colleague's already talked a lot about it. I fully join the reasons they listed. I believe defamation is not a crime that is related only to a journalistic profession. It is simply an act that is related to the defense of honor and respect of all citizens of Serbia and I would like to point out that it is by no means the journalists in this country who are most often slandered. You have that on all levels, in all our environments. I strongly believe that it is necessary to retain the right of all citizens to defend their honor and their reputation. Defamation can be a teacher, a teacher at a school, a doctor, any citizen, can be slandered by his colleague, neighbor, anyone. So this work is not an act involving particularly journalists, and I don't see any reason why they're the very ones who are considering this act being decriminalized. I want to say that in no way do I experience that this action is directed against journalists, nor that it is only politicians who are slandered. Personally, I've had a more frequent situation to be slandered by fellow politicians than by journalists, so I believe that it is absolutely necessary to maintain the right of all those who want to defend their honor and reputation, to do so using this instrument of the Criminal Code. Can we gain satisfaction by seeking high amounts of money in a litigatory procedure from someone who has slandered our honor and reputation? I don't believe it personally. I believe that money is not a pleasure. I truly believe that this is the value behind which the whole society should stand and that society and state thus show what is acceptable and what is not acceptable behavior. It's not a question that happens between two people. This is a question of one of the basic values and the whole society should clearly show that it honors and respects as the fundamental value of this society and of every individual in it. I have submitted an amendment that I have entered, given the fact that the explanation was given to journalists, and additional protection of journalists, so during the debate in particular, we will have the opportunity to discuss this further. There is another view that is deleted from this law, which I believe is not necessary, which is to endanger the security of those persons who are engaged, I can say, in public business. First of all, he thinks of state officials, high-ranking state officials, and he thinks of journalists. I really believe that the explanation, if I may say so, is in some way a public matter. As an MP, I strongly support this government, among other things, because I believe it is one of the few governments that has the courage to tell citizens the truth. I'm deeply convinced it's her worth. My support for this aspect is very strong. I don't expect this government to withdraw and raise certain beliefs that are wrong. The wrong belief is that senior state officials should no longer be protected from some citizens. Why? Because their exposure to danger is much higher. Simply, they represent the institutions of this state. We live in a country where the prime minister was killed, we live in a country where several journalists were killed, we live in a country where high officials are still being threatened today and continue to threaten journalists. I think it's totally inadmissible. I believe that every citizen will be much safer if he knows that not everyone can threaten the institutions of this state. If we were to go from the fact that you're stating in an explanation, that this is how citizens are discriminated against and that all citizens are exactly the same, and so to speak, went to some extreme borders that may sometimes be like demagogy, then we could ask a question, first – why did we leave an insult? Secondly, why is it that the President of the Republic and the highest state officials have the right to security, escort and all that means protecting their personal security, and above all, I would say, the security of this country? I absolutely advocate that this work be detained and that the state makes it very clear that not everyone can threaten the safety of high-ranking state officials, but also journalists who are doing their job responsibly and honorably, pointing to a number of problems in this society. I'm sure the citizens wouldn't feel discriminated against, on the contrary, I'm sure it's in their interest. I also intervened in the area of illicit sex stores. As I said before, the law has already provided for an additional difficult circumstance. However, I also believe that it is necessary to separate in one more aspect, when the work applies to children and minors, and it will also be the subject of intervention, and it is actually the most difficult form of execution of this part, when death occurs due to the conduct of illicit sexual acts. I believe that when the death of a minor occurs, there should be a stricter sentence, and that's something I've brought into the amendment. I also advocate what many colleagues have already talked about, which is that petty theft should absolutely be reduced to a lower limit. That border, as we've heard, will probably be five years. I would personally have zero tolerance for this kind of theft and robbery, because if someone walks into your house and takes anything or doesn't take anything away, you'll feel just as insecure as if they've taken 10,000 or 15,000 dinars away from you. I don't think that's fundamentally a big difference, I think the fact that your privacy has been violated in this way and that your property has been attacked and your privacy is something that needs to be sanctioned. What I especially want to talk about today, ladies and gentlemen, and it is not easy for me to talk about, today in Leskovec a young police officer, Miroslav Stamenkovic, is buried. It's a child with the heart of a giant. Did he give his life for a handful of gold? No, I don't. I am convinced that he gave his life to build into the foundations of this society some basic values, which we sometimes forget. These are the values of honor and the differences between good and evil. That kid knew what was good, and that's why he gave up his life. What we can do in front of that, except get our heads down. In the deepest pain, I can only be proud that I was his fellow citizen, but I think we should be ashamed of ourselves in front of that. Why? Because we may not have made it clear in this society what is acceptable and what is totally unacceptable. We haven't made it clear to our children what role models are, and what can't possibly be role models. We did not make it clear that it was unacceptable to seek justice for a Urosh or a Milladin. Where is justice for Miroslav Stamenkovic? Justice for Miroslav Stamenkovic must be in that he is a role model for our children by not dreaming of weapons, but will dream of professionalism, knowledge, justice. So I believe that this society needs to send a strong message that carrying and possession of weapons is something that is not acceptable to this society, especially the illicit carrying of weapons. Unfortunately, we have 15-year-olds, who are rolling around, and you don't know if they own or don't own it, whether they're going to pull out a weapon if you've looked at it cross-eyed or you've cut his way in a car, or for some completely unknown reason. We have to tell them it's unacceptable. This law is one way to tell them. That's why I've filed an amendment that I'd like to make more severe penalties for those who carry weapons unauthorizedly. I know what you wanted to accomplish, and I know it was a good intention. It's perfectly legally acceptable, to separate those who don't have a license to own guns at all and those who have a license to own weapons, but who don't have a license to carry. The right to tell you, for those criminals who killed Miroslav Stamenkovic, I am perfectly not interested in whether they had a license to own or not. They weren't supposed to have guns on them. They were not allowed to run around Vlasotin with weapons and endanger the basic values of our society, above all, young lives. I think that's inadmissible. I don't know how many people own guns in this country, I don't know how they got those permits, and I don't know if anyone in the past, from the moment they're allowed to carry guns, maybe 10 years ago to today, checked what's going on with them, really, I don't know. Maybe it is. But given the light weapons in this country, I doubt it. I don't want our kids and our cops and everyone who's fighting for real values to face this. So I want to make it clear to them, and this is an opportunity, that it is absolutely unacceptable to carry a weapon. I strongly advocate that we leave no solution that will allow only fines for those who carry weapons unauthorized. They must be threatened with prison, and that is a form of prevention. Are we gonna solve the problem? We will not solve the problem that way, but we will send a strong message, and we will all solve the problem together as a society with different models, with a strong campaign against weapons, which the whole society must lead – and education, the Ministry of Youth and all others, because it is a problem for the whole society. We must tell our children what we once knew, which is, to paraphrasise Ljubivo Rsumovic – the country defends itself with beauty, and honor, and knowledge and fine education. These are our values. Weapons no, that's not our value and that can't be our value. Minister, please support this solution. With a sign, I won't say it, but with a sign of support for all this stuff I've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7879	MP Elmir Elfic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7880	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable fellow MPs, honourable ministers, the government has sent the National Assembly a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. I don't know if you've been informed, but there's a civil initiative that our coalition has supported, and it's about Article 210, that's about the amendment of Article 210, where we have a situation where, in fact, a change is foreseen from the competent ministry, because the word "15" is changed in the word "10". In fact, this change changes the threshold of defining what falls under petty theft, secretion, fraud. Thus, Article 210, i.e. Article 2, would read that under theft, in secret, fraud is considered to be small if the value of stolen or secreted items, or damage caused by fraud does not exceed the amount of 10,000 dinars, and the unsub came out to obtain a small property benefit, i.e. to cause little damage. I fully agree with my colleague that this is not just a matter of damage done and benefits obtained by those who do, but of creating one uncertainty and frequency of these phenomena, especially in rural areas. There, these thieves, who deal with this activity, are ruthlessly trespassing on property, even the homes of our citizens. It is true that in practice, this member of the Criminal Law showed his weakness and, in a certain sense, created a legal tolerance that encourages the perpetrators of these crimes. I think only bidding, whether that threshold will be 15,000 dinars, 10,000 dinars, or 5,000 dinars, will not solve those problems that happen in practice, or that are happening on the ground. The same Article 210 of Article 1 states that anyone who commits petty theft, evasion or fraud will be punished by fine or imprisonment for up to six months. Paragraph 3 says the prosecution will be conducted according to a private suit. In my view, this sentence is entirely appropriate for those who first commit a crime of this kind and I believe that persons who have repeatedly committed such an act or act should be prosecuted. What creates a major problem on the ground is that the procedure is not initiated by the police, on the basis of official duty, after taking into account the violation and making of the record, not as it has been the case so far, and as it is now proposed, according to a private suit. It is clear to me that this member of the law wants to avoid the suffering of court cases. So it is acceptable for me, but a solution should be sought in good models and moderations, as it has been done in the EU, where special law enforcement judges who, by emergency procedure and short procedures, resolve these disputes are determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7881	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7882	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Your Honors Minister, I would like to start by saying that the Roma Party, as part of the SNS parliamentary club, is very important that the new ministry is and that you, at the head of this ministry, have started immediately, at the earliest stage, to think about and propose solutions in the direction that should remove all the negatives that remain and all the bad things from the past. In that sense, I wouldn't be too long about everything that's good, but I'd like to try, along with you, a few ideas to think about in this part and see if we can make some moves ahead. First of all, it's very good to accept, I'll wait... (President: Continue. The minister is following closely. This is very important and I would like you to help me. I'm sure it's a good thing that you've accepted the European tendency to be valued, as a difficult circumstance in saying the penalty, the fact that the act has been done out of hatred. However, if we look at and analyze how a member is written, then the question is that apart from what you have defined in that article, which is undeniable, it means that the basis of race, religion, national, ethnicity, sex, etc., is not everything. It seems to me that there's only one segment that we might be able to think about together and bring in. We find this segment in some documents of international organisations dealing with human and minority rights. It is a question of culture, i.e. language, as an element which represents the characteristic of a particular group, i.e. members of a particular group. In discussions with representatives of the European Parliament, I asked a question – what is the difference between language and membership of a party organisation? Unlike members of a party organization that you can change every day, when we talk about language, language is the same as religion, and other elements, something you carry with you and what you accept at the time of birth in the family. Some OSCE documents are also talking about it. I can share with you, if you want that information, what does that mean? Take an example, if someone goes to the cemetery and writes graphs on all the monuments on which the names are written with Cyrillic. Was it done for hate? The fact is, motive is hate. I'd like to ask you to think about it together. I was particularly encouraged by this reading of one of the OSCE manuals in which I found it, meaning language. Whether we can go beyond that now or not. I've made one amendment. Look at you, to help bring it down together to a certain reasonable extent. In my opinion, it's undeniable that language is something that should be, in any case, contained here as a feature that can be a motive for applying this difficult situation you're talking about. The other thing is about this moment, I mean, it's not safe enough to do it in a law that's defined in the Criminal Code, but we have to, hopefully, agree here, to take certain other steps. This specifically refers to certain steps in police education, as police are one of these authorities, as well as prosecutors, as well as courts that can identify, investigate and clearly define these motives in some new conditions. If we don't, I'm afraid we're going to have this in law as something that's defined without it being applied in judgments. So much in this part, for now, possibly after the amendments when we talk, so let's see your attitude and formulate and find a common possible solution. First, let me say about this 15,000 as a minimum. I agree with SVM representatives that this should be reduced. I will say very specifically why and why it is important to say that as a representative of the Roma community. We have serious problems in the north of Subotica where these very petty thefts result in the formation of civilian guards, and that some organisations abuse and that there is a possibility of escalating, that is, some problems. If we lower that and if we vote, I, as a representative of the Roma Party within the SNS, give a clear signal to the citizens that we are to condemn those who do so. On the other hand, we're not about to abuse it, so it's supposed to organize certain guards that have a completely different background. It's about the asylum issue. You're absolutely right, and we agree with you that this should be defined. Surely this will make a significant contribution to our efforts to bring us closer to the EU. But there is one dilemma. I talked to the lawyers a little bit, the prosecutors and the judges, they see it from different angles, as it suits them. The basic question of where we might be able to find a solution and to define it a little bit more precisely is this. Is it the person who does the transport, or who arranges the transport of certain persons to a European country, not knowing that this person wants to seek asylum, and that person is simply not aware that he is a false asylumist in relation to what we are talking about, and then at that moment it is defined that he is a false asylumist, is this man who carries the transport a criminal response? It says here, "to perform or organize." So maybe just in that sense. If the minister gives the explanation that this is the case, and tomorrow in court practice really appreciates your explanation here, then that's quite enough. However, if you feel that there is a need to clearly define that one who carries out transport, that one who participates, he must be aware that it really helps someone who does so, if that is well enough for you to define it, then it is enough to give such a message here from a public debate, so that it is not interpreted in one way or another later. I think it's what's in the law, but I'm just making some comments from people who are looking at it from different angles. I would end up with that finding I said at the beginning, that it's extremely good that you in one procedure, which in one process you solve such important issues, that you leave room for conversation and agreement in that direction, and that's the only way to get out of the deep crisis. It's the only way we can really build one legal state, and every other approach isn't really good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7883	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7884	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, during today's debate on several occasions, there is, I can say freely, a statement on the situation in the judiciary. This situation in the judiciary, of course, and the debate on the situation in the judiciary cannot be separated from the debate on these very important laws, which also cover the status issues of judicial holders, as well as material and legal and procedural issues. So, all that's important for the application of by the holders of judicial functions. I can tell you that I have an understanding of the situation that Mr. Secretary inherited. The Democratic Party of Serbia has persistently continued for four years, since 2008, when it entered the reform of the judiciary, has been a very harsh critic. Not only was she a very harsh critic, but in a debate over the large set of laws reforming the judiciary in late 2008. We can say that we regret that our attitudes and criticisms and predictions of these consequences have come true. We think that all the pillars of the judiciary are collapsed in Serbia and that in front of the new ministry, but of course in front of all of us a huge and difficult job – how to get out of this situation and how to replace these four lost years. These are four lost years for the judiciary. Unfortunately, they have brought great problems and great troubles, both to the holders of judicial functions, both primarily and to the citizens. I am not only talking about laws that have dealt with status issues in the judiciary, but also about material and legal regulations, the Law on Prosecution, the Criminal Code, and also about that series of important procedural laws, and we are discussing one of them today, more specifically, its movement, but also the important Law on the litigation and enforcement and security. In that sense, when you look at all the basic pillars of the legislation, but also what makes the living body of the judiciary, it's judges and prosecutors. Here I would, of course, like to mention and thank the colleagues who mentioned it, lawyers and public notebooks. We did not talk much about it, and it is an extremely important matter and a situation in which that part of the judiciary is located and what is actually done here is something that requires a very serious debate in the National Assembly. I want to mention it one more time, because that's what we've done with the amendment, the executor. From the problems that we are following, which relate to the judicial and prosecutorial functions, to problems in various legal chambers, e.g. and in Belgrade, and in the chaos that has arisen in the suspension of the application of the Law on Public Records, the major problems caused by the Law on Implementation and Security or any effect that has led to the introduction of private perpetrators tells us that the situation is such that you need to start dealing with status problems. It's the primary and most important problem. As my colleague Milica Radovic said, we in the National Assembly did not have the opportunity to deal seriously with these status issues. In this regard, I express criticism, for I personally expected that after the government's election it would be the first step in the National Assembly. We simply appeal and point out that early next year must be the first topic, because all segments, from the VSS to the lower, from the Supreme Casation Court and all courts are in trouble. Of course, the question remains, how do you think the application of the new network in the courts is announced? Although we announce that they will be here at the National Assembly by the end of the year, we have not discussed this law. He's caused a lot of trouble. He caused all the chaos in which the judges found themselves, who were forced to travel, to suffer objects, to put up with citizens, to make the courts at great material costs in the cost of witnesses, in travel and everything else. That's more or less everyone who's in the judiciary knows. Without a change in the network of courts, I think it must be the first law in the National Assembly, and we will hardly be able to solve anything successfully with such laws, which are important. In that sense, I share the opinion of everyone who has said that this is an exclusive partial approach. As far as the laws here are concerned, I'd stick to the Code of Criminals because he, looking at the extent to which he intervenes in the text, is the most important. I have to say that my basic impression is that we have different kinds of messages here, that they are very diversifying, that they are unclear and that if they look at the aspect of the values they protect, they do not provide a clear answer to what the biller wanted us to do. On the one hand, we have, so that we don't simply bother, to put them in certain heads, not to waste time, what could be said to have been the fight against corruption, and this could be the solution to public procurement, solutions relating to this new crime - abuse of the position of responsible person, settlement of outcomes in competitions, etc. So that should, according to the message you sent us and we think it's important to include that segment called the fight against corruption. We support it and believe that these solutions are good. However, when it comes to a number of other solutions you're offering here, we don't know what you wanted, or what message in terms of value protection you're sending us. It is the abolition of libel, the abolition of commentary on unfair judgments, solutions relating to the threat of security. We don't understand why these are being reduced, conditionally speaking, by criteria, and why there, the values that are very important in this case, are taking one step back. In addition to the justified need, it is obviously the government's main policy, the fight against corruption, we believe that the values that are protected in these criminal acts, and where there is either the abolition of certain criminal acts or the mitigation of criminal policies, simply one message is sent that creates one image to be led or simply acts demagogue. We didn't get a convincing explanation when it comes to solutions like this. Our MP group has said how they feel about abolishing the crime scene of libel. It simply reacted to the pressure that came from different types of journalists' associations, neglecting that, with the right to do so, the defamation was a criminal act, that slander was done to the greatest extent possible in traffic between citizens. It is not possible only by a regulation to protect honor and dignity. To someone, someone has brought something false to a large number of citizens about him and how important it is to protect his honor and respect. Perhaps if you wanted to solve this problem that relates to the spread of freedom of words, you could have found a solution when it comes to journalists' associations or journalists or even writing. But you will now open one wide space. I personally believe as most of the people who worked here in the judiciary know all the cases when it comes to these private services and what people have come across in their practice when it comes to the crime of defamation. I think it's a dangerous step that won't, and the basic goal that the government apparently had to solve the problem that came from the press associations, to allow the greater freedom of writing, will open up space on the other side entirely. In addition, this part that concerns security threats is very important that you know that we protect, no matter how much it works now, if we are a serious state all the most important institutions and officials not entering into that they represent some particular layer, but they are simply representatives of the state. Here I'm going to point out a few things that we've amended, and we're going to do more in the amendments, but they just seem like a broad picture of what we're talking about. We have submitted an amendment when it comes to the criminal act of obstruction of justice. We believe that court perpetrators should also be protected as lawyers. It cannot be carried out until the end of a verdict brought by a court if the judicial perpetrators are the subject of violence, threats, that even the police cannot help it. You know, this man does his job, he has to make one decision he didn't make, it's a court decision, if they don't. If he's someone who's not protected, if the police don't even protect him, I think the verdicts will remain a dead letter on paper. We believe that besides lawyers, the perpetrators must be someone who will have special attention in this case protected. As for the new crime involving the abuse of a responsible person's position, we think it's very important to separate it and that's something we absolutely accept. But I think you've overestimated the definition of a responsible person. She can create big and serious problems, and even, let me say conditionally both abuses and not hit the target the prosecutor had when he was pressing charges or when a criminal trial is being conducted. So, it is said this way - the person responsible, the legal person, is considered to be a person who, under the law, regulations or authority, performs certain tasks in the management of supervision or other affairs or activities of a legal person. Now comes what we think is very controversial – as is the person who is in fact entrusted with doing these jobs. You know, someone who has all these powers under the law can avoid responsibility based on this. It's just, let me say, I didn't do it, I entrusted it to someone else with my own actions, that because of my influence and power in that legal person, I provided even witnesses to confirm that it was true. That someone who's completely innocent, innocent in one criminal act, gets hurt. We believe this should be erased because it will create enormous problems and possible abuses and will not target those responsible. In any case, our parliamentary group has submitted a large number of amendments and we will participate very actively, these are very important laws, but the impression remains that in a series of interventions this text of the law you have not convinced us, you have not been defined and we believe that these solutions you have offered are not good and will create problems in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7885	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7886	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Secretary, I'm glad you came to Parliament today to discuss these judicial laws. It seems to me that you were the last time we discussed the Amnesty Act. I hope with these laws you'll have better luck than with that Amnesty Act. I'd like to inform you, if you don't already know that courts have huge problems in applying this Amnesty Act, so it would be really good whenever a law is proposed to give a good thought to what is the ultimate goal and what is the policy that wants to be achieved with the bill, especially when it comes to very sensitive issues of crime, when it comes to justice, courts, prosecutors, etc. I have also read the reasons for the law and the reasons for the urgency of the procedure in this House. I am glad that these reasons are somehow related to the EU, I am glad that they are related to the compliance of domestic rules with EU rules and that you really want to comply with all regulations with ratified international agreements. So that is one message sent to the public that this government has serious intentions for EU integration. However, it somehow comes into some conflict with the messages you send, specifically you as a minister of justice, when you demonstrate in front of the building of this congregation during the meeting of the Assembly with some thousands of people. So you as a minister, you as part of the executive government, so the man who's in power and as a graduate lawyer, are doing something that's simply illegal, which is at least a violation. Because we have some law on public gatherings, which simply doesn't allow to be demonstrated in front of the Assembly during the assembly session. So, you had to know all this, and yet you just didn't respect the law. This is inadmissible because these are not EU rules. Then what's going on? We talk one thing, the other we do. You know, one serious state that claims to be between the other and the rule of law, I don't think it's allowed. Therefore, if the minister of justice does not thus appreciate the country's positive regulations in this case, he should bear certain consequences. It's just one remark to the fact that you cited as one of the reasons for making changes and supplementing the Criminal Code. If I understand your argument correctly today and if I have read these reasons correctly among other things, you're talking about wanting to change your criminal policy in terms of reducing repressive aspirations. On the other hand, as one of the reasons why you're talking about the fight against corruption, you're talking about the abolition of certain anachronic crimes, and now we're coming back into some kind of cohesion. If you are reducing the repressivity of the Criminal Code, and you want to fight corruption, it simply cannot be agreed because corruption and organised crime is such a serious pain of this country that the state has to use all its mechanisms to prevent corruption from growing, prevent organised crime from emerging, and in any event it is working to reduce these negative social phenomena. By reducing repression in criminal acts, you will hardly achieve it. You're always talking about the wrongs of the predecessors and I agree, there have been mistakes, as always will be, whenever someone does something and more is done, there are more mistakes. However, who have missed these new authorities, something is not said, it is not mentioned, simply, there is no time from this great fight against corruption and organised crime, and there is much that prevents this fight from being really serious and based on the law and on positive regulations. You, for example, have abolished certain crimes. You have abolished a criminal offence involving commenting on court proceedings. I remind you that this crime was on the agenda of the Assembly in 2010, when it was also on the agenda and the information law. That was the call to the information law, and somehow it went through in silence and background and this solution, as far as commenting on court decisions is concerned. I assume that you had an interest in ending this crime, so that you wouldn't come to some sort of conflict of action for the rule of law, which violates the law, namely a certain crime by one of the ministers who is the most prominent figure when it comes to fighting corruption. You have noted that you want somehow to install these European standards into this criminal code and I have read these crimes, abuse of official position and abuse of a responsible person and I have not seen anything European here, because in European countries, such crimes, in this form as it exists in our Criminal Code, do not exist. So, whatever you're making up these crimes and as much as you're talking about, it's some kind of improvement in the state's relationship with all those who commit certain crimes, it's abuse of official office or responsible person, but it's not true. That is not true, because in these criminal acts, you have neither defined the intention nor the opposition, nor defined the property benefit, and that contradiction is linked to the property benefit of this criminal act of the abuser, because when you talk about the illegality of the property benefit, you do not know what it refers to, because the property benefit or anything else is in fact just one consequence of certain actions that must have a certain opposite, in order to produce that benefit. Here I really don't see why you were in such a hurry to propose the Code of Criminals, and then we'll get back to the situation that in a few weeks, in what month we're changing this law, if you seriously mean what you've stated here in the reasons for the law being passed, under one, and to put the law in an emergency procedure on the agenda of the Assembly. When we talk about this over-repressiveness, I really don't see why it was necessary to erase the attitude of Article 3(8), I think, which concerns the threat of the security of judges, prosecutors, journalists, the President of the Republic, politicians, why we deleted it, and why we're simply talking about doing something that is humane, when people who are convicted are mentioned, and have the right to automatic parole, and on the other hand, you leave all those who have to process it, to carry out the proceedings, and ultimately, to be the direct perpetrators of this fight against corruption. If that's your goal to reduce that repression in the Criminal Code, I think it's a little strange, because you're coming back into this conflict between what you represent as your goal, and on the other hand, how you intend to achieve that goal. What you give to convicted persons on the one hand, on the other hand, you take away those who bear the greatest burden of fighting organised crime and corruption. I would really no longer talk about these laws, because I believe that none of these solutions are relevant, that something will improve criminal legislation, or the work of courts, or in any way change the climate in the country, as far as crime is concerned, or corruption. It's very interesting, let's say, in this Article 12, which applies to Article 112, when you define what a person is responsible, you, among other things, state or other legal person's activities. It is okay when you consider responsible persons in a legal person to be a person who, under the laws, regulations or powers, performs certain management and supervision tasks. When you add that – or other legal persons' activities, it means that anyone who works in that legal person can be a responsible person and may be subject to this criminal sanction provided for in this criminal act, abuse of a responsible person. That's one example of what you could have changed, so you missed something. So, as I started, it's very important that you really decide what you want and then think about how you think about achieving that goal. Now, with such bill proposals, you'll hardly be able to deal with what's so publically presented as the basic policy of this government, which is a clear fight against corruption and organised crime. Please, come to parliament, talk to parliamentary groups, ask for the opinions of all parliamentary groups, ask for a general national consensus on this struggle, without any abuse of your position, any minister, but clearly and loudly, let's find a common denominator, let's work together to make a plan. Here you don't even consider the plan that's supposed to exist when you're talking about a criminal offence involving public procurement. It is not only public procurement when it is debated whether or who it will be who will co-operate with the legal person about public procurement. Public procurement is a plan of what to do and when to get it. If you drop that segment, you're free of a new crime. So it's always a matter of little matter, but it's a very important matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7887	Thank you. The People's Messenger Paul Markov has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7888	Dear President, Minister of Parliament, firstly I would like to highlight the importance of today's agenda from a set of judicial laws, which begins solving problems in one of the pillars, which has been devastated in the past and brought to one of the most difficult levels since the moment of its existence. It is impossible to bring any serious debate on the subject of judicial laws, not to mention the causes and current consequences, i.e. the enormous burden of the problems that you, Mr. Minister, have taken with your associates, as a promoter of this set of laws, to take over. Namely, by the disastrous reform of the judiciary, or by calling it a reform, that a political party in power, took the right to bring down one of the greatest values of the judiciary, which is independence, and thus, in spite of the economic downturn, brings the state to ruin the system of values, justice and all that the judiciary carries with it. Criminally -- by legal language, democracy has collapsed in its essence, and thus suffered another defeat, and we have received another international slap, and each visit to Brussels and international institutions asks us first – what about the judiciary? The previous government and the competent minister, with their behaviour and political wandering around the judiciary, have also caused further consequences, which are reflected in the creation of dissent and anger of citizens towards judicial officials, which has led to the same poor perception of corruption in the judiciary, which is confirmed by statistical research that from the application of the reform, the judiciary has been placed high third in corruption, right behind political parties and health, which is unthinking an institution that would naturally have to deal with corruption issues. After all, I believe that the absurdity and peak of defeat is in the fact that everyone is dissatisfied, and the citizens who go according to justice and justice and those who grant it justice and justice. Restlessness, uncertainty and fear of judges and prosecutors after so-called reforms are the same intensity as citizens who address these institutions. So today's Law supplementing the Law on Judges and the Law on the Completion of the Public Prosecutor's Law, we open up a part of a huge problem, which should be dealt with in a legal and systematic manner in the coming calendar year. Of course, these two laws have been extorted, that we will adopt them because we have been forced in a certain way, that the trail of events has passed and that we will not solve this huge problem, but it is very important that we have already started a long-term process of creating a rule of law this year. What we are forced to do as a priority in the future promotion of these two laws is depolitisation, justice, independence of the judiciary, independence of the prosecution, promotion of professions and judicial codes. After all, it is a constitutional obligation, which we must always refute in a restrictive manner and in accordance with these principles. As regards the Bill on Amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which you have also proposed under the duress of your predecessors, for reasons of serious lack of normative and practical nature, the importance of viewing your response and determination to adapt to our climate and to a serious revision of the same law. The next law in that set of laws is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, and here I point out the clear intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a proponent, to practically and not, as so far, declare its position against crime and corruption and thereby justify all the reasons for the adoption of this law. Primarily, the harmonisation of legislative matter with modern concepts of the fight against crime, the decriminalisation of overcome, anachronous and practical, non-applicable crimes, as well as those that endanger important values, the interests of citizens and society, and the introduction of new crimes, required by the emergence of new forms of criminal behaviour. I believe that the proposed changes and additions are necessary, that these solutions are dramatically improved and defined by legal solutions, and that they follow country recommendations to fight corruption, the Council of Europe GRECO. In this direction, the proposal to amend Articles 45, paragraphs 5 and 6. The criminal code, which regulates the prison sentence, which is carried out in the rooms in which the convicted resides. Following the introduction of this possibility in 2009, there have been marked problems and unequal treatment in court practice, due to unclear and conflicting legal provisions. The proposed changes remove existing dilemmas and unacceptable solutions. Here, I would merely point out to the competent ministry to pay attention to the surveillance procedure, because this institute covers the defendants who are sentenced to prison sentences up to one year, and this can in practice be a serious physical injury or serious theft, which could lead to the possibility of abuse of such a solution by the court. Article 4 By law, the provision of Article 46(1) shall be amended. KZ, which instead of a college introduction, introduces mandatory parole, in case the legal conditions are met. The parole is a criminal-legal measure, which is exclusively, of a particularly preventive nature, so that the issue of general prevention, when deciding on parole, should be irrelevant. Article 6 of the Law also introduces a daunting mandatory circumstance for hate crimes, and I find it very important circumstances, enhanced social tensions and moments of a variety of hate deepening, which provides adequate protection for certain social groups, whose members are victims of various crimes, which appear precisely because of this belonging. With regard to the ban on the approximation and communication of the damaged, as referred to in Article 89, which changes the duration of this measure, the State clearly provides for enhanced protection of damaged persons. In the area of property crimes, I consider it a valid proposal to lower the property censorship of petty theft, evasion, fraud, because the change in this amount covers the prosecution of public prosecution to a greater number of perpetrators. It is often the situation that citizens are victims of such petty crimes because of the socio-economic situation and the low standard of sacrifice, which for many are not petty, and damaged citizens do not have the strength or the ability to recover stolen goods. Doers know this very well, so they've reported so often that they're assessing stolen things. The target is all, lately, agricultural products that serve food, which is the only way for many citizens to survive, and therefore this crime is one of the most represented in the territory of Vojvodina. It is also a very interesting new criminal act, agreements and outcomes of the competition, because it is obvious that many competitions are held by reforms, and that the results are pre-known, which would allow one-of-a-kind earning, so this criminal part opens up the possibility of investigating crime in sport. Article 22 of the law introduces a new criminal offence, abuse of public procurement, which should have long been part of this law, especially given how much money is being spent irrationally and in a suspicious way. It is unnecessary to further explain the importance and social harmfulness of this crime, in a situation where the state is increasingly poorer and individuals, public procurement bearers increasingly richer. Respecting the new Public Procurement Act, such a solution will contribute to the additional security of the state. Prevention may be a little late, but apparently only now are conditions created. I'd like to distinguish the crime from Article 336b. Article 2 The KZ, which equalises lawyers with the judge, prosecutor or his deputy, with regard to providing criminal and legal protection, is of equal importance to the smooth work of the judiciary. At the same time, I hope that this attitude of the state towards law enforcement will find an adequate response, and that will return to raising the quality of its work and attitude towards the citizens. With respect to the circumstances, that I have late sent you a proposal to comment on the law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, and that for this reason I have not addressed the amendments, I hope you will consider them for these reasons for the next set of amendments to the law, which I hope will soon come to us. I will only list a few examples, which is that, in my assessment, it may be possible to consider a reduction in the time limit provided for in Article 66(3). The KZ, which prohibits sentence of parole, if it has not been more than five years since the conviction, which has given the perpetrator the sentence of imprisonment for a deliberate crime. I think it would have been quite enough to rock and roll for three years. The suspension of Article 49 may be considered. The KZ, which provides for the imposition of fines in daily amounts, since this method of measuring penalties is fully inapplicable in practice, as it requires the delay of criminal proceedings and the unnecessary duration of the same. And if it is impractical, it is seen by the court that does not apply it. In the end, I will conclude that this set of laws is viewed as the beginning of a long-term systematic job, in order to repair the situation in the judiciary and thus the whole society. Dear Ministers, you have one of the most difficult tasks, which is that one huge, complex system of justice and state administration, devastated and humiliated in each segment with inherited debts, return to a path that will retain everything that the greats of the Faculty of Law have fought for in Belgrade without which there will be no social, intellectual and economic development of our country. I will especially highlight your commitment to teamwork and that in this difficult process you have included a large number of recognised and professional institutions and that you are listening fundamentally to the opinion of serious legislators and practices. In this respect, the SNS gives you full support and in the voting day we will support your laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7889	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7890	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in this debate, we have again several things that are essentially tied together to the judiciary, but are fundamentally different. This is a bill on the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure and this second one concerning the choice of judges and the choice of prosecutors. So different things are about the judiciary. We have to get through one discussion... (Free Homen, from the place: Excuse me, did you change the order? )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7891	The MPs have switched with each other. I found a changed list like this, and I have to go on with it. Here you go, Mr. Michael. I'll give you time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7892	We have one debate through which we have to touch each other's things and put all of this into the function of real life and in the function of the citizens at all. Unlike distinguished counterpart Popovic, what she is looking forward to, that the main reason for the adoption of this EU law is that I would be most fortunate to see that the main reason for this law is the interest of Serbian citizens. This is why we have to do all of this and why we should work to pass these laws, that the interest of Serbian citizens is above the interest of the EU or some others who do not know until the end of relations in Serbia and what this society needs. Of course, the laws and harmonisation of these laws with the needs of society are something we need. We therefore welcome the adoption and introduction of some new crimes, related to match-fixing, corruption. These are crimes that must certainly accompany events and circumstances in social relations and that must standardise the phenomena that are evident, which is that there is a match-fixing, that corruption has affected all the pores of society and that, in the very words of the EU, which we are calling on, Vensana Dežera, since 2007, is progressing in Serbia, galloping it to reach its maximum this year. We as the DSS have criticised reform in a judiciary that was not a reform, but a general setback in the judiciary. It is no easy task for you to clear the Augie barns that have remained behind your predecessors and solve the problems and the High Council of Justice and what we are solving with this law, the failure of the High Council of Justice. We have judges who have not been re-elected, who have been returned to work by a decision of the Supreme Court, and we have come to the situation of calling our reform of the judiciary to be the subject of both the Council of Europe and the European Commission, which have suggested that this reform stop and go back to where it was before that reform and start with those changes that will bring some benefit to this country. We expect you to take seriously the High Council of Justice and the Network of Courts next year and in general create a new system that will be in line with Serbia's needs, not with the praises we expect from the EU, the Council of Europe and some other places. We should be interested in adapting our judicial system to the interests and needs of the citizens of Serbia and the state that we should build and these crimes that we are introducing to the judiciary itself, so I expect all together to solve the chaos that has been left behind, which we have inherited. In us you'll always have partners to move from the point we're at right now, for the better of this situation. This is just one part of the problem we have and that you inherited. I'm going to spend a little more time defaming the libel as a special offense. I sincerely hope you've made a good assessment that now is the right time to end this defamation crime, to wipe it out of our public order. I believe you have good judgments that our society is mature enough and responsible for such a measure. I assume you consider that the level of tolerance and understanding at a level that can endure defamation as a common phenomenon in our society. Unlike you, I'm not sure that our society is at that level that can stand the abolition of the crime of slander. This crime has not been abolished in Britain, England, or in any other European country whose legislation we have seen ourselves through the history of Serbia, whether it is France, Germany, Austria, Italy. It exists in all these legislations and obviously, according to us, there is a need for us to keep this crime in Serbia as well. We believe that the elimination of the crime of slander would only produce additional tensions, restore some traditional ways of solving the injury of honor and reputation and cheek and mutilation of the cheek, which exists with us. It would only cause further expansion of tension, impatience and bring justice back to the hands of the citizens. Only the existence of a crime of defamation acts and preventively against those who feel that they can or would resort to this criminal act and punishment which is monetary and punishment in itself, enrolment that he is punished and responsible and that he is guilty of this crime, is satisfactory and is a prevention that we need. In line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe, we have changed this crime twice. For the first time, the prison for the defamation of the crime was suspended, and the second time the prosecution was suspended under official defamation duty against the state authorities. We've brought slander only to the verdict that the one who made the libel is guilty. That's one. Two, only on a fine ending in the Republic of Serbia's budget, not as in procedural matters, a civil lawsuit, where it's a satisfaction from whoever sued. The particularity of the defamation of the crime is also seen in the fact that only with insults and slanders throughout the legislation is the burden of proof on the defendant, not on the prosecutor. By putting a criminal act of defamation into the civil proceedings, the burden of proof would be on the prosecutor. So the D.A. would have to prove that he didn't do what someone was slandering him for. Take, for example, the crime scene of slander. I say Professor Petar Peric in his study suggested that he give her a positive assessment from her exams if she goes with him to have coffee after the exam. I say so and do the defamation crime this way, through the means of public information, which is an even more difficult form, and that professor in question is not available to sue me for the crimes of slander, although I do realize that this professor was not at all in college that day, and I am committing a defamation. The professor doesn't have a chance. He can start a lawsuit, and in that lawsuit, he needs to prove that he didn't commit that crime on that day, that he didn't offer that student an exam for a favor to drink coffee or anything else, that he didn't do anything I defamed him of, until it was up to me, as the law now provides, that I would prove, if that professor in question sued me for the defamation of the crime, that he did what I was talking about. There's a big difference between the two proceedings being conducted now under the Criminal Procedure Act and the civil procedure to be conducted, where it's the responsibility of the prosecutor to prove that he didn't do it, not that he's slandering, as things are now, that he needs to prove that he did it. I think we should consider carefully once again whether to erase the defamation of our legislation. We believe that it is still early for this, if it is not done by countries where tolerance, security at a much higher level than we have, that it is necessary to wait for another and better time when human relations in Serbia will be better and when self-awareness of these crimes will be at a much higher level, the net that is now. Especially given when in Serbia honor and cheek are more important than the material satisfaction it will receive through some long-term litigation process. It's more important for them to find guilty of being slandered than for him to get some cash compensation. When it comes to cash compensation, through litigation, if we consider that the perpetrators, whom we propose to be protected by this law as judges and lawyers, if that perpetrator who needs to implement the decision, which is a satisfaction in a litigation procedure for the one whom someone is slandered, and he can't do it, then what is the end of it, the satisfaction of the one whom someone falsely accused of doing something. He's not gonna get that satisfaction in the end. For our people, it is much more important that they are not the amounts and amounts they will receive, which are also small compared to honor and reputation, which are injured by someone. So we have opportunities through the amendments and the government itself to consider whether the right way and the time to end the defamation of the crime is right? It is simply necessary to ensure freedom of information in another way, not by abolishing the criminal act of slander with which we met at various levels through judicial and judicial practice, from the fight of neighbors to the fact that the libels are in the media. Consider it one more time. I see colleagues from the ruling coalition are for, from the SPS and the URS, not to erase the defamation crime. I suppose they will vote for such a law, regardless of what they said in the debate they were against, but most MPs think this is not the right time to end the defamation. What is also important is to lift the ban on commenting on the verdict. I agree that the confidentiality of the information in the court proceedings should not be presented, but commenting on the verdict before its jurisdiction, while it was only brought first degree or during the debate itself, is something that is not good. Puts all participants in the process in an unequal position. Those participants in the procedure they are presumed to be more materially wealthy, are in a position to use information means and in any other way to protect themselves, to create a media climate and through it to put pressure on the court itself. It's something that's not acceptable. It does not provide all their constitutions with a guaranteed right to court, equality before the court, and therefore we believe that there is a need to provide the public with judicial proceedings, so that everyone is aware of what is happening before the court, but there is no need to abolish the ban on commenting on judgments. Especially not while there's a court case and before his justice. It is one measure that can help citizens to be unequal in court, where those who are more wealthy, who can provide themselves with an interview in some newspapers, to print their contributions, submissions, pamphlets that will convince the public and thus pressure the court. So it is necessary to consider the moderations of this measure and the abolition of this crime and, in other words, to ensure the public in the process. We from the DSS welcome, on the one hand, some criminal acts and the government's intention to address certain situations and to standardise certain relationships and phenomena in society such as corruption, match-fixing and mitigation of individual sanctions and tightening others. We also believe that it is too early to abolish slander, completely abolish the ban on commenting on court proceedings and judgments and that it is necessary to work a little faster to resolve the issue of the High Council of Justice, the network of courts and the general adaptation of the entire judicial system, the citizens of Serbia, and not the EU or anyone else, because we are all here because of citizens. To adapt our system in order for our country to function better and work more in the interests of citizens and to ensure their rights and through judicial proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7893	The word has a People's MP, Free Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Cosic, I'm glad we're discussing a set of justice laws today. One is really significant, these are changes to the Criminal Law that are relatively large, not excessively large, but there are very significant changes. Three other smaller laws, which I would not overly discuss because the changes are minimal, but I don't think they have that much importance until more extensive changes are made for the ZKP in the Assembly, as the minister announced. Then we'll be able to discuss these changes in more detail. The essence of fighting corruption and organised crime is double. Number one, to punish specific crimes. So someone did some crime out of this KZ or changed KZ, and he's supposed to go to jail. I think that in addition to personal and individual responsibilities, there is one far more important. It's general prevention. You, with general prevention, are sending a message, not only to this criminal, but to everyone else not to commit these crimes, because they will be punished, financially, by taking away property and eventually going to jail. Why do I mention general prevention, especially if I'm talking about changes in KZ? This code was amended in 2009. We were in this assembly with changes and the basic idea was to sharpen criminal policy. Why the tightening of criminal policy? Because we realized that Serbia's courts have the practice of imposing relatively mild sentences and for the most serious crimes, from classical crime, from murder, rape, and to corrupting crimes. In that sense, I would like to discuss more in detail the amendments to these laws concerning the change of criminal policy. This law reminds very much of the bill that we referred to this assembly in January as the previous government. There are a lot of touch points, but there are certain novelties. I do not want to just criticise today, I would also like to commend certain things in this law that have been done on the principle of European integration, i.e. by harmonising with the conventions of the Council of Europe. When I say this first of all, I mean a question of terrorism that is well regulated, or acts related to terrorism. I'm here to support the abolition of the libel's criminal act. I ask the question of the Minister, and I would like him to answer me why it was not done the same with a criminal offense because it was one of the questions asked by the European Commission, so let me see why such an attitude is taken and why it is not covered by both suspensions? As for other things in the law, there are a number of good ones. So, for example, hate crime, these are some things that really need to be supported. What interests me most, and what personally makes me the biggest problem is a few changes that I think, through the amendments that we've submitted, you'll have a chance to look at them. Some are simple to delete the proposed changes, while others are slightly expanding existing crimes. If you have understanding after this broader discussion and explanation, there may be a possibility that we can support this law in this context. What's my key is to ban the mitigation of penalties below the legal minimum that you're now erasing from the law. I have to say in my own language, not to speak excessively professionally, the law provides for changes in 2009 to some of the most severe crimes cannot be imposed below the legal minimum. I'm going to illustrate and I'm going to be very simple. For example, crimes of rape, crimes of pedophilia, these are acts that we felt should not be imposed under the minimum, because there are no extenuating circumstances for this type of crime. That was a basic idea. We were in a situation, analyzing a criminal policy to give a six-month sentence and even a probationary sentence, which the ministry knows very well because it has complete analysis that we've been doing. I appeal and we have proposed such an amendment that this is in no way thrown out of the law, because we believe that these crimes are far more dangerous than any other crime or even criminal acts of corruption. Attacking life and body, murder and rape is the hardest thing that can happen to anyone. I think such acts must have special protection, and this is the only guarantee that an adequate punishment will really be imposed. Besides, there was also drug trafficking, but I'm saying, for me, it's a priority of these two types of criminal acts, because looking at history, looking at analysis, they were really very mild sentences for both paedophiles and rapists, and I think it only goes in favor of the ministry, in favour of the government, because you're making sure that such cases are being followed by media, that you'll always have a problem when the court gives a minor sentence, and that's going to happen very often to you. The other thing that is extremely important to me in the law is the threat of security. We have witnessed years ago that there have been a large number of attacks and threats against journalists. I don't mind erasing the part that concerns politicians here, the part that concerns MPs, but there is one amendment that we have extended, which some MPs will probably talk about later, which is that it is mandatory that this act remains a threat to the safety of journalists, because we are witnessing that organised right-wing groups have practice and thus trying to put pressure on journalists. There are certain trials in progress that go according to this point 3. I'm afraid those faces will be released when we say this, and that's less important. The important thing is that I don't think we're going to have adequate protection for journalists. You know the press associations were looking for something else, which we didn't think could be defined properly, which is that they have official status, because by that definition, the editor would order the journalist, so he would have to respect what he wrote. This was the only way to protect one qualified form for journalists through a security threat. That's what I'm appealing for, and I don't think it's important that it disturbs the law to keep that kind of thing in the law. The third thing is extremely important, and it's also about what happened two days ago, killing a police officer, and I don't think there's any reason to ease criminal policy. These are criminal acts related to the holding and carrying of weapons. We have provided for a very strict sentence, from two to 12 years old, but not by chance, because with a two to 12-year sentence, you determine on one side the jurisdiction of the court. So the Supreme Court is deciding, which was extremely important. On the other hand, you don't have the possibility of eradicating parole. I'm afraid, now that we're talking about carrying guns without permission, that, as so far as these amendments to the law, most of them will be paroled. The person who killed the cop two days ago, they were armed, they were carrying guns. What makes it easier for both the police and the D.A.'s office? It's enough for you to stop a person with a deeper record on the street as a cop, only to find a weapon in his car, he goes to jail for at least two years, two to 12, and you're a serious number of criminals who may not have done a crime yet, but they intend to, prepare to carry a weapon, get off the street. There's no reason for this crime to ease the penalty. I could agree with item two, where you're for people who already have a license to hold, you've passed a certain kind of control, you don't know how to carry, you go with lenient punishment. If you'd suggested that, we'd have an understanding. We need to see if there's any way to do an amendment or alteration here, but I think you really need to separate this. People who carry guns without any documentation, don't wear guns because they like to carry guns, they're aware of prison sentences, they're criminals. A specific case is the murder of a police officer. I appeal, if there is a possibility, that you will be much help to the police in her work, to the prosecution to facilitate the prosecution of these acts, if this amendment is to be singled out. Finally, something where I don't have a final solution. I have one more question for you, Mr. Minister, to give me an explanation. It's a member of the 359th abuse of official position. The previous ones talked a lot. It is clear to all that the "responsible person" is deleted, that it becomes a new member. My question is – are you sure, because I don't think so, that this change is enough in terms of GRECO recommendations, a group of countries to fight corruption of the Council of Europe. They gave us 15 recommendations. Five concerns corrupt crimes, 10 funding political activities. These 10 refer to the Law on the financing of political parties, and these five refer precisely to corrupting crimes. I don't think it's enough and that all the necessary changes aren't covered. Why am I saying this? Otherwise, if I'm right, you'll be back in the National Assembly somewhere within the next six months, and we'll have to do an additional harmonisation of the law. But that's not the key to me. The key question is this – what happens to the procedures that are under way? I tried that question with lawyers who are serious culprits to consult, to see. What's an epilogue? When we abolish as a National Assembly member of 359th position, the part relating to responsible persons, do these faces go free? Is there any possibility that they might be requalified to a new act? The problem is that the new act will only come into effect, it did not exist at the time of the crime. According to some analysis we've been doing, several hundred people accused of the most serious corrupt crimes are covered by the notion of a responsible person. Will all those faces go free? Will the lawyers be able to point out their objections? So my question is essentially, I don't want to make a decision on behalf of the court, after all, the Court of Appeal will take a position, have you consulted the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the Special Prosecutor's Office? Do you have a list of those faces, the number of those faces, and did they give you an answer on how they would act? Because from some Karic, to all others who are accused of abuse of official office, even to Miskovic, who will be or will be, it doesn't matter, they would be automatically released. It is not the purpose of fighting corruption, organised crime to arrest persons without being prosecuted, because the right message is if we find enough evidence to end up in prison, or take away property, all that is the purpose of a trial and ultimately, not to prejudge, to be released, if there is not enough evidence. So my question is a very serious question. If we vote this out, what happens to a few hundred cases that are under way? I'll remind you of one more thing. I guess it's a lot easier that the indictment wasn't filed, that it was an investigation, but there are cases that a first-degree verdict was made, and the second one wasn't. Indeed, that is where the court is to be consulted, that someone should say they will act, because the worst thing is that all persons accused of serious corruption in the country go free. That's three essential questions for me. If I were to get an answer to these questions and if we had the understanding that these amendments would be adopted, I think we could really pass this law. There are a number of other things, but I don't think they're essential. In the end, I just want to ask one thing, and we've been listening to an MP speak both from the SNS and from the DSS, my request is that we don't make it easy to qualify for the work of predecessors. It's going to cause replicas on our part, and I think the essence of our work, at least tonight, is to focus very specifically, as I was saying, on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7895	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7896	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, SPO and DHSS do not deal with politics, demagogy, or pulsism in this matter. We want that in the shortest, for what the Minister is waiting for, and he knows what the inherited situation is, and we will give an assessment of the inherited situation, as soon as possible, that there was no judicial system with us until 2000. By then, the judiciary had been dealt with, people say, by women of rich men and criminals, and they were considered judges by incompetent men who were then in the judiciary. The dignity of judicial professions and the judiciary and the beginning of reforms begins with Mr Vladan Batic, who fulfilled the pre-election promise of the then DOS coalition, returned to a large extent the dignity and honour of the court profession and raised salaries for the then incredible 1,000 marks. However, the many changes to criminal legislation that followed were largely similar to those discussed today. These were mostly changes that had good intentions. The majority of the solutions were good, but there were also those solutions, as with these amendments to the Criminal Code, which are minorityally bad and which certainly, with certain repairs and acceptance of the amendments submitted by our parliamentary group, can receive a transitional assessment. I will not be overly concerned with the past, but we should know that in 2000, Serbia only had signed a few conventions on human rights. Today, in 2012, almost all international conventions on human rights have been signed, and when we talk about justice, especially criminal and legal matter, it seems to us that in addition to the situation of the judge, prosecutors, police, changes in normative, we need in the first place to have a citizen who can come under the influence of criminal law tomorrow. Several years ago, it seems to me during Minister Stojkovic's term of office that there were about 30 different changes and additions to criminal legislation. When the last changes occurred in 2009, we had a situation that Mr. Homen was partly talking about, which, I think, maybe 70% or 80% of the people who committed the crimes of the robbery received a sentence below the legal minimum. A similar situation was with those who dealt drugs, as well as with thieves and paedophiles. We had a situation that one of the bishops had an out-of-date criminal procedure for sexual abuse of a minor, another bishop for pedophilia, that Mark Milosevic had become obsolete for violent conduct and that justice, justice and a fair trial within a reasonable time had been a far-reaching dream of our people. Meanwhile, the position and legal certainty of our citizens have been improved, and they can be gained today, in terms of the protection of human rights, and international legal protection. What I want to talk about is that the SPO-DHSS did not believe, after its great efforts not to make Serbia as it is today in 2012, I must say that we are not satisfied with the degree of criminal and legal security and normatives achieved. It is certain that what is now reminding me of what happened in the 1970s and 1980s in Italy, when Italy brought it, seems to me, over 160 amendments to criminal legislation in the fight against corruption and organised crime at the time. When the fight ended, Italy entered a stable era against corruption and crime. I'll tell you what today seems to me, a little bit like he said in this room. One of the basic conditions for a good and organised fight against corruption and organised crime is the fight against corruption and crime in the judiciary itself. If we have the statistics we have, it's black, then we can't say about the changes in criminal law and the reforms that followed in 2009, I don't want to talk about them just praises, that they were catastrophic. They were absolutely necessary. Many of the judges and prosecutors you have now returned to work, you have surely heard a lot of comments – where you returned these to us. Hence, it is too serious to approach it so easily. What SPO-DHSS is interested in is – why does parole go according to automation, where the judge is absolutely the referent and where does he, after meeting certain conditions, have to make a decision on parole? Why is it limited to the rights of lawyers to be defenders of many cases? I think that defamation, regardless of the warrant of Europe and the European Commission, will bring organized chaos into our and such unstable society. I feel the same way about commenting on court decisions. I don't think it's a good idea to call for the responsibility of whoever reported the bribe, because we're at the rate of corruption in healthcare the fourth country in the world. The disputed solution is to abuse the official position. I think the non-payment of health insurance contributions... (President: Time, Mr. Chikiriz. I'm done. ... put all responsible persons in a position to be held liable sooner or later. Finally, I want to say, when you consider our amendments, the SPO-DHSS will, in a very constructive and reasoned debate, make a final decision on whether to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7897	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7898	Ladies and gentlemen, the context in which we are discussing four amendments to the law can be described with a little mild cynicism – whoever wants to comment on these proposals to amend and supplement the law as a contribution to judicial reform, defamation of these laws. It is good if the libel is missing, since three of the four laws that are before us have one member, which are quite minimal and there is a minister quite right when he said that the minimum and necessary are more technical. The first is the draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Act. The bill has a total of three members, one of which speaks about the entry into force, and two of them, to say "January 15th 2013," are replaced by "October 1st 2013". That's all it says in this law. I therefore claim that slander is every remark that speaks of the contribution to judicial reform or reform of the Criminal Procedure Act. The second law ahead is the draft law supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, which also has three members, one of which speaks of entry into force. The first talks about adding a member talking about the entry of deputy public prosecutors into permanent office, because they were elected to three years, legitimately and legally by the ministry, but again it is a defamation of the claim that this in any way contributes to judicial reform, because there are ways to resolve this differently. One solution is that the same member also refers to the draft law supplementing the Law on Judges. He's got three members. One is when it comes into force, and the other two, one announces a member who determines that judges who have been elected for three years, enter permanent functions. The context is that many, very often argued, on my part very carefully heard criticism of judicial reform, with very loud and ghastly announcements that, as soon as possible, all mistakes will be corrected or started all over again, show that, or it was not meant seriously when judicial reform was criticised, or there is no proposal for better than what regulations are prescribed and described by the judiciary at the moment and with us. That's what these three laws, of four, speak very clearly, no matter how much effort we make to say – listen to what I'm saying, don't look at what I'm doing. The laws are before us and anyone who wants these three laws, with a total of eight members in all three, to present as a repair of judicial reform or a contribution to the fight against corruption, defamation. That's why it's good to have that slander thrown out of the law. The law that is before us and which is truly serious about the debate is the Criminal Code. At first, I will say what I consider to be good as a proposal and what I already had as information, given one part of these provisions that were written in the bill in January of this year. So, additional members who define the crime of terrorism, members who define negotiating the outcome of the competition, members who define abuses in connection with public procurement. What's left of the dilemma, for me, is a dilemma that was practically founded during this debate are members who are being defamed. If too many MPs have a dilemma about whether or not this member of the Criminal Code should be abolished, then I am more inclined to support amendments from the MPs, whoever submitted them, to which this act remains in the law, because there is no need to correct what is not corrupt. If there was a clean and clear picture and an argument as to why it should be removed, I would support it, but it's too much argument and it's too much dilemma. Personally, until I listened to this debate, I was with an argument in the belief that the crime of slander should not exist in our law, no matter how difficult it was to deal with slander and defamation in any other way than to attribute. But it's progress, it's always hard. What was left without an answer was the change of the famous member 359, which was the subject of the European Commission and the report, therefore, of the abuse of the official position. I would be interested to hear the Minister loud and clear – what is the European Commission's objection and what is the recommendation? What we heard, it doesn't agree that we know that the European Commission said. In what way will article 359 be applied on the abuse of official office? Finally, Article 13 of the amendment and the addition of the Criminal Code, which concerns Article 138 to which I have submitted the amendment, refers to the threat to the security of the person. It is recalled that the third position of that member relating to the President of the Republic, the MPs, the Prime Minister, the members of the Government, the Judges of the Constitutional Court, the Public Prosecutor, the Deputy Prosecutor and the persons performing matters of public importance in the field of information, in relation to the affairs he conducts. So whoever threatens these people will be punished by a prison of one to eight years. This article provides for erasure. It was introduced with suggestions from the professional public and journalists. There remains a dilemma, whether or not to be erased, and I see that this dilemma exists in various MPs. So, with the same argument, as in the case of slander, since it is obvious that it is not clever enough, thoughtfully and decided, I will support the amendments made by other MPs asking for this third position in Article 138 on the threat of security to remain. The amendment I have submitted to the same article is an amendment adding that endangering the safety of a person is either a threat or an attack on life, and it concerns members of the MUP to be punished by a prison of 10 to 20 years. This is the third time I've tried to enter into the Criminal Code the provisions concerning members of the Ministry and police officers of all sectors within the Ministry, the gendarmes because we have long enough witnessed the deaths of officers on duty and we have also witnessed the enrollment of their names in marble, posthumous plaques and all that every country should do, if it is up to its own pride and collective memory of those who eat bread from the risk of life for the safety of others. The length of that list of names carved into stone speaks of the negligence of the state, of the state's inadequacy to really protect those who earn their bread by protecting others. Therefore, this amendment of mine in Article 13 amending Article 138. I would ask all MPs for support to make this amendment an integral part of Article 13. This will send a clear message that we want to remember forever those who have laid down their lives because they have decided to protect others, so that we also make a commitment on ourselves to shorten the list of those who should spare their lives in the future because of their family, because of themselves, for all of us, doing the jobs of protecting others. With the hope that I will have an understanding with the minister and with all of us MPs, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7899	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7900	Madam Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one young man was only 27 years old, only doing his job, guarding the constitutional order of this country. He was a knight of a police call. Hero Miroslav Stamenkovic was killed yesterday doing his duty in Vlasotinc. I expected today's session to begin with a moment of silence for this brave man. I ask that we correct that injustice on Monday. I also appeal to you, Madam Chairman, that the president of the National Assembly ask that all MPs sign an initiative to honor this brave man with the highest honor. I urge you, Mr Selakovic, that the government also sign the initiative. Not to be Srdjan Milivojevic's initiative, DS, but the entire National Assembly, the government of this country, to send a clear message that the state is taking care of these people. I also appeal to you, Mr Selakovic, that the next time you prepare changes to the Criminal Code to put a criminal offence into that Code that the murder of a police officer on duty is a criminal offence for which the 40-year sentence of prison has been threatened and where there is no amnesty, abolition and pardon. Otherwise, if we have amnesty for people who put a burning torch in the mouth of a gendarme, we send a very bad message to criminals from all meridians, come to Serbia, this is not where such behavior is sanctioned. Speaking of criminal law, we have heard some remarks that it is not good to change criminal laws and that frequent changes in criminal laws prove that one state is not democratic. I believe that criminal legislation is not a single statistical category, because the needs of modern society imposes a transition society, such as Serbia, which strives to deal with organised crime and corruption, which meet every day with almost brutal abuses and astounding violations of social norms, requires that the Criminal Code be changed. I suggest you enter two new crimes into the next Criminal Code. One is the purchase of academic titles to raise candidates' reputation in the election, and the other is to harass the public during the election process by presenting untrue election results and falsely reporting electoral theft. It should be assumed that these two crimes cannot go out of date, that they are always a mortgage to those people who reach out to such measures of the political game. Of course, I have some other objections, essential and concrete objections, to the proposed amendments to the Criminal Code. In Article 4. The bill provides for an obligation, undermining, a court to give parole after two-thirds of the fine has been filed. Now I ask – how will we affect the international criminal tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to enable our citizens to serve in Serbia with such a provision? I understand why some don't like Vojislav Seselj and want him not to return to Serbia, but I don't understand why you don't like the other Hague indictees. Some of you have been very good at defending them on those mitts. You remember watching the backstage burn the American embassy, and then after a few months, you ran to shake hands with that ambassador. You know, I think it's nice that Mr. Selakovic wants to visit the Hague indictees. It would be the turn of the Secretary of Defense. The Minister of Defence, Mr. Vukic, has to visit... (President: Mr. Milivoevich, come back to the topic. This is the topic, ma'am. We end, introduce parole and prevent people who serve in the white world from returning to Serbia. With this Penal Code, these changes, I expect Mr. Alexander Vukic to visit Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. He followed him nicely, spoke nicely at the escort, I guess when he was released, as Gotovina was returned, he'd go for him too. I have a few more objections when it comes to this criminal code. I understand some don't like Vojislav Seselj, but you don't like Alexander Vukic. Wait, so you're predicting in Article 13. Deleting Item 3. (Marko Atlagic, from place: Gilas. There's no shame in losing the election to Gilas. The wolf lost his election to Gilas. Article 13 provides for the erasure of the position of Article 3(8). A criminal code that stipulates that a qualified form of crime is a threat to security if the president of the Republic is damaged, the MP, Prime Minister, is a minister. Who are they threatening right now in Serbia? Mr. Alexander Wolfie, and they're all threatening him. A few days ago, we witnessed a press conference here. I can still smell the vasal smell how well you've defended him. (President: Mr. Milivoevich, please behave with dignity. ) If we are talking about protecting the holder of the highest judicial functions, we are not the protagonists who threatened the judges of the Constitutional Court the other day. You can't feed crocodiles, and then one day you wake up and the crocodile scratches your hand and who are you angry with? To crocodiles, to yourself. In this country, we have a situation that the Court of Appeal has abolished the ruling by the leader of the "Obraza" that the Court of Appeal has halved the sentence of the murderers of Bris Taton, that the Court of Appeal has abolished the verdict of the consulars in New York, that the Court of Appeal has abolished the verdict of Ivan Bogdanov, that the Court of Appeal has freed the leader of Alcatraz, that the Court of Appeal has freed Mark Milosevic, that the persons who burned the embassy of the United States and who have been sentenced to one year in prison for stealing the jacket and gloves, that the Constitutional Court has defended the motion of the Prosecutor to ban the Serbian People's Movement – Our 1389, that the Court of Appeals has abolished the verdict of attack against the mosque, that the Court of Appeal has reduced the Court of Appeal by six years the Court of Appeals from Belgrade-based on the Belgrade-based members of the Court of Appeals. Now I ask you, the moment these right-wing organisations staged a rally in Belgrade two days ago, where they attack you for politics towards Kosovo, where they say I quote them, not myself...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7901	Mr. Milivojevic, please return to the agenda, you've gone a little too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7902	I don't know what this is, if it's not a topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7903	It's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7904	Ma'am, we have right-wing organizations that you tattoo and let them say...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7905	Mr. Milivoevich, since I warned you twice, next time I'll give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7906	I'll tell you again what I'm talking about, so we can get clear. In Article 13(3), Article 138 is replaced by the following: A criminal law stipulates that a qualified form of a security threat is abolished if the president of the Republic is damaged, the MP, the Prime Minister, ministers, judges of the Constitutional Court. I remind you, Mrs. Kovac, if you haven't heard, members of the Scarage have sentenced the judges of the Constitutional Court to death. The members of the "Obraza" and the right-wing organisations had been promoting the city of Belgrade the other night, and they said threatening messages to Aleksandr Vukic, Tomislav Nikolic, Ivica Dacic... (Marko Atlagic, from the place: This is not a topic. How is it not a theme? Am I supposed to defend your boss when you don't?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7907	Please don't throw the speaker away.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7908	Did you hear what they told you, that you paid your diploma more than you sold Kosovo?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7909	Mr. Milivoevich, don't talk to the MPs like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7910	There were a few questions here. We had questions about some of my fellow MPs - what are we doing Saturday, and why is the session of the Assembly on Saturday with this topic? I'll answer why we work Saturday. It is the same model of those owners who made Kosovo and Metohija the largest American aircraft carrier in 1999...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7911	Mr. Millyvoy, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7912	Thank you very much. It hurts the truth, I understand that pain, but it'll only hurt, don't worry about it. So these are the same people who want to draw attention to crime and corruption and can't talk about anything but that. I must ask you, who, gentlemen, writes these laws to you? Last time, the Amnesty Act was written to you by a father who wanted to amnesty his son. Now I understand who's writing your laws, but I'm curious to know who dictates those laws to you. Are your laws dictated by the same people who are known to the law enforcement authorities and are awaiting trial in prisons, from the same criminogenic structures that await the first dividend? Because you didn't get free prison support, the biggest number of votes you got in prisons. It should be due now to donors and sponsors. To tell you the truth, you've also had the opportunity to prove yourself a fighter against crime and corruption, but by this law, you're taking the sword of justice out of the hands of Alexander Vukic and drawing a target on his back. Then you're gonna hold press conferences here and then we're gonna have to defend him from the attacks of right-wing organizations. It seems the time has come for all of us to wonder how long we'll be feeding these crocodiles who'll go against our society? One day you'll wake up without a hand feeding crocodiles, and we without a Serbian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7913	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7914	Thank you for this exhaustive presentation, but after all, only one question arises – who chooses all these judges of the Court of Appeal, who have released and passed such a verdict? Who chooses these Constitutional Court judges you are now complaining about? Could the current government have set them up? You know, when you want to reform something, you have to be better than the one you want to reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7915	Minister, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7916	When it comes to Article 138 and erasing attitude 3, it would be good to refer to what is in the opening statement and mentioned, which is – how is it possible to endanger the security of the persons listed in paragraph 3 to a more severe punishment than for attempted murder? Does that make any sense? The second thing, really respecting people who do their job well in the public interest, on which basis will you single out only one profession, and you will not, for example, ask doctors, say, editors of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia who go to someone to cut the electricity because they haven't paid that bill in years? You won't, say, taxi drivers, where we've also had cases of murder. Any profession with full right will demand to find its place here. Speaking of law enforcement, it's already something that courts are responsible for. It's true, there's a tendency of a mild criminal policy. Will we strengthen it by prescribing dragon penalties that no one will apply? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the independence of the judiciary is first seen in the independence of the judge in his free conviction when it comes to a verdict, and it is bound exclusively by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7917	Thank you. The word is Mr. Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7918	Honored Chairman, Article 116. Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the rules concerning MPs also apply to all other participants in the debate. Minister Selakovic speaks to lawmakers directly, showing marked anxiety for no reason. The order at the assembly session is for you, not for the minister. That's the first thing. If our messenger, any of us, has made a mistake, you will make sure that you correct it. You can warn him, as you did, but we're here not to know which way, though not from Minister Selakovic, we're experiencing that the members of the government here are about to kick a finger at us, I think you need to protect us. The Supreme Council of the Judiciary was elected by these judges. They were not elected by the government, selected by no party, and no one has the right to make these insinuations the most normal in this home. At one point we finally have to stop it, because that's exactly what, among other things, they're fighting and the announced measures in changing these laws, so no minister can, so no one, not even the ruling majority, can constantly say these things and that they pass the most normal things in this Assembly as given truth. That's not true. As you may have responded to our MP, you should have reacted before to other MPs who presented a lot of incorrect things about a whole party, about its members, in the most normal way. If someone had ruined something, destroyed something, here's the evidence, the prosecution, you've got both Robes Pierre and Elliot Ness now, so here you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7919	Thank you. In view of Article 116. Rules of Procedure, of course I warned Mr Selakovic and asked him to come back on the subject. The word is Mr. Srdjan Mikovic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7920	I'm reporting on members 27 and 109. On the basis of Article 27, you are required to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, and on the basis of Rule 109, the notice is made to the MP who, despite the warning of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. I have come to the conclusion that this reminder was apparently given in your view because the MP did not stick to the agenda. The fact is that, even after your warning, Minister Selakovic responded precisely to the topics launched by MP Milivojevic. The whole discussion of Mr. Minister was on the agenda, as was Mr. Milivojevic's discussion on the agenda. Nothing outside the agenda, but only within the agenda. That's why I think you've hurt both the 27th and the 109th on the matter of giving this notice. First of all, it is the Presidency's duty to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, not to in any way interfere with the MP's statement on the matter under the draft law. This matter is the subject of the bill itself and the Article 138th and everything that was discussed by Mr Milivojevic. In that sense, I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7921	Mr. Mikovic, I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, given that I've acted exactly in accordance with Article 109(1) point 3. After my two warnings that Mr. Milivojevic was back on the subject, he didn't come back. If you think you should vote on it in the voting day, you plead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7922	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7923	Mr. Arsic picked up the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand that people in their political struggle say some things but at least let them take care of what they're talking about. When it comes to a liberating verdict, just to repeat what Mr. Minister said -- and who chose these judges? Not everything was chosen by the High Council of the Judiciary, nor by the Constitutional Court, was elected here in the Assembly, one good part. Do not avoid responsibility for what some state authorities are now making some decisions. You may or may not like them, but they do so on the basis of the authority given to them by some other majority. Don't get us involved in this. When it comes to this famous member of Section 138, I can say that it is abolished in addition to what the minister said and because both Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic are brave people. I don't see any reason why this would remain in the legislation, except that you're afraid of something and you want to be particularly protected by the law. I don't know what that's about. When it comes to winning prisons, I agree that there are criminals there for the most serious crimes, but one large majority are still people who are convicted of the material gain they've acquired against the law. It seems to me that you voted the most against the DS and against the kind of authority it had committed, because a large number of people who should be convicted are under the protection of that same party. That's why the SNS won the election, and when it comes to who's proposing laws, we're not drawing a target for Alexander Vukic, he's a member of the government. The proposer of this law is the Government and he voted for this law not to draw his own target, but because he's a brave man.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7925	Mrs. Kolundjia, did you report for any damage to the Rules of Procedure or replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7926	Madam Chairman, you have injured Article 27 and Article 104 because there is no reason on which you could give the right to a replica to anyone who has not been mentioned, whose party has not been attacked, whose name has not been mentioned. So whoever recognized him is his problem why he recognized himself in it. The one who spoke was not mentioned in a way that could be recognized. The fact is, we're actually talking about exactly what Mr. Milivojevic was talking about here. It is about whether, since the arrival of the new government, all these decisions have been made by the Court of Appeal under the pressure of the new authorities and under the influence of the new authorities, regardless of who elected those judges. Is the Secretary of State in the current Justice Department a man who chaired the council that freed Pahomi because he did not present evidence that spoke in favor of the damaged? They're facts, no matter who chose them. You confirm in this way that you wish to amnesty those who have committed crimes. So the minister of justice for his secretary takes a man who was president... (President: Mrs. Kolundzija, this has nothing to do with the reasons for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course he does, because if you've given the right to a replica that someone is attacking that he's an amnesty criminal...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7927	You explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Don't rephrase to Mr. Arsic. Vladimir Cvian, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's article 7, and I really think we should end this kind of discussion. It is good that today we will abolish Article 336, the position of the Penal Code, because here half of the MPs should be responsible for the crime of the case. Because now it bothers some people because an independent court has freed some Peru, Zika, Mike or this one or that one. It's best to remove the courts and leave others to be tried here somewhere. Indeed, there is not only a violation of Parliament's dignity by showing that one of the present, for example, the Secretary of State, for God's sake, has tried in one way or another. It's not just a violation of parliament, it's a violation of the guarantee of independence of the judiciary in the Constitution. I'd like to ask this kind of discussion to stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7929	Thank you. I appreciate the criticism. I ask the MPs to stop this discussion and return to the agenda. Hope of Kolundji, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7930	Madam Chairman, therefore, you have really violated the 107th and injured the dignity of the National Assembly in the most harsh way possible now. The previous speaker called for Article 7 which says that after confirming the mandate, MPs take an oath. Moreover, you must not allow the MPs of the people to insult other peoples. Whoever's in jail for the courts to do their job thinks it'd be a huge surprise for those who talk about it today. Please, you must not allow the People's Messenger to insult other People's Messengers. What's here is the fact that we're discussing a criminal code that doesn't give the right to those who claim to be involved in the fight against crime and corruption. No one can disqualify MP groups or MPs because of that, arguing that someone would end up in prison. So, of these announcements, that's probably why this member is being abolished, by which he will be able to comment on the trial and to talk about the trial in advance, to be announced in the media by who will be arrested and who will be responsible for what. So, please, respect your dignity. The Messenger of the people is not allowed to insult other Messengers of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7931	As far as Article 107's injury is concerned. Rules of Procedure, I don't think I've hurt Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, because Mr. Cvian did not insult the MPs. So he hasn't addressed any of the MPs with offensive expressions, but you can see from the stenographic notes. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103. Rules of Procedure, pages 1 and 2. He says - the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that it is not in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure done at the session of the National Assembly, etc., which is in progress, which is right after the injury done. Article 2 - The MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the president of the National Assembly that has already been indicated. Mr. Cvian pointed to article 107, and then the lady answered and advertised the same member of the Rules of Procedure, the same injury. So I'm still saying that you're very tolerant of the opposition and that there are two Rules of Procedures, one of which is true for us, and the other one's quite softer for them. I don't mind that much. I love that you do positive discrimination, I love that you let them do what we're not allowed to do. But some measure must exist, someone has to explain it to them. I'll try to explain. They can really be helped, but they have to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7933	Thank you. Mr. Nejko Jovanovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7934	Thank you, Chairman. I'm referring to Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, and I point to facts... .
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7935	Article 27, Mr. Jovanovic, has been repeatedly advertised this evening, so we don't waste any time, so you won't remind me of Article 27 again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7936	Be kind and listen to me, it's not the same injury that previous speakers have pointed to in relation to that member. It's not an invitation to a member, it's a call to an injury, and I'm just going to point out facts that neither you nor anyone here can question. First, we started working today at 9:00, now it's close to 20.00 hours, work is exhausting. Any abuse of procedural powers, and this is a procedural act, such as the Rules of Procedure, implies a sanction that you need to take, and the abuse is precisely about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, because the unnecessary appeal to the Rules of Procedure, the first step out of the subject, the second, as soon as it comes out of the topic, opens up a space for controversy that is completely unnecessary and we have many speakers, I think it is time and order to respond to it and that we who do not want to participate in these poles are not the hostages of these injuries and abuses of that Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7937	Thank you. Who else is reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7938	Article 106 was injured that moment several times...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7939	And he's been advertised more than once in 106, given the previous speaker. Please. I can only take your time from the parliamentary group, because it's my duty. This would be considered an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7940	Can I tell you a sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7941	Yes, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7942	I think either you don't understand the Rules of Procedure or we don't understand the Rules of Procedure which are clear that you can call on the same member if that injury came from the other side, that is. She came on a second basis. Very short to tell you. You can no longer allow MPs to keep insinuating the criminal actions of their fellow Members and thus violate the Rules of Procedure, it does not stand in the topic. And the previous speaker called for it, and I'm just saying that, this is the addition now to what you said. It's coming out of the topic because the ruling majority wants to, but it doesn't have the strength maybe to criminalise membership in the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7943	Mr. Stefanovic, we've heard about this before.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7944	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7945	Really, you're repeating yourself. Mr. Jovanovic, I won't give you my word, you have no right to a replica. However, Srdjan Milivojevic is long awaited, has the right to replication and go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7946	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was convinced that this snow had fallen, not to let the citizens of Serbia see that the government was incompetent and that it did not know how to clear the main corridors, and that the tanks had to send to the streets and highways, to draw vehicles that were stuck, or this snow had fallen to cover the hill, but to show the trail. It's much more interesting as far as these clues lead, and I think that these clues lead right to the order of this law, that these clues lead precisely to those criminogenic structures that get the benefits from these laws. You know, they don't like these people for the sake of some party writing these laws. There are clear motives why they love these political parties and there are many loves, there are unhappy love, there are unrequited love, there are some forbidden love, but this is about love back, about happy love, because as some people like to help some parties, so some people love the money of those people who help these parties and the fruit and love very often become such laws. If you ask me who chose these and such people to judge, they were elected by the Assembly and elected by the parliamentary majority, and one of these people, sitting Mr. Minister next to you, and that's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7947	Mr. Arsic, on what grounds are you answering? You don't have the right to a replica, you're not mentioned, nor your MP group. Please, let me run the session. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, won't you speak? Next, the word has Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7948	Article 104, and we can also talk about Article 106, 108, we can talk about whoever you want, because you were obliged to warn the previous speaker, that he is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Scour, and not to mention the paths that are entrenched, because one criminal privatisation left us with no travel companies, and you can read about it in the papers, and how judges were tried, we see in the case Janjusevic – Kolesar and who set them free.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7949	Mr. Arsic, don't use the right to injure the Rules of Procedure, for replication. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7950	Ladies and gentlemen, we have four laws ahead of us, and all four are given in emergency procedures. The fact is that out of the hundreds of laws and decisions discussed by the National Assembly, over 80 percent and 90 percent are considered and made by emergency procedure. That's why everything that's written in the bill isn't done enough, reviewed, repaired. It happens to us that from technical mistakes they go from one legal text to another. So I would only like to ask the representatives of the Ministry, on page 19 of the review of the provisions that are being changed, or on page 41 of the material, if it is possible to tell us whether after erasure of Article 390, it remains the title – Threatening the person under international protection? In the very text of the Criminal Code, that member who is deleted concerns the endangerment of a person under international protection, and not the establishment of a slave relationship and the transport of a person in a slave breed, that is not the truth. From technical mistakes to mistakes that are essential. The second thing, it is left to incriminate that one who offends another can be punished, and on the other hand, whoever brings out or carries out anything false, which may harm his honor and reputation, that incrimination is erased. In that sense, I don't think we're consistent because there's no excuse for eradicating the criminal act of slander from Article 171 without at the same time erasing the offence of Article 170. Criminal code. Also, the crime of defamation assumes the carrying out or carrying out of falsehood, which may harm the honor and reputation of the damaged, which, since the damaged cannot always or cannot immediately know about it, carries a greater social danger, in terms of the destruction of moral values. I'm willing to discuss it, that if we go to the defamation, then I don't think even a crime of insult can, and we can discuss whether or not we should stay or not, incrimination, especially in terms of consequences, for the separation of moral values. In addition, one part of the practical incrimination from abuse of official office, Article 359, which falls under criminal acts against official duty, is now being transferred to crimes against the economy, to another group, outside of a genus-specific criminal offence. Let's see and let's be clear, because some theorists like that, for example, Professor. Petric and other culprits, take the view that if there is an alteration or expansion of the indictment, I am here specifically referring to the amendment of the indictment set out in Article 341. The Code of Criminal Procedure raises the question of whether it will be a new indictment, or whether it will be an amendment to existing charges? What will be the consequences of the deadlines for prosecution if, in the meantime, due to the lengthy conduct of the proceedings, the issue of a new indictment, or whether the prosecution of the new indictment is outdated? In that sense, it is necessary to clarify these things, because I think it is very, very important to know that the consequences would not be as they should not be. Finally, if I didn't repeat myself to what my predecessors were saying here, there's one thing in particular that's not clear to me. What, on the one hand, did you conclude in this second draft of the law, meaning the Bill on Amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, that there were numerous shortcomings in the normative nature, which require greater interventions in the text of the Code? That's what you wrote in the reasons for the law. You suggest that, practically, the deadline for the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was voted earlier, be moved from 15 January to 1 October 2013. That's what we absolutely can't be clear about. If you had said that this deadline had been moved to the end of May, every honor, I would have congratulated you on your willingness to consider, during the spring regular session, during March, April and May, this national assembly during the regular session, the proposal for any new code, any amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Also, if you said, for example, December 31st, or December 1st, and not October 1st, and I could understand that, you could say -- we can't make it during the spring regular session, we'll consider it when it's a regular session again, from the first day of October, and the next three months, or the next 90 days. In that sense, and there is an amendment that I have submitted, so that such things, which you say are important, which you say require more extensive interventions in the text of the Law, are considered at a regular meeting of the National Assembly. The proposal, where it is obviously going, that changes are being considered at an emergency session, again indicates that they will go or be worried, that they will go to an emergency procedure, that they will be considered during July, August, September, or when, when it is not a regular session. In that sense, it would be worth every law, especially law relating to criminal and legal matter, to be considered within the deadlines, which give opportunity to every MP to read in detail and consult with all experts, i.e. such laws, which affect the security of the entire state, each citizen, are done in a way to satisfy the need, to make a quality change of each regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7951	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7952	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is that you are left, since I see that certain parliamentary groups are not in the O.R., although respected ministers have taken pictures of some MPs of some of the MPs who, at least in the O.R., we have today received a call for this session to discuss, as is said, important criminal laws. We started the session by voting one law, so the chairman said that the technical error that this law had not been passed, it was quite unusual, and so far in legal practice, as far as I know, was unrecorded. However, the importance and urgency, certainly with the call when we got the agenda, perhaps we could assume, since it was a few important criminal codes, which are procedural, which are material, but when we got these laws, in them, the majority of them, three out of four, wrote "scheduled", although the delay is a step forward, although the delay in the law that regulates the criminal-processing right step forward, then I understand the urgency to call this session. However, I will return to what I have found and what MPs and opposition and positional parties could find in one, practically, law, Criminal Code, is worth the attention because there are certain provisions that could be commented on. I would say that the amendments to the Criminal Code are partial and very often go hand in hand to the perpetrators of the crimes. I'll talk about it later. However, certainly the DS MPs in their previous presentations have said some provisions of this law should be supported. After all, some of them were also written by ministers from the previous government, and it does not matter at all, because fighting crime is certainly a topic that should be a common topic of national importance, and in that sense, party colors should not be important. One of these changes is regarding the qualification of a hateable crime, so a special qualification, a member of the 6th Amendment to the Criminal Code. However, the shadow of this provision, which should certainly be praised, is the fact that a few days ago, persons who committed acts of hatred, are now unqualified, amnesty, and all other persons covered by the Amnesty Act, I would say about general amnesty. The second provision of the Criminal Code, which merits attention, is the fact that it is particularly sanctioned, forgeries of signs, national stamps, for the marking of goods, criteria and objects of precious metals. Namely, this is a properly protected intellectual property. However, we specifically talked about this when we talked about amendments to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, and we agreed, in the fact that the application of laws concerning the protection of intellectual property is inadequate and that the biggest money laundering and the greatest earnings in the criminal sphere are areas, besides drugs, in the area of intellectual and copyright abuse. Then, criminalising threats against judges, prosecutors and lawyers, certainly in Article 30 of these amendments, are commendable. However, I am not sure that there is a good intention to apply it in practice, primarily in view of the serious interference of the executive authority in judicial proceedings, in the work of prosecutors and other independent institutions, which are in any case, which should be independent of the executive authority. It is also commendable that a particularly criminalized crime, namely a precise crime of terrorism, is. However, I share my opinion with some MPs who raised serious doubts at the right time to end the defamation. It seems to me that, apart from one parliamentary group, all the other parliamentary groups have expressed doubts about the proposal to decriminalise the criminal act of libel. For what? Because of the facts of the emerging social circumstances, in which slander has become a universally accepted social phenomenon, in which the media is daily slandering, in which they in some way express judgments and give justice to others, beyond the media, of course, it is not just the media who send such a false picture, that it is free slander. I would agree with my colleagues that in the Serbian tradition, in general the tradition of our society, the fact that the cheek is more important than other material values, and in that sense, Minister, that you should reconsider the fact that at this point, the crime of slander should be completely abolished. What certainly doesn't deserve attention and which is why I think this law, I'm talking about the Criminal Code, is in some way a continuation of favoring the perpetrators of criminal acts. That's what I'm gonna document. First of all, we almost passed the Law on Amnesty, or parliamentary majority, with our serious criticism and a warning that it is not good what you do, you passed the Amnesty Act and there were about 1,100 persons convicted of various crimes, from the easiest to the most difficult. So, and for the crimes of murder, crimes that have certain qualified forms. The exception was really very little. Those are the faces on the loose. He sent a bad message that persons who are potential perpetrators of criminal acts, that committing crimes is in some way less dangerous for the state than it seemed before and created the impression that amnesty is something that will become a final category and that anyone who commits a crime can expect to be amnesty someday. When, with this amnesty, there was a fact that, for certain persons, crimes are reduced and five times, we have a case of a person who was sentenced to 20 months, and it will take two months to serve. The president of the Republic abolized persons who are only in criminal proceedings, who have not yet proven that they are innocent, also sent a very bad message to the public. The finance minister came out with his law on the amnesty of taxpayers. Now paying taxes is not something that is desirable, because all those who do not pay taxes will be amnesty. Today, very inappropriately, since she is not here, I will not mention a letter because it belongs to the ruling coalition, she mentioned an accident that took place by the loss of a police officer, who did his duty with honor and honesty, and I agree with everything that Mr Milivojevic said, however, she regretted the family and suffered a face hypocritically, because she voted 10, 15 days ago for a law that was amnesty and such murderers. Maybe one day they'll be amnesty killers like that. (Nikola Selakovic and State Secretary, from the same vote: That is not true. I ask the chairman to warn the Secretary of State and the Minister not to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7953	Mr. Veselinović, please, now you're telling the truth, I can publicly say that, since we were all present here while that letter you're talking about was.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7954	Chairman, I didn't understand you?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7955	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7956	Give the minister a microphone so he can whisper to you what you need to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7957	The minister will get his word later. I'll give you this time that I've taken away from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7958	So, I was dissatisfied and unhappy with the fact that the MP mentioned the murder, given the fact that the pardoned persons who committed similar crimes were pardoned. The law now allows for the cumulation of amnesty and so-called reduction, or parole for criminal acts, which have now become somehow imperative, because after serving two-thirds of the sentence, the person convicted of a criminal offence, if he has not tried to escape from prison for that time, has the possibility of being paroled, with the fact that this parole provides for the possibility to be, so to speak, remanded to prison if he has committed a criminal offence for which the prison sentence has been scheduled for one year, and so far has been the case for six months. For what? Is this the way to please persons who are being punished for crimes? On the other hand, this also raises the question of the government's goodwill that those who are now serving the tribunal's sentence under the UN tribunal's decision, the penalties are maintained in Serbia, because one of the conditions of the UN tribunal was the fact that our courts do not allow for parole under such automation and that is why parole has been tightened during the previous period, among other things. Another amnesty in this law can be viewed in some way through the fact that the bill provides for the erasure of Article 57(2). Criminal code. What does that mean? The eradication of an existing ban on the mitigation of certain criminal offences is foreseen, so that after the adoption of this criminal code, sentences for the crime of kidnapping, rape, promises on powerless persons, illegal border crossings and trafficking of people, trafficking of people, promises of child, not authorized production and placing on the market of intoxicating drugs. The explanation, which you gave these amendments to the laws, is not warranted. So that fact that you think that in the previous period it was kind of left out, I don't think it's the right justification and that this is about the most difficult types of crimes. Minister, I hope you agree with me on this. So these persons will also have the possibility of parole after two-thirds of the suspended sentence being released. When it comes to the fact that Article 13 provides for the erasure of Article 13(3). A criminal code, which stipulates that a qualified form of criminal offences is a threat to security, if the President of the Republic is damaged, the MP, the Prime Minister, the Ministers, the Constitutional Court judges, the holders of judicial functions, the journalists may be able to accept some of the arguments I have heard from individual MPs, that it may be unnecessary for ministers, MPs, the Prime Ministers to enjoy some special protection and that crimes are committed to them by acts that have a more difficult qualification. However, we did not tell the truth to the end. Some of these persons, on official duty, have their own security. They're protected by the police and the military. Journalists, holders of judicial functions, judges of the Constitutional Court, and ultimately, no one protects us MPs. So we can be an object, because of our views that we express, and we see what our atmosphere is like in the Assembly, when someone incriminates in the media, so it's transferred to the Assembly, and in this way someone is demuting, I don't think all these faces are in the same position. He's not in the same position as the person with the security detail and the security detail. How do you think tomorrow a journalist will be able to write freely about potential perpetrators of crime and some crimes, unless it is protected in a quality way. I think this provision is too broad and there should have been some exceptions. When it comes to defamation, I have expressed my position here, and I believe that the minister, or government, should make a final decision, given all the views that have been made here today. In the end, I believe that this bill that deserves attention is not enough, not the fact that we are considering its norms by emergency procedure today, but the fact that it is in some way a serious shift in advance. There are some small shifts in this section, but there are certain steps back. These steps back concern the fact that in some cases the perpetrators of criminal acts, be they convicted or convicted, that I am not talking about the fact that before me a colleague has been talking about, that for a criminal offence involving abuse of official office, the judiciary will have a real problem in taking a stand on the first-degree verdicts and actions that are under way. I hope that you have an answer to this question because the reasoning could not determine how these persons will be treated, which are already being prosecuted for a crime which will not be continued from next week.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7959	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7960	Dear Chairman, Minister Selakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me first to thank Mr. Minister for sending this set of laws from the area that has been one of the worst in the past four years to the agenda of our Assembly. Let me refer to the criminal law that is before us. Bringing this criminal law, the Republic of Serbia meets certain requirements, both the citizens of Serbia and the Council of Europe and the EU in the process of joining and gaining EU candidate status, which concerns the Criminal Code. Also, a group of states, as counterparts stressed, for the fight against corruption of the Council of Europe, adopted a report on the Republic of Serbia within the third round of evaluations containing some recommendations to amend and supplement individual members of the Criminal Code on Corruption. Today we've heard a lot about crime and corruption, about this Criminal Code. I call upon the gentleman who has resisted the fight against corruption and crime to publicly give support to this law and also to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and to Alexander Vukic as co-ordinator in the fight against corruption and thus publicly demonstrate their definition of combating the greatest evil that today threatens our country, which is the condition of the country's economic recovery. Allow me one sentence to say that today's fight against corruption is equal to the patriotic act of defending the country. As far as the Criminal Code is concerned, I will refer to Article 42 of the Amendment and the Supplement, and this is about persons under international protection. The crime was brought by the law of the 1990 Penal Code of Yugoslavia and by the provisions of that criminal law by Article 155b, until today, the act consists of the execution of kidnapping or other violence against a person under international protection, the attack on their official premises, the attack on a private apartment and the attack on their means of transport. The law also predicted two major forms of crime. The first is when it comes to the kidnapping of a person or the incursion of his official premises, by attacking his means of transport, when the death of one or more persons occurs and the most difficult, the second, when death comes from imagination. Now in this criminal law, Article 39 deletes Article 390. The penal code, because the crime of endangering a person under international protection, which is ambassadors, consuls and other diplomats, and something else, is now being formulated in Article 392 and I think it's the right thing to do. This member of the Penal Code is in line with EU rules, because like others, it is very good and has been given special importance to those persons under international protection, by putting a special title - persons under international protection, more so to protect them even more strongly here with us. As for the opposition of the MPs addressed to you, Mr. Minister, that you and your students went out and publicly expressed disagreement against the shameful decision of the UN tribunal, the rulings of Markac and Gotovina, I believe that this is the right thing to do, to be with your students, to be with your people and to be a minister of justice. There have also been words from previous speakers about The Hague tribunal and I will say one sentence. Since I was the last witness in the Milosevic process, as his witness, let me say that there is no point in talking about it. History is the greatest judge and it will also judge you who slander our folk heroes but also The Hague tribunal and our witnesses. History has already ruled. Mr. Minister, thank you once again for stopping civilised and culturally with your students, not as some who burned down the Assembly and would never have sat here today if they hadn't burned it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7961	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7962	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, let me say that I will vote in favour of these amendments and additions to the law, although I am essentially not satisfied with the scope of the planned new criminal acts. I wish there was a copy of that crime recently passed in Russian law, which is called a foreign agent, which is politicians who receive unauthorized money from abroad, put it in their private pocket. I think that would solve a lot of our problems in the congregation. I'm really sorry that we didn't cover this Criminal Code and that term in Russia called so-called. a foreign agent. It would have been clear if it hadn't been for the resistance to victory, but it was the resistance to the money. That would be very nice if we had introduced that member of the law. Unfortunately for me, we didn't. As for the set of laws on the prosecution, the judges, the Criminal Law, etc., that set should remove the consequences we have encountered. I guess that makes sense to everyone. The justice we found was such that no one knew who was worse, whether those who were tried, or those who were judged. Often those who judge by me were worse than those who are judged. If you had put bars on individual courts and on some larger ones, you would not have wronged the soul, I say. That goddess of justice during the rule of the former regime was so raped, that I don't think there are any life sentences they should endure for that kind of application of the Criminal Code they applied. During the former regime's rule of law, it wasn't even the criminal code that mattered, they shouldn't have changed it. They were courted by the Ministry. Judged by the minister or minister, tried by the secretary of state. It wasn't tried by law. They didn't need any changes or additions. They had it all in one office. Whoever bothers them, they do time for punishment. They did what they wanted, but they couldn't get as far as they wanted. They were also cadium and judge, and now they're afraid of the courts they installed themselves. They think that we're going to put political pressure on them in a way that they've put political pressure on the courts and knowing how much these courts have been like them, they're afraid they're going to be like us, and they're going to sanction some of them. That's their fear. That is why I am not satisfied with the fact that this Criminal Code does not provide for the most severe criminal sanctioning of political pressures on the judiciary, on the prosecution, on the courts, on the appeals courts, etc., which was undisputed during their term of office. With full condolences to the Bris Taton family, I'll only mention the case. I claim that the qualification of a legal act, which was then established, with unprecedented political pressure and unprecedented national judicial shame, that this qualification of that crime did not stand, that not all witnesses were heard, that not all evidence was presented, that some young people who may have been hooligans should have been tried because the hooligans were convicted even though they were not there, that this justice was a little more blind than it was meant to be. Who's gonna fix it now? We were all witnessing the unprecedented political pressure that resulted in a 240-year sentence. Is that the criminal code they used to apply? We were all witnesses that it was legal violence, state, political, legal violence... (President: Mr. Risticevic, return to this amendment and the addition of the law, on the subject of the agenda. I'm talking about the Criminal Code. (President: No, you're talking about applying the previous one. Wait a minute. I made it clear in the introduction of this argument that I am not satisfied that this kind of political pressure on the judiciary is not prohibited, i.e. that the Criminal Code does not provide for sanctioning in such situations those who put political pressure on the judiciary to make a lot of shameful judgments, which we do not know who will and in what way will be able to correct, given the constitutional and legal procedure in such situations. As for the amnesty mentioned by this Criminal Code and which mentioned our opponents, I must remind again that in 2001, all the Republic laws of the Amnesty Act were amnesty, all but paedophiles, and the paedophiles were not amnesty because the amendment that the Government accepted was submitted. That federal law has been amnesty by those who are now objecting to terrorists, persons who have been convicted of the crime of terrorism, association for hostile action, the destruction of constitutional order and sovereignty, 160 members of the "drenic group" amnesty. Many of them may have later participated in crimes in the so - called so - called crime. "Yellow House," don't let anyone in that "Yellow House" be recognized again. So that's what happened to us, and now someone in this amnesty is talking again. This code provides for amnesty when someone endures two-thirds of the sentence in order not to get another warning, that's what I have to say. The possibility of a home prison is provided here, but only for a year's work. I welcome that, because the state will save a lot of money. That's the most part of it. A man steals a sausage, etc. Now there's gonna be a lot of petty thefts. As a result, the country is completely economically destroyed. Are you saying that in four months, someone destroyed the country economically? The result of economic destruction will be general poverty. There will be a series of crimes, petty thefts or thefts that will be on the verge of criminal sanctioning. That up to a year, give at least people who have to steal because they're left with no perspective...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7963	Mr. Risticevic, I'm warning you one more time. Next time, I'll give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7964	Why? Because I'm an advocate of house arrest? Read the Criminal Code. I'm just talking about a year in prison being able to replace it, I called it house arrest, so that a punished person can handle it at home. If it's not in accordance with your procedure and your Rules of Procedure, I don't know what I'm talking about. Do I need to talk about "Orcan heights"? Also, I welcome the punishment of agreeing on the outcome of sports competitions and other competitions, if I understand well, since I was the victim of such a competition, so don't again earn any warning or warning, because now I'm also talking about amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, as a victim of no set competition, which is not sanctioned precisely because the crime did not exist in the law. As for other changes and additions, as far as drugs are concerned, I think we've tightened the rules here, that this Criminal Code is a far better someone, that there's something complemented, so there's not gonna be a writer who's been trading drugs three times, so the malts punished something monetary, they haven't awarded it. That was their Penal Code, so they applied it. I hope not only that we will adopt a better Criminal Code, amendments and additions and this set of laws, but we think that we will do so in a better way without any political pressure. I've already described the situation. Our people expect bread and justice from us. More than bread expects justice. This is where Alexander Wolfie was mentioned. This is where he was told to visit Seselj in prison. I agree with that. But I would also like him to say which politicians, by name, were receiving money. I think he would visit the top of an opposition party in our Central Prison. If he wants to talk about a visit, that visit can also be of an internal nature, you don't have to go abroad. The people want justice, the people want a rule of law. The rule of law is a set of rules. So today, when you enter the Assembly, you have Karadjorje right, look at him. The peasants built this country. There's the Happy Constitution over there. That's who the peasants brought. You don't need better criminal code. They were more modern at the time, more modern than most Europeans. That's how we peasants made states and laws. He asks you, gentlemen of the former regime, where is your country? The right is Emperor Dushan. We will not do anything new, only the kingdom of Dushan, or that law would apply to me, the Ten Commandments of God and the law of the Emperor Dushan. He observes this law and asks – gentlemen of Parliament, where is the law before which all citizens are equal before the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7965	And I ask you, Mr. Ristichevich, where's your theme? Please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7966	This is a principle debate, and I'm talking pretty good about replacing this code with Dushan's code, so these guys here would hang upside down, because it's a sanction for some crime. We had ancestors we could be proud of. Who's gonna be proud of us? In fact, who's gonna be proud of people from the party of the former regime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7967	Mrs. Popovic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7968	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I call on members 27 and 107. Rules of Procedure. I believe, first of all, that you are selectively applying this Rules of Procedure. When you hold a session, you obviously make sure the opposition is punished. I remind you two opposition MPs have been warned today, unlike the party MPs who have been in power over the past few minutes, who have presented extremely dangerous qualifications, valuable courts. As for the courts, as far as the judiciary is concerned, it is extremely important to point out that not everything that is negative in this society can be generalised, that the courts will be called, that the courts are exclusively blamed for everything that is wrong and that there is no difference between judges and those to which judges are tried. It's very dangerous for this country, because you're attacking the rule of law. I am sorry that you did not react by warning the apostle not to speak in this way of justice. I simply must take the right to defend this branch of power, the court, unless you defend it and the minister defends it. I have not noticed that the minister has responded in any way, by having to react, or by reporting for the word and saying something about what has been said negatively on the subject of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7969	Mrs. Popovic, time's up. Thank you. To answer, I don't think I've broken Article 107. Rules of Procedure, because I gave two warnings to Mr. Risticevic. He's partly back on the subject after that. I won't give you the right to a replica, because you don't have the right to do it. If you think it should be voted in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's what we'll do. Who wants to go through the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's been an advertized violation of article 27, and I'm advertising a breach of article 103. I'm a peasant man and I don't understand your laws that much, but I'm a little bit more understanding than anyone else. Article 27 says – The National Assembly educates permanent working bodies and can educate temporary working bodies. Permanent working bodies are committees. I don't understand if I was talking about these working bodies? The infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, has been advertised. I'm advertising Article 103. - The MP, and so on, has the right to point verbally at the violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's completely wrong, I'm a peasant man, but I read what they bring to me in the congregation and I read all the laws and all the rules, and I read Dušan's code. I'm proud of Emperor Dushan. Someone's proud of something else. Someone might have identified themselves in that writer. Someone recognized him by being freed from drugs. It's really not my fault. I ask you, no matter what you have not given me notice, give me a warning now because I want you to give it to me. It's an honor to be warned about these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7971	Thank you. First, let me answer your injuries to the Rules of Procedure. So, Mrs Popovic advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, and not the 7 that you cited, so it has nothing to do with Article 27, which you also cited. As far as the warning is concerned, if I had decided, I would have said the warning in time, if I thought you deserved it. The word is a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7972	Madam Chairman, you've injured Article 27. Rules of Procedure, not the Law on the National Assembly... (President: Article 27. The rules of procedure have just been advertised. No, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I can't let you. Article 27 was advertised by Mr. Risticevic. ) Please, he called on Article 27. The Law on the National Assembly, please, listen to what the MPs say then you will do less harm to the Rules of Procedure, please, and Article 109. You have allowed today's MP to humiliate this House with his own exposure. You let him talk about things that are absolutely not on the agenda, and you say so – you warned him. Today, two opposition MPs received a warning, although they did not harm the dignity of the National Assembly in any way and broke the Rules of Procedure. It is beneath the dignity of every writing man in this congregation, to plow with the man who forged the seal, to plow with the man who learned his conduct on the farm... (President: This does not refer to the reasons for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) Please do not allow such an MP to turn the National Assembly into a farm.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7973	You're absolutely right, Mrs. Kolundjia, as far as Article 27 is concerned. The Law on the National Assembly, as well as warnings. Since Mr. Risticevic told me to give him a warning, since you think I hurt the Rules of Procedure by not giving him a warning, I give you a warning, Mr. Risticevic, about this from a little while ago, because I think Mrs. Kolundzija is right. Does anyone else want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Mr. Rističević, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7974	I think he's a broken member of 27 now. On the other hand, someone said I committed a crime of falsifying the seal. Ma'am, you said I was a forger. You at that building of yours on Crown Street... (President: Mr. Risticevic, you are not mentioned. )......................................................................................................... You need to put a board on that it's a special facility. You said I forged something, that I forged the seal...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7975	To continue this session according to our respect for the dignity of the National Assembly, do you, Mrs Popovic, want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7976	I'm reporting for Members 107 and 108. Madam Chairman, you really need to make sure that MPs do not harm the dignity of the Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7977	Mrs. Popovic, we've already done all this. If you've noticed, I've made a note and I've observed Mrs. Kolundji's remarks. Please, we won't until morning. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Judita Popovic and Veroljub Arsic, from the post: Polovnik. ) The word is Judita Popovic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7978	Article 27, Madam Chairman, that's the way you run this session. Indeed, for this House it is humiliating and truly insulting to this Parliament's dignity, the way the debate is being held here. This Parliament is not a place for us to play games, nor to joke, but to discuss the laws that are on the agenda. You've allowed this discussion to get out of hand here, by literally bringing down the dignity of this House. When we advertised the Rules of Procedure, saying that you selectively applied the Rules of Procedure, you simply disobeyed it, and you accepted the proposal of whoever injured the Rules of Procedure to warn him. Is this the way to conduct a parliamentary debate in this house? I don't think so. Indeed inadmissible to insult judges in the first place, to insult the judiciary, to insult the judiciary, and secondly to insult this parliament. I think it's time to really start working in this Parliament as he deserves the law and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7979	You've advertised the same member of the Rules of Procedure as Mrs. Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7980	I also advertised a member of 107 and a member of 108 and a member of 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7981	Let me explain to you, about what you said earlier. So, you repeated what Mrs. Kolundzija said, that I was wrong not to give a warning to Mr. Risticevic. Of course I respected Mrs. Kolundzija's remarks and after her statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure, I gave a warning to Mr. Risticevic. I don't know if you've been following? Therefore, I acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If you want us to say yes in the voting day, what's it to you? Thank you. Veroljub Arsic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7982	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 109th position of the 1st indent 7. It may not be a name or a last name, but it is said that the chairman allows controversy with a person who has forged the seal. Whoever it is, the People's Messenger needs to be warned, who said it. So there's a broken Rules of Procedure. What is happening in the Assembly is what we have long claimed – DS and LDP, it is one and the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7983	Mr. Arsic, I'd really have to see from the stenographic notes if that were the case. That's not what I heard. Mrs. Popovic, do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure again? I ask the Members of Parliament to continue our work. So, is there anyone else who hasn't used his right to Article 96? Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7984	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am sorry that today's debate, which has been more or less cultural throughout the day, and in any case quite constructive, ends a little differently. But at the end of the day, it's time to slowly sum up the results of the whole discussion, to see the quality of the law proposed by the Justice Department. It is unequivocally unequivocal that all four laws in the field of justice proposed by the Ministry of Justice have come across a very good reception among the MPs, that a whole series of provisions of these laws have been praised, that apparently for some provisions, all MPs are ready to vote. It is clear that the laws concerning the amendments and addition of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and on courts have been extorted, forced by the failure of the High Council of the judiciary and the Head of the High Council of the Judiciary in some period since 2009 and beyond. It is clear that because of the failure, especially the president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the Ministry of Justice is today forced to resolve the fate of judges and prosecutors elected for a period of three years. It's just that in a situation like this, we've come to an end and the Department of Justice is fully prepared to deal with all the challenges involved. We see that the proposed amendments and additions of the Code of Criminal Procedure have also been accepted, especially in view of the fact that we see that the Ministry of Justice today, unlike some earlier times, organises public debates, asks professional services, asks legal chambers, asks the Association of Prosecutors and the Association of Judges what they think of changes, etc. So we always have a public debate, as well as a European standard. Obviously, the proposed amendments to the Criminal Law are more than solid. We have heard a whole series of praises about the fact that for the crime of petty theft, it may be reduced to 5,000 dinars, which will make life much easier for the citizens, there will be no more thefts, especially in the villages, which do a lot of damage to our citizens who today every dinar is very important. We saw a whole series of praises, even from the opposition, that now that the crime is committed for hate, pure hate, it will necessarily be a difficult circumstance. We have seen that everyone supports a whole series of criminal acts that will now be introduced from the area of terrorism, namely the repression of terrorism. We have heard different views on the abolition of the crime of slander, but we all agree that the abolition of the defamation of the crime is one European tradition, one European standard, something that is needed for Serbia to get closer to civilised countries. Of course, all who are injured with the right to honor and reputation will have the opportunity to make amends in the case, through fines, or, in the extreme line, to be prosecuted for a crime of offense or any other crime in the field of protection of honor and dignity. Journalists' associations have given a number of great commendations to the Justice Ministry's actions just by abolishing the defamation of the crime. What we have concluded in today's discussion is that, thanks to the activities of the Justice Ministry today, it is almost practice for judgments to be obtained thanks to a phone call from a cabinet. There are no more ordered verdicts in Serbia, which apparently some MPs are used to here. It will never be in Serbia again, and that is why Serbia has received a negative opinion during the former regime on the state of justice and on the state of the entire justice system. It's gone, thanks to the change of government, just thanks to the Justice Department. In the end, there can be only one question left, both for the minister and for all of us, to think once more, is it enough to protect the position of police officers? It is a real opportunity to be on behalf of and on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, and I hope you will not be angry if I offer my condolences to the Stamenkovic family on behalf of all of you. What happened in Vlasotanc is one warning. It's a good thing the authorities were able to catch absolutely everything that I realized were accomplices to that crime. But this is a sad subject that we can go over to think about, see if we can improve the position of officials in the Ministry of the Interior through amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7985	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, what is the basis? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: As an authorised representative. You have no time left as an authorised representative. You used it all the time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7986	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, there is no need to now praise the parts of that law that we consider to be good and that we would be willing to support them if there were no part of the law that we believe absolutely do not contribute to the goal, which you have declared and the one that you have explained today, that we are discussing today by an urgent procedure in order to achieve that goal. These proposed amendments and additions to the law show virtually none of these objectives. You can claim that what's done is enough. In our deep sense, I don't want to explain everything my colleagues have explained. So we remain in this law that it is not possible to vote for the things we have already said in advance. What I'd like to say is a few facts, given that it was a subject today. So, before judicial reform, over 4,500 outdated cases of prosecution were found in courts, 517 prison sentences were outdated, including the verdict handed down to priest Ilarion for fornication. In the case of Pahome, too. Pahomije was released because, according to the Supreme Court's assessment, Serbia's verdict was made at the expense of the damaged and there was an error in the procedure where the evidence charged by the perpetrators was singled out. A procedure has been initiated against 10 judges of the Trade Court following this reform. So from the moment the reform was carried out, the number of fines imposed by 3,000 was increased. So there were more who were sentenced to fines between three and five years for the same crimes for which minimum sentences were previously imposed. There has been a significant decrease in the number of those sentenced to one month in prison, and nearly double those who have been sentenced between one month and three months in prison. From 1,825 to 1,306 has been reduced to six months. The public's main grudge was overly mild criminal policy. The police's main grudge was that they were arrested and that after a month, the perpetrators of the crime went out on the streets again. So what is also important is that the processes that lasted 10 years, such as Sreten Jocic, Andrija Draskovic, etc., have been completed. The state managed to cope with the most serious organised crime, break down what is popularly called the underworld and break down the largest criminal group involved in drug trafficking. It's a group of Darko Saric. In the past eight years, the Special Court has conducted proceedings against 2,000 organised crime members and has imposed fines of 3,000 years in prison. More than 150 indictments were filed, 2,000 were charged, more than 90 convictions were made. What is also important is that about 1,400 cases per year until this reform, so around 1,400 cases became obsolete each year. After the reform, that number does not exceed 400. The prosecutor's office charged 6,542 people with fighting organised crime. Processes have been opened for the Kolubara, the burning of the embassy, etc. I accept any criticism of judicial reform that has not been completed and which has had shortcomings, but to argue that the reform has ruined the Serbian judiciary, only means that we are not ready to face the facts that the judiciary was before the reform. All indicators show that the reform has produced excellent results and as regards the level of penalties that have been imposed and the efficiency of the courts that have worked. The efficiency of the courts was raised to 91%, which was never before in history. That is why I would ask all those who speak today about how reforms should be carried out and that all the assessments Serbia has received for its reform are allegedly bad, to read the European Commission report, which says -- the legal and institutional framework for the rule of law in Serbia, including the fight against corruption and crime, has been improved. Serbia will be at the top of the world following the confiscation of assets stemming from crimes in the coming period. I would ask you to remind the MPs who speak too loudly and thereby violate the Rules of Procedure. Serbia will be at the top of the world following the confiscation of assets stemming from crimes in the coming period. Three years after the application of the law on confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts, it proved to be one of the most effective laws in Serbia. As the results show, 350m euros have been seized so far. Given the procedures that are now being conducted and, Mr. Minister, since they are being initiated under Article 359, answer us how will these cases be resolved, given the changes to the laws you have proposed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7987	Thank you. We don't have a word for it anymore. Minister, do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7988	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a duty as minister of justice to say that, unfortunately, the period of insult of judges, prosecutors and court officials and justice in Serbia is much longer than the debate at this session, that it has been extended several years into the past and that something that may be freely called an experiment in vivo on the same people over three years ago. I can say, on the one hand, the guilt of all of us at the time of the Constitution, when, acting as a state that has no legal tradition, we reached out for the establishment of something that is today a constitutional category, which has been talked about a lot, such as the institution of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, because we like to call on the countries of developed democracy. None of these countries have parallel bodies. That looks a lot different out there. But it is a provision of our Constitution and it is our duty to bring and respect what we have as citizens of our country and to stick to it. The insult of judicial officials began the moment people were chosen in an untransparent way, some elected, some not elected. As citizens with the right to say today – who you are returning, they have spoken and spoken – whom you have chosen, precisely because there was no clear criterion and it was not a transparent choice of the bearers of the highest judicial functions. Then we came into this sort of situation, in which we must, we are forced and we must act in one way. Why? Because this situation may be at least blamed by judges and prosecutors themselves, people we are willing to call out often in both the media and the Assembly and elsewhere, who are obliged to follow the laws that are adopted here. It is sad that our system is in such a state, that when they do not comply with the laws, and this lasts for more than a decade in Serbia, for more than two decades, even they themselves do not receive the necessary disciplinary or other sanctions. That's what we're all gonna have to work on. Today, it has been discussed what should possibly be the first move of the Justice Ministry to propose new judicial laws, and it is also proposed that they come first to amend the Law on the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. I respect everyone's choice, to say the means of political struggle, to see the reform of a system, but I am obliged to be objective and correct to say that it was absolutely impossible to do. This ministry has found certain decisions by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, to have entered into the procedure of amending the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and on the State Council of Prosecutors. According to the Constitutional Court's decisions, unselected in an untransparent manner, judges and prosecutors would have no one to return to office and we would have entered into a kind of blockade of systems and institutions, and that would not suit anyone who seriously wants to access system and first-class state problems. It is also necessary to say that the return of unselected judges, prosecutors has been completed, but the judge is not completed, because the High Council of the judiciary, acting according to the final decisions of the Constitutional Court, has returned the last 57 unselected judges, but has not yet passed the deadline of those 30 days, as long as it is necessary to report to its office, and after that they have not sworn an oath. A lot of praise has been expressed and a lot of criticism for the proposed changes and additions to this set of laws. I'm going to refer to some of them that I consider to be the most critical of their accounts, but before I do, I have to say that some things have been said that aren't and aren't true. First, it was said that this government, whose member alone, was leading an ad hoc fight against corruption and organised crime, which does not stand at all, because whoever followed the media a little better, who followed the report on the progress of the European Commission could be convinced that within the Ministry of Justice and the state administration of the Republic of Serbia, and in collaboration with other ministries and state bodies, the creation of a anti-corruption strategy for the next five years with the accompanying action plan, which still does not know whether it will be for a year or be more ambitious, for two years, but which, together with the strategy, will be adopted in the first quarter of the following year. What we found as a government, and we need to make peace, is that we don't have a system to fight corruption. The anti-corruption system also involves strengthening institutions. As much as any of us, not as politicians, but as ordinary citizens sometimes don't like some decision of the courts, whichever court we're talking about, we need to know that these courts are still the institutions of this system and that our state is better, that our state is neater and the courts would be even more orderly. But that's why the responsibility lies with the whole society and the opportunities that its development is accompanied by. When the judges of the Constitutional Court are mentioned, I ask you here for a unique approach. Let's not talk about how we don't like some decisions of the Constitutional Court, and we like some of them, so when we evaluate the decision on the symbols of the Autonomous Province, then we like the Constitutional Court's decision, and when we evaluate the constitutionality of the Law on Transfer of Jurisdiction, then we don't like the Constitutional Court's decision. I'm just talking about the double arches, not exactly mentioning this, I've cited two examples of political waves. Decisions are what they are and should be accepted. Maybe some of us like them, don't like them, brought by the Constitutional Court. That's something to be respected. As for the criticisms raised on the submitted proposals in the law, i.e. in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code concerning the offence of abuse of the official position, I am obliged to say the following in Article 359. For many years, and that is not one year, not two, not three years, it has been more than a decade, the criticisms brought to the expense of the crime of abuse of the official position concern firstly the fact that as potential perpetrators of these crimes are absolutely equally mentioned by both officials and responsible persons. Only a crime of abuse of official office by an official exists in all European legislation. What is unclear to our partners from EU countries, especially foreign members of the Union, because they did not have the concept of social property, they do not understand why a responsible person interferes in this story. With such a solution as we have suggested where the responsible person is deleted from this crime, where he is incriminating himself through, hopefully a future member of the 234th abuse by the responsible person. We went one way that some of the countries went, came out of the school of Yugoslav legal theory and legislation, which had an identical problem, let's say the Republic of Slovenia, which has an almost identical solution. We have no objection, or at the time of such a change in their criminal legislation, we have not had any objections from European institutions to their account. We should remember a little bit more, I'm sorry that my colleague Batic isn't here. In early 2001, remind me if I was wrong, at the beginning of 2000, at the EU recommendation, we were completely overruled by the misappropriation of the official position. The late Minister Batic, who suggested it after six months, demanded the return of the crime. It's a crime that has existed in our legal system since 1957. This crime, prescribed in the Criminal Code, should be applied by our judges and our prosecutors. When that crime was wiped out, there was chaos. They didn't know how to act when there was no such crime. What exactly is done here? A clear distinction has been made between the abuse of the responsible person and the abuse of the official. What's the difference? It is enough to be taken and more carefully read the proposed legal provision. It is said that the responsible person responds in the event that a certain property benefit or other property benefit has been wronged. Oppositivity is seen in consequence, that is the essence of the story. How will the courts proceed? I believe, not maliciously, but I am convinced that each of us has a great deal of constructiveity when he speaks and performs here and is concerned about how the courts will act. Under the general principles of Criminal Law. So, from the moment of committing the crime to the verdict of law, the judge is "ex officio", so according to official duty, obliged to take care, therefore, under official duty to apply a minor sentence to the perpetrator of the crime. Neither did I, nor this Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, that's the general principle of criminal law. Speaking of the general principle, it was about eradicating an absolute ban on sanctioning certain crimes. There are two controversial moments here. The first disputed moment is that we have an intended ban on the mitigation of criminal offences, which is totally contrary to the general provisions of the Criminal Code, because in the general section of the Criminal Code it clearly states that there is a possibility of easing penalties in certain cases such as trying or helping. Then we brought in the same people, who need to apply the Criminal Code in a situation where they don't know which provision to apply. The second disputed moment is the catalogue of criminal acts for which an absolute ban on fines is provided for in a positive solution. We mentioned here a truly terrible event that happened the previous day, and I am convinced that none of us can speak indifferently about it, but let's say such a criminal act with this valid solution that you defend is not exempt from mitigation. If you're saying these are the most serious crimes that are excluded here, that's not true. The most serious are those crimes for which a prison sentence can be sentenced from 30 to 40 years. No such crime is excluded by this mitigation. Then let's be straight to the end. So it's obvious that whoever was doing the changes and additions to Criminal Law in 2009 did not make a clear criterion. You have the most difficult form of placing on the market and producing intoxicating drugs that are not excluded from here, and the other two forms are. So it's absolutely unclear what we're defending here. If we defend a solution, which if an initiative for the assessment of constitutionality was launched, would fall before the Constitutional Court tomorrow because it completely denies legal equality of citizens, what are we defending? I have to look back, and Dushan's code has been mentioned. You know, you can get what you want back on legal force, but we still live in a developed age of developed and protected human rights and civil liberties, and it's known how we can act, but I'm going to bring that into line with this. This is where one anomaly that exists is corrected. So that's how the code is written, the question is, who's writing the code? He writes it, among other things, and Serbia's top criminal law expert, a man all MPs here voted to be a new member of the VSS in the line of professors, an undeniable authority in the area of criminal law. There's a lot of them. First of all, I don't want people like that and their authority here to get muddy and question each other. It was written by judges, and believe me, about this provision that was attacked, it was an unequivocal consent and a representative of practice, a representative of the theory that this should be regulated by this crime. When we were talking, and I really don't think it's right to call someone who's here, and there's no right to answer, but for reasons that people are exceptional professionals and my associates, the next thing you know, if a judge's reporter in the case of Pahomi, you choose to be President of the Court of Appeal, if you choose another member more as president of the criminal court of the Court of Appeal in Nis, don't call on that case, for someone else. The judge's rapporteur prepares for his colleagues who act in a greater reference to the case and draws up a verdict, the rapporteur. Let's be principled once and for all, but that's an indicator of why the reform fell in that segment. Because it's been handled as best man, as in Burazar, as intransparent, and that's why it's fallen, so now we're like a society in an extraordinary situation, a difficult one. I want to bring up something else that I think is very important. They appeared among the first to be representatives of the parliamentary groups of some colleagues who were extremely constructive in drawing up this bill. For the first time, you had the opportunity to read the text of the working group on the Ministry's website almost a month and a half before the Law Bill arrived in the Assembly. You could have attended the public, published and announced in a called public debate. The ministry of justice and the state administration, the task force was more than open to any criticism that was sent to them. I have an obligation to say that this is only the first step in cleaning up our criminal legislation in general, believing in the well-intentioned criticism of a colleague, because we're colleagues by vocality and I'd just draw his attention to reading a little more carefully the explanation for the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It clearly states why it is not set to be the 1st of May or the end of May, because it is about comprehensive changes and additions that will follow and be in front of the Assembly at the First Regular Session in 2013 and you can read this text on our ministry's website. Please, for that very reason, we continue to perfect the text that is there and the extension of the public debate. So get involved. My colleague Pastor got involved. During my stay here to answer parliamentary questions, the man approached, we talked, arranged a discussion about the ministry and gave his suggestion to amend a certain provision of the Criminal Code and we respected. We are completely open and fully prepared for a different and new way of writing the law. I think it's a big step for democracy's progress in Serbia. I have an obligation to say that in the next period, based on communication with the Director of the Police, and as I said, this is only the beginning of purification, we will really take into account the very serious additional criminal and legal protection of members of the Ministry. And how much we owe each and every one of us to do it. I make a public commitment to work on it. Also, there's been a lot of talk about the criminal act of slander. I said, and I have no reason not to repeat this, that this proposal was an amendment to the Law, to some extent he looked up to that proposal that was withdrawn on July 27th from the congregation procedure. The proposal proposed decriminalisation and defamation and insults, so I'm a little upset that representatives of the previous ruling majority have a bit of a dissonant tone, whether they are for it or against it. Why did it only go to the decriminalization of one crime? That's why we're convinced it should go gradually. The experiences of some other countries show us that when decriminalisation was done entirely and on a shortcut, over a period shorter than the year after, they returned, not only those crimes, but also new ones, and that's not good. If we're talking about the necessity of criminalized slander, which can only be punished by fines, where erasure from criminal record comes after a year, I'm not convinced enough of the justification for such treatment. What the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group said remains the possibility of still suing someone. We live in such times where, unfortunately, much easier, at least the majority perception of citizens is such, a much easier punishment than a fine, because economic, social, social opportunities dictate such a situation, unfortunately. None of us should be happy about it. Do you know what's bothering me? I am offended by the fact that in the performances of some of my colleagues, I could see that someone most advocated to approach European standards, or standards for which the EU stands, is to a good extent denying something that the EU recommends. It has been said that no decriminalization of slander has been committed in UK legislation. Yes, please check out those who said that. Indeed, it is in the UK legislation, both in the legislation of Ireland, and in the legislation of Estonia and partly in Cyprus, when we talk about EU member states, and about candidate countries or those not candidates, we have this example. It is not true, ladies and gentlemen, that the MPs, that the amnesties are convicted of the crimes of a serious murder, and the crime of a serious murder is the murder of a member of the MUP in the performance of official duty. That's not true, because it's a felony excluded from amnesty, look at that well. The government has accepted an amendment that, that's right, you believe it is, look a little bit better. I don't think you've looked. Look, you'll see, the government has accepted the amendment proposed by the Justice Committee. The amendment isn't part of the law, is it? Yes, it is. Look a little bit better. So I believe it's a real mistake. Yes, it is. (President: Please do not communicate. They're not amnesty. There'd be a lot to talk about. If we are already presenting statistics then in this statistics we can also say that in the previous five years there have been 119,875 cases of unfounded freedom, 119,875, in a period of five years and 10 months. So let's not brag about the situation in the judiciary that suddenly changed in three months, because it can't. The problem is really big, general, social, and it's looking for our synergy and joint resolution because we're not doing anything for the mandate of a government or for a year. We tend to solve the problem at a decades-old level, because it's a matter of building a state. Let me finally say something, not for myself, but for young people who were brave enough to raise their voice against something that sometimes political elites in Serbia don't want, will or won't be afraid to do. I'm here personally named for breaking the law. You know, if the M.O.P. doesn't ban some set, then that rally is allowed. You can take a look at that. You can only see that it's a misdemeanor in cases that only the organizer of that same set can be responsible for a misdemeanour. Just so you know in the future when you file a report, how it's done. Has the court banned the student parliament of the University of Belgrade Law School? I'm asking if he banned that organizer together. You know, they've been organised in their time, mostly for completely justified and legitimate reasons, student protests in Belgrade. It was during these protests that a group of these Protestants were introduced and a group of hooligans who started breaking, breaking and destroying the city. Exactly, as another top political one then accused the organizers of these gatherings of being hooligans. Now use the same matrix. Come on, be principled. If you're up for someone who's got a letter or a sign that belongs to an organization, so we can all recognize him wherever he is in town. By the way, I have one obligation to say. The MP of that parliamentary group, which is the most glancing in the criticism of both me and the organisers of the meeting, came before the Assembly to welcome the meeting. But he was met with whistles and disdain. (Kenan Hajdarevic, from the "Who are you talking about?") Name it. I don't want to talk about names, but it's very well known. I told you, the MP's group that was more grizzly about it. I don't want to talk about names, it's said enough on my side. Look at the tape, and you'll see. So, the MP of the MP group went out to the Assembly, when he was welcomed by whistles, then retreated inside and made the statement he made. Therefore, be correct to the end. (Judita Popovic, from the place: Name. You know which one of your colleagues used to come there.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7989	Please don't throw away. (Kenan Hajdarevic, from the city: What are these insinuations? )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7990	It's no insinuation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7991	Minister, please return to the topic. MPs, don't get out of place.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7992	So you can always expect openness to a constructive approach from the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, for constructive problem-solving. I am convinced that each of you today who criticized the proposed text of the law did so constructively, not from criticism. The evidence that he did this constructively must have been numerous submitted amendments. The ministry and the task force will pay attention to each of these amendments, study it carefully, and the government will decide whether or not to accept these amendments. I hope that something that should be normal in every normal country is now becoming normal in Serbia as well. There were no such amendments last time, so we turned them on through the board and they became an integral part of the law. I would ask you, there would really be a lot more to talk about, it's mostly cases where one of my fellow MPs, probably not on purpose, didn't carefully read some crime, so when it was defined that the perpetrator had the intention of doing something. There's no stopping. So we have cases like that. I thank you for your constructiveity. I am convinced that we will accept good and constructive amendments and thank you for your attention. (Hope Kolundji, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-15-0.u7993	You have no right, we're done. I have a question. It doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Kolundjia. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutors and the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Judges. We continue our work on Monday, December 17th, at 10.00 hours.
