ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8376	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the vice-presidents, I would like to refer my question to the minister of education, science and technological development in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Zarko Obradovic. It concerns an important question – how can we keep our minds in this country and not let our possible negligence make that mind go to waste? I specifically refer the issue to the University Library in Belgrade, one of the largest libraries we have to the national institution. Every library, let me say it, is a sort of storage of mind where books, documents and other things that allow one nation to learn, develop, be educated, be enlightened. My fellow professors asked me to ask this question, because the University Library has been able to maintain all its vital functions for a long time at a minimum of minimum funds. Let me say that in Serbia we have three large libraries that are national institutions. The first one is right here on Vrakar – the National Library of Serbia. As far as I'm concerned, it works in a satisfactory way. The second library is the Library of the Mother of Serbian in Novi Sad, which is particularly important because of our cultural and historical tradition. It works in a satisfactory way. The third library is just the University Library in Belgrade, a large library that is the head of Belgrade University. She, unfortunately, has been operating with such a minimum of funds for a long time. I ask this question in the form of a request from the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Zarko Obradovic, simply asking to be seen with the University of Belgrade Rectorate, with a rectoral college, with a rectoral advice to help this library. Let me say that this question is not just a question about some left library and some dark left non-essential topic. I am fully convinced that these issues of education, science, enlightenment of the nation and society are as important as the issues of fighting corruption, which we in the SDPS sincerely, resolutely and without a reservation support. This issue is as important as economic development, rebirth and economic measures, because neither of us will succeed unless we pay attention to those institutions like libraries, where the minds of the nation are kept, where the minds of society are kept. If we let the mind we have, whether in some individuals who are talented or in libraries in the form of books, collapse, this nation, this society cannot have a stable future. Finally, let me mention that if the state has money and local self-government if they have the money to wheeze the city, to whale cities for New Year's, to dance and sing, then we certainly need to find the means for something that is a cultural and scientific institution, such as one great national library. Someone once said the people needed bread and games. I agree with the need for bread, there's nothing without it. Let me say that the people need bread and brains. To get educated people, people of some knowledge today and tomorrow in this House and in institutions, we need to take care of these institutions that are key national institutions and help them. At the very end of asking this question, let me make one conclusion. We can only get out of this crisis by being smart. Not singing and dancing, it's not the time. So, once again, I ask, in the form of this issue, the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to try together with the Belgrade University to find a solution that one such important and important scientific, educational institution, such as the University Library in Belgrade, has the means, the rank and the importance that truly belongs to such an institution. I used to take books in different languages when I was a student. I have benefited from it, and now as a MP, I want it to be useful to another student, another young man, who will put his knowledge into office of this country. Thank you for your patience and thank you in advance for your response.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8377	Thank you. The next to be reported is the People's MP, Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8378	Dear President, I asked my parliamentary question at the government institution last month, in November. Since the deadline has passed, I have not received an answer yet, I would like to ask again the Ministry of Culture and Media why they have not answered my parliamentary question concerning local media and in Serbia at all, the media strategy? Also, my specific question referred to the Information and Propagandic Center in The Tower, which informs in four languages and also informs the radio in four languages, as well as the newspaper in three languages. I'm asking the Ministry to answer that parliamentary question I'm asking again. I asked a parliamentary question and December 5th. The deadline also expired for an answer. I didn't get the answer until today. It refers to amnesty, in fact to the Law of Amnesty, whose changes we recently made. I will read one more parliamentary question and ask the Resort Ministry, Minister Selakovic, to answer me, because I think we are here because of citizens, citizens have chosen us to be MPs, to be their MPs in the National Assembly, ask questions and simply wait for answers, call us every day and create unpleasant situations. My parliamentary question referred to the Law on Amnesty, i.e. persons entitled to amnesty under Article 1. The amnesty law, which was on the prosecution of Serbia's courts. They are to this day at the service of punishment. The APB was suspended as soon as they entered the service. But some courts in Vojvodina, especially in Sombor, which were referred to by my parliamentary question, for example, the man who was on the arrest warrant, for nine years, has been on trial, and has no right to amnesty. I'm asking the Resort Ministry to answer my parliamentary question as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8379	Thank you for this. I fully agree with you, I expect that everyone to whom a question from the government is referred, within the time limit foreseen for answers to the MPs, because the institution of asking questions must be respected. We will insist that all those who are asked questions from the Government must answer the MPs, whoever they are. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8380	Mr. President, the recent death of a young police officer who, on official duty in Vlasotanc, has laid down his life is the best example of a very bad picture in which our society lives. What SPO and DHSS are looking for, not only from the police minister, but also from the government and the general public, is good that the Director of Police and the Assistant Minister of Police went straight to the scene, but we are primarily asking that it be left behind and not forget the family of the dead police officer. To make the state, on its own, at least in part, repay the man who gave the state his greatest value, his life. Last year, police officers were suspended who beat two Roma from Vrsec. Police Minister Dacic, as soon as he saw the video with "the tab" he reacted sharply, angryly, and received victims in a democratic manner. He apologized to them for the rudeness of the police and police officers who broke the law had the consequences. However, I don't think that there should be any difference between the violence committed, because we are witnessing that for a whole decade in the fight for European Serbia, citizens of Serbia have been beaten throughout Serbia. Hundreds and thousands of videos of this type are on the same social network on which the police minister saw a video of Roma harassment from Vrsac, a social network of "ju YouTube". No government after 2000 and representatives of the government who came to power, largely, thanks to precisely those beaten and beaten, for a decade of citizens across Serbia, has found it appropriate to publicly apologize to those victims. This was not done by any police minister and no police minister has visited the families of those found to have deprived the lives of the state, above all, of the crime at Ibarska masteral of the Veselin Boskovic family, Zvonko Osmajlic, Dragan Vusurevic, Vuk Rakocevic, then Ivan Stambolic, Zoran Djindjic. But there are many of those where we still don't have for their murder a judicial epilogue, and they're believed to have died in a similar way. First of all, I mean Judge Simenovic, Slavko Curuvija, Dadu Vujasinovic. My question to the police minister is this. Will the police minister, according to the beginning of the procedure, ask to review all the footage of the anti-cancer police behaviour that has been public for a decade, to establish the abusers, to suspend and to bear responsibility? Will the Prime Minister apologize to all the victims I've counted in his initial manner? Are we going to start making and building one different, normal, fairer, democratic society, because let's not forget these people are mostly beaten, their heads are broken and their hands are broken for a different European Serbia? It is good for our political scene that in the meantime the parties that were then the biggest opponents of European Serbia are now on the European path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8381	National MP Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8382	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I would like to ask you, Mr. President, so it's only formal, because I really don't think and I don't have the illusion that you will be able to decide on your own, independently of the Government, when and if you will put two draft laws on the agenda that have arrived from the AP Vojvodina Assembly at all. It is two legislative proposals that have a major impact on the student standard, which concerns amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. The second law refers to the Development Bank, i.e. the Development Fund, as well as the name of the bill. So, while one solves the question of employees of the Development Bank, what will happen to their status after this Development Bank is dissolved, and the other is about improving the country's relations, this government towards students who are not well, the best solution to this existing Law on Higher Education. You know, when problems arise, they need to be solved, and that's what the Dukes recognized, and in that sense they proposed certain laws to this high house. However, there would be no problem if this were not really a political issue, because every issue concerning the relationship between the Vojvodina and the Republic always has a certain political content. That's why I said at first, and I can't expect you to give me a clear answer, however, it is the government that will decide how this parliament will apply to the proposals of a law that comes from Vojvodina. You know, when these problems that are constant solve, then it happens to us that the SNP "Our" is re-announced. They are advertised in such a way that they perform a certain media harangus by jeopardizing, threatening, insulting, insulting, specifically, the current B92 media house, and doing so after some time they have attacked, insulted and threatened, threatened the civil sector, NGOs, individuals, cultural workers, Mr Vejvod etc. The government doesn't react to that. He's not responding, so we have one particular big problem and a big case. What happens if this message is sent by the government, literally not responding to such threats, what if indeed such extreme groups feel that their freedom is great about their way of working? Their mode of action is nothing but a threat in the clearest of sight, so that's intimidation. Whether they will stop, it depends only on the government's relationship to such groups as the SNP. Unfortunately, even the Constitutional Court does not consider that there are reasons to stand in their way. Unfortunately, the government, too, is not responding to such a message. So what society has to think and what society has to think if on the one hand some have the freedom to threaten, to insult, to threaten, and on the other hand the state has no adequate response and reaction. In that case, we lose our right to freedom, we lose the right to democracy, and you know how, without democracy, we will be left with just such extreme groups and one frightened public. Therefore, it would be good if the government made it clear what she was thinking and how she thought she was responding to this kind of very serious threat.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8383	Thank you. I just want to remind you that article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly define that the president of the National Assembly proposes the agenda. We did it without any government opinion when it came to the law where the government is not a proposing. This can be confirmed to you by Mr. Istvan Pastor, regarding previous laws, which has not happened in the past eight years, when others served as National Assembly President, so apparently they did not have such hearings about the laws that came from the AP Vojvodina, which, of course, will continue to be a practice in this House. I am here consulting with the National Assembly College and the presidents of parliamentary groups, which I consider to be the only ones who are relevant to give me comments and suggestions, and of course we are also consulting with the government, as regards the legal solutions proposed by the Government. As for what you said, it's a question for the government, I wouldn't get into it, I'd just tell you, since you've given some information that indicates that it's, to say, doing certain crimes, like you said, intimidation, intimidation, etc., so if you have such information, please report it to the police, competent state authorities, because knowing about the crime, and not reporting it is a crime. I expect you to do this as soon as possible in the police, to the competent state authorities, because I think this is the way to solve this kind of issue through the institutions of the system. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8384	Dear People's MPs, the Presidential Assembly, entered into force this morning at eight o'clock a temporary customs regime agreement at the newly established border crossing point. The deal, agreed a few days earlier in Brussels, says that for a period of time until 10 January or 17 January, customs duties for goods leaving central Serbia to Kosovo will not be charged, nor excise duties, but that excise goods will be able to be transported in trucks of up to three and a half tonnes. I'll, first of all, say something about it, and then I'll say something concrete about it and ask a question and a request for an explanation. First, in principle, these agreements in Brussels with Pristina are never clear. At least they are clear to Serbs in Kosovo. Our government always has one kind of statement about what's the result of the deal, so that after three, four days, it always turns out it's not a deal, it's something else. Then Eulex interprets it in its own way, and Pristina in its own way. I would remind you that after the December 7th meeting, where all these were allegedly agreed, there were major problems at the border crossing, because EULEX customs officers and Pristina customs officials were demanding that the goods be charged. Then the government acted through one document, which was sent to representatives of Serbs from Kosovo, the whole story you know well. I'll remind you that then, from a statement by Catherine Ashton, it was actually seen that on December 7th everything was discussed, but not customs and not what the prime minister told us was the subject of these talks. So, at the very least, we have more conflicting information, but mostly contradictory behavior, based on what's called the so-called. "Agreement" of various officers at that border crossing. That is, therefore, one general problem of these talks and negotiations, which must be resolved, I think, above all, by better information. The government must say exactly what was said in the Brussels talks, even if those agreements were unfavourable, because what is unfavorable cannot be hidden, at least not from Kosovo Serbs, which are subject to these talks and agreements and which, of course, suffer and suffer based on their results. The second thing, as far as what's agreed, and a few days ago, and applied from today, is actually the question of what happens to certain excise goods, which can't be transported in trucks up to three and a half tons, at least in this period, which is subject to this temporary agreement? It is known that all tanks have a capacity greater than three and a half tons. They transport excise goods, oil and gasoline. These tanks will obviously not be able to transport oil and gasoline until 10 and 17 January, when they say, a final agreement on customs duties, where taxes are paid, etc. So, in these two, three weeks, will the Serbs, i.e. People who transport and trade in this excise product, stop doing it, because there are no less tanks than you know, or they will pay for excise duty at the border crossing, there is no third. So, there remains one open question and from this agreement yesterday, which you will see in a day -- two will show as a major problem at the border crossing and Serbs will protest again because they will not have oil and gasoline in that time. Again, we have one unresolved question, which we delay for later, and the victims of this are people who use certain types of goods. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that in Marty Ahtisaari's plan, which is a proper and personal plan, according to which the government acts, so not only this one, but the previous one, which has made the arrangements, and this government is implementing them. When it comes to customs and excise duties, it is said explicitly that they will also be charged through central customs services in Pristina. Look at that plan, that's what Pristina and Brussels are up to. I'm not saying that our people will respect it, they'll probably fight to keep it that way, but if you've applied at least seven – eight provisions of that plan, Marty Ahtisaari, in other things, with the setting of borders, tables, personal documents, etc., I'm afraid things will go on like that and on. That's one warning, which is very important for this moment. In any case, these issues, both general and individual on this agreement, are very important, above all for Serbs in Kosovo, and we should, not get an answer, less for that, but for Serbs in Kosovo to get a clear answer to those open issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8385	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. Excuse me, Mr. Atlagic, did you want a word? Yeah. I had you in the system, but you're gone. I'm sorry. The word is Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8386	I signed up neatly, thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on December 4th at the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I asked Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, and it refers to the bus lines of the city transport company – 41, 43, 95, 96, etc., which traffic from that side of the Pančeva Bridge, i.e. with Zrenjaninski en route. In this regard, many citizens of Kotec, Sheep, Borche, Palilu, the entire Starfish, experienced discomfort every day. However, at the entrance of the Pančeva Bridge, buses stopped, boarded buses at the city's station, and stopped all the way to the station until the passenger tickets were examined. As a result, there was a delay in other lines on this side of the Pančeva Bridge, indignity of employers, and there were layoffs in working organisations. Instead of getting the answer, I got the insults of the unprecedented proportions and me and the citizens, tens of thousands, in the name I asked. Such haughtiness, such passion, such a political culture I have not only seen, but I have not even read in history. It reads, instead of Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I was asked by the minister of traffic, the Belgrade mayor's reply. I'll read in one sentence that insults you. The answer is, "I am not answering pointless political questions, which are bordered by common sense," the quote concluded. Dear citizens of Borce, Ovce, Kotec, Palilula, Zvezdare, here's how Belgrade's mayor treats Belgrade's citizens. I insist, I ask the parliamentary question again, why are the buses of those city lines stopping right at the administrative border of Vojvodina and Serbia? Secondly, to answer this, why aren't the cards being examined during the ride and does the mayor think about removing this unseen miracle? I note, in the last five days, when the snow was falling, they no longer stop on that line and not only don't stop, they don't even check the cards. If that's the consequence of my question, I forgive him these insults, but in the end, I recommend that my questions, these three questions I've asked frames in my office and frame the answers, and let it continue to be the motto of his political culture. Dear citizens of Belgrade, you see who our mayor is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8387	Thank you. According to Article 90(1), I, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Ivica Dacic, Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Aleksandr Vukic, First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence and Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice and State Administration, I have also called for the sittings to attend: Predrag Maric, Assistant Minister of Interior, Miroslav Jovanovic, Assistant Minister of Defence, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Colonel Ljubomir Nikolic, Head of International Military Cooperation at the Ministry of Defence, Goran Matic, Director of the National Security and Security Council and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of the agenda. National MP Judita Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8388	Thank you. Mr. President, I'm reporting for article 107. Rules of Procedure. I believe that you have violated this Parliament's dignity when, as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have excluded your own responsibility, one obligation to report the existence or possibility of a criminal offence, and when you have directed only me as an obligation, if I perceive any criminal activity, to report it to the authorities. In fact, you're responsible for two reasons. I've already said one, based on the President of Parliament. You simply cannot thus lower the importance of this Parliament when you exclude yourself as one responsible person for reporting the existence of a crime. On the other hand, you're in a coalition in Arangelovac with a SNP "Our". The SNP "Our" is a coalition partner...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8389	Please explain to me what this has to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8390	Of course, I just told you. So two basics exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8391	It doesn't matter. This is okay, but this other one really doesn't make sense...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8392	I'm sorry, there are two grounds for violation of Parliament's dignity... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8393	I won't let you talk about what you want if it doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure. You have to understand that. So, I didn't rule out my responsibility, I just don't have any knowledge of committing crimes. You said you had knowledge of the execution of crimes, and I instructed you on this basis to report all knowledge to the competent state authorities. Any knowledge of any crime I will immediately inform all competent national authorities. I'm not an authority conducting an investigation, nor do I have methods and mechanisms to investigate, unlike those that the state pays to do so. You have repeatedly said in today's statement that you have it and I call upon you to make sure that these crimes, or whatever you consider not in accordance with the law, are reported because I consider it to be the best way to fight crime through the institutions of the system. I think it's extremely correct and extremely clean. National MP Zoran Ostojić, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8394	Mr. President, I think you're violating article 27. Rules of Procedure. You do not allow MPs to complete the call. You give her your word, you interrupt her, and at the same time you answer from that place and continue the controversy. I think it's an abuse of that function.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8395	National MP Judita Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8396	You've just injured Rule 107. You have violated this House's dignity. Mr. President, I really expect you as a politician, as president of Parliament, to read the paper. I assume you're reading the paper. If you're reading the paper, if you're watching TV, you have knowledge of what all these newspapers are publishing, what they're carrying on the threats and about the insults that the SNP "Ours" pose. These are your coalition partners in Arangelovac. This means that it is complicity if the government, made up of a coalition in power, made up of SNS and others, does not respond to such a kind of threat and insult that the SNP "Our" refers to the NGO sector, civil sector, individuals, Mr. Veyvod and B92 TV.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8397	I really can't react based on newspaper inscriptions. I think it would be very unserious if the president of the National Assembly reacted based on what's being written in the papers, because then I would have to react by a really large number of things or if I were to indicate who's where the coalition partner is with, and that's why he has an obligation to do so. I don't think I've really broken the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to go back to the hearing if possible. National MP Predrag Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8398	Article 27. So, just so that no material error remains, that you have informed that in the previous eight years no legislative proposal has been put on the agenda, which is in line with the present and present constitution, could also be proposed by the circuit assembly. In the period from 2004 to 2007, as I reminded the discussion a few days ago, there were no such proposals, because in 2004, for the first time, and since then, unfortunately, it has not been so that all the legislative proposals have been sent to the proposings with a question of whether they remain on these proposals. The Assembly of Vojvodina, Mr. Tamash Korhec and then the President of the Assembly, first Mr. Nenad Canak, then Bojan Kostresh, did not do so. There, just a material correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8399	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. By unanimous decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 8 to 15 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Details of the data as much as the MP's group has time, you've got in the material. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall, by mutual agreement, determine no more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak once, up to five minutes each. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3, Article 170(1) and Article 157(2) respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2012; a proposal for a decision on the participation of a member of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2012; a bill on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment of a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre; a proposal for a law on the approval of a defence cooperation agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Greece; a bill on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on co-operation in the area of defence; a proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Indonesia on Cooperation of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Serbia's Agreement on the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Angola on the Republic of Serbia. I'd like the Secretary of the Assembly to inform the minister that we've begun the search, so we can begin the discussion. Does the Prime Minister's First Vice-President, Defence Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic want a word? Yeah. ) The word is made by Minister Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8400	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2012; Proposal for a decision on the participation of a member of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2012; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment of a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement on Cooperation in the Area of Defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Greece; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on Co-operation in the area of defence; Proposal for a Law on the Memorandum of Understanding of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on Co-operation of Serbia. I will try in a relatively short time to expose, since we have already discussed something at previous sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to say what I consider to be the most important. After that, I will be free to participate with you in the discussion and to exchange views and opinions on each of these agenda points. First of all, as far as our participation in multinational operations is concerned, we, in the previous period of time, have gone into that kind and political but also military activity that brings significant results to our country. I would like to take the opportunity to apologize to you for not having made the whole decision earlier on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's not thanks to the mistakes of this government, at least to this ministry. When I asked why it wasn't in September of the month, when it was possible, and I apologize for not being three months ago, it wasn't because of our mistake again, but because of some other parts of the system had been spent in the same multinational operations, so the Ministry of Finance was not able to accept it until we had completely solved all the problems. I want it to seem stronger than the last time I talked about it, and we, as you know, only participate in multinational operations that go under the flag of the UN and the EU, last time I stressed the enormous political importance that brings it to us. We pay part of the costs ourselves, but some of the costs are paid by the UN or the EU. At this point, we expect another $245,000 to lie in our account for the two operations our military is participating in. I can tell you that we planned to continue actions in Congo, Liberia, Ivory Coast, Cyprus and Lebanon. I personally visited our 46 members in Cyprus, and I expect to visit them in 2013 and Lebanon, but in several cases I would try to point out how important this is and how much it contributes to development, not only military-military, military-police, police-police but also military co-operation and political co-operation. Only two of our doctors who participated in one of the multinational operations in Chad have so improved our country's reputation. In Norway where I had recently stayed, we were offered greater co-operation and military-medical co-operation, military - educational co-operation. Our experts, especially our doctors, are more respected than it was in the previous period and more than we could have expected. This specifically refers to Atalanta operations in Cyprus. I can proudly tell you that our 46 members, and of the total number of members in all multinational operations, we have 25 women. These are people who support all the conflicted parties, because they do their job the most professional way. No one has ever had any objections. Our soldiers have never made incidents. With all the commanding officers we spoke with, they were extremely pleased with the participation of our forces, our units and represent the best possible ambassadors our country has. I'd like to point out another fact that concerns other points, but also these points. We have good political co-operation with all the countries of the world. You know that we have from what's on the agenda today, you see that we also have with a large number of countries from different continents, from Latin America, Africa, Asia, and also with the Russian Federation and with many EU countries or countries that do not belong to the EU but belong to NATO. Our military co-operation is always higher than our economic and political co-operation. It represents the best part, and I can say it openly, and so will the representatives of all the countries, here in our country, represent the best part of our country's co-operation. I think we have succeeded in this regard in significantly moving into serious processes and professionalising and modernising our army, but to establish in several ways and in different ways co-operation with the defence ministries, the possibility of adopting administrative acts between the authorities of different countries. It is understood that the most concrete military-military, military-economic, military-educed and military-medical co-operation. You have received an explanation of the proposal as much as necessary and in what way and how financial resources are available. If you need to go into the smallest detail, I would like to tell you that members of the Serbian Army are currently participating in seven multinational operations, in Liberia, Ivory Coast, Congo, Cyprus, Lebanon and Uganda. We have four military observers on the UNMIL mission in Liberia, three military observers in the UNOSI mission in the Ivory Coast, six members of the medical evacuation team by air, one officer and one deputy intelligence-analytical speciality officer in the MONOSK mission in Congo, 46 members in the Cyprus mission, 46 staff officers in the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon, and this has recently completed the deployment of our troops in Lebanon. Everything went absolutely fine, the equipment was late one day, but everything else was fine. Our units are stationed in place and in the way that these plans are intended. One headquarters officer on the UNTSO mission in the Middle East, one headquarters officer on the UMTSO mission in Uganda. We currently have two members of the Serbian Army, one doctor and one medical technician boarded an Italian military ship that is also the EU's command ship in the fight against pirates along the coast of Somalia, the UN "For Somalia Operation Atalanta". What is very important, once again, I want to point out that this is what we are absolutely raising Serbia's reputation in the world. Our bilateral relations with which we are involved in these operations are always better than everyone else, because together, somewhere without weapons, somewhere and under arms, we are involved with their representatives in protecting the return of peace and security in the world. It opens up other capacities and capabilities for us. Accordingly, don't take me for each point individually so that I don't have to explain everything, if I'm interested I'll be working to answer every question in that area, but I'd like to say that the defence co-operation agreements we're confirming today or that the National Assembly should confirm, with Greece, Brazil, Angola and Indonesia, are the agreements that most often speak of military-economic co-operation. Above all, military-military co-operation is discussed in an agreement with Greece, and we have a lower possibility of military-economic co-operation, but there is possible military and military-military co-operation, primarily in the area of the co-operation of special units of our air forces. Because of the major crisis that exists in Greece, due to the major economic crisis that exists in Serbia, we are mostly developing these relations at this level, and this is confirming the previously signed agreement. What I'd like to point out to you about Angola is one of the most important things for our country. Otherwise, it is about all countries that have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence, and something different is the case with which I will talk later, which will be one of the next proposals by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As far as Angola is concerned, we have the most important economic interest here. It's about military-economic or even partial military-economic co-operation. In fact, in Luanda, something like VMA, a large military hospital, should be built and we should also participate in the full renovation of the airport. One, and we expect two more of Serbia's largest construction firms later, should participate in the job. Some pre-contracts have already been signed. It's about contracts worth hundreds of millions of euros. So the pre-negotiations are already signed, one of the most important things for our country in the military-economic sense, which we sign with certain countries. In that sense, I want to thank you for what you supported when we talked here about our co-operation with Algeria, because the Mixed Committee will soon have a session, but with Algeria as a gift to the Republic of Serbia, as a gift to our people, I have to say one news, which is that the Ministry of Defence in agreement with the Ministry of Defence of Algeria will make a decision, under the most favourable conditions and in the tender that our companies will participate in the construction of as many as 15 thousand apartments built by the government of Algeria, and that is a big, extremely important thing for us, so that in the next period, in 2013 and 2014, we will have no small means to enter our business due to the engagements in this great African country. At the same time, around Indonesia, we reactivated co-operation again after a long time. It's about confirming an earlier agreement. But we have reactivated this co-operation in terms not only of military-military but also of military-economic co-operation. I expect that, in the next period, we will sign contracts on the sale of ammunition and on the continuation of the talks, therefore, on the sale of primarily light weapons, which is very important for our dedicated industry. The entry into Brazil, due to the distance of the country, due to the distance of the market, is primarily about military-economic co-operation, we cannot develop such express military-military co-operation, as we can with Greece and because of the proximity of our territories, but military-economic co-operation can develop with Brazil and we are on our way, above all, through Jugoinport SDPR and, of course, the Ministry of Defence, to establish co-operation with both Peru and other South American countries that have no problem with arms exports, which do not have a problem with what we rarely call the end juzer. So we're going to try and do our best to improve that co-operation in the next period, because we think we have extraordinary references to exports and our knowledge, primarily in the field of medicine, but also exports of goods, tools, weapons and equipment that our dedicated industry is able to produce. I'd like to point you to the humanitarian center in Nis. We expect further co-operation. Thanks to the creation of this humanitarian centre, we have had great results in defending and liquidating significant elemental disasters. I didn't know that's what it's called, the liquidation of elementary disasters, but it's what's professionally called, no matter how strange it sounds to us. I think that from the first agreement to the last agreement signed with Pučkav, we have made a lot of progress and improved our co-operation. We expect him to be a total of 35 employees, to make the centre even more ready. The board of directors would be a body that would run the center. They would be representatives of both the Russian and Serbian governments. In the coming period, we expect this co-operation to be even better, even stronger, especially because of climate change, but also our insufficient preparation for certain natural disasters. When it comes to floods and fires, we expect this humanitarian centre in Nis to be a significant phase for the service and the population, for the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and for all those involved in the elimination of these elemental disasters. As for the protection of the confidentiality of information, I hope I haven't skipped any of the proposals. This legislative proposal has been in the assembly procedure since the beginning of 2012. For the first time in this area, there was a need to conclude bilateral agreements as general agreements in this area. This is the first bilateral agreement that has a general character in the field of exchange and protection of classified information with one member of the EU and NATO. It enables the development of mutual co-operation with Slovakia, as well as the application of already concluded mutual agreements, especially in the areas of internal affairs, defence and judicial co-operation, and also enables joint training and different types of joint participation in multinational operations. For your information, we participate in Cyprus under the auspices of Slovakia. So, our soldiers, along with the Slovak soldiers, perform this duty in an extraordinary way. This legislative proposal creates an administrative framework for our co-operation. It's about some type of type of contract on persons who can transmit certain information, how data are protected, and how these data are kept secret. I think it is another act that brings us closer and that gives us a chance for better relations not only in Europe, but also with everyone who wants to develop different and better relations with Serbia today. I would like to say, since this is probably one of the last speeches to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during this year, at the same time thanks to the correct relationship and co-operation in the previous period, that the Army of the Republic of Serbia, that the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia builds the best possible relations with everyone in the world, that we build these relations in the interests of our people, both economically and politically, that we will continue with such a policy in the future, while safeguarding what is our basic role, which is to be a guarantee of security, preservation and peace, but also a guarantee of defence of our national and state interests in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The army of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, as well as all other state authorities, since the agenda points that fall within the area of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence are ready to respond to any kind of challenge in the future, in the responsible, serious and way that stems from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you again. It is only in the end that I assure you that each of these agreements has our reputation and our relationship in the world become greater, stronger, closer, with many who can participate not only indirectly, but directly, in further progress and development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8401	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8402	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Presidency, the first Deputy Prime Minister and representatives of the Ministry, is ahead of us with eight acts, namely eight draft laws and two decisions. In turn, I will discuss them, in relation to what the Deputy Prime Minister has said so far. I will first mention these five draft laws, which are the proposal for a law confirming a defence co-operation agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Greece, a bill confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on co-operation in the area of defence, a bill confirming the memorandum of understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on co-operation in the area of defence and a proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Slovakia on mutual protection of military classified information. What's most interesting to me about all these bill proposals is that, in addition to this basic military co-operation that we have with all these countries, a lot of these laws are related to economic co-operation. That's, as you just said, the construction industry, in which we've already shown how much we're worth in the world. Unfortunately, such engagements over the last 10 years have not been as much as this construction industry should have. What's also interesting is that even when it comes to military equipment, since we've proven ourselves back there for years, what we have and what we can do, we're going to make pretty good contracts, as you said. In addition, the shower and military-educated institutions and the experience our army has, which in the good part of the countries you've listed, at least I, with my humble knowledge, see that they don't have nearly as good experience and education centers as we do. What I had the opportunity to hear from the Ministry of Defence's representatives is that they are quite interested in our military institutions, not only in the field of the military, but also in the field of medicine, when it comes to the Military Medical Institute – VMA. My discussion also concerns the proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2012 and a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2012. Absolutely both decisions are commendable, but there is one flaw. I don't want this to be a criticism, but I think it's a flaw, that we shouldn't have allowed us to enter the month of December and then adopt a work plan for 2012. I am going back to the reasons of the ministry people, who explained on the Committee that also because of the political situation that was currently in the country, and these were elections, in the light of all other circumstances, this decision has been extended. I just want to make an appeal, that in 2013 this decision, i.e. One plan, we adopt at the very beginning of the year. What's good is that through reports we could hear, besides participation in over 100 and some members of the Republic of Serbia's Army, I mean, officers and soldiers, even one platoon that you said we had fully engaged in Cyprus, there were no losses so far. As much as we say they're in peace operations, of course there's always a risk, because for that reason, all these people are sent on the same assignments. That was the most dominant thing for me in this whole discussion of yours. I absolutely agree with that, and that is what your argument is, that such missions are necessary both at the UN and at NATO missions, because, therefore, our diplomacy, above all, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we give them one wind in the back and we enable them to communicate better with all other countries with which they have direct or indirect co-operation. In my view, in the future, eventually, we just need to pay attention when our units, individuals, officers or anyone else is sending on similar missions, to make sure they're not some country where this militant form of terrorism is expressed to that extent, that we can question a part of our country's security here. I look directly at terrorism, but in any case, as far as I know, all these decisions, in addition to the Ministry of Defence, this highest legislative home in the Republic of Serbia, are making those decisions and, of course, we will participate in all these decisions together. Why am I saying this is acceptable to me and it's nothing unusual and nothing new? Not only because since 1948, it begins our first official participation in our UN missions, but because, through time and through our history, this similar thing has happened in a slightly different way and it has been called differently. Long ago, in the 13-14th century, we sent our landers, infantry, on some similar missions. The question is how peaceful they were and how different they were from these today. What's also very important is that all members of the Serbian Army who are sent on missions like this go on the principle of volunteering, if I'm not mistaken, right? That principle should remain the same until the end. Finally, not least, we have left a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment of a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre. I will take this opportunity, and I am sorry that there is no Prime Minister here today, Mr. Ivica Dacic, who felt that pragmatism in that decision, at the moment we already signed an agreement to start building that centre in Nis. How pragmatic that decision is, it was already seen during this year when we had a fundamental disaster in terms of dozens of fires in different locations for which, unfortunately, we are not technically equipped enough that we can react and that we can put out all these fires. Then, to one of my most pleasant surprises and people who were commenting on all the actions that were going on in those days, for the first time they were flying planes over Serbia without being passengers and not pouring bombs on us, they poured water and helped us do what we certainly couldn't do ourselves, which is to put out all those fires. So once again, I want to say that Mr. Ivica Dacic deserves absolute commendation for signing such an agreement. What I would like to say in the end, in addition to these commendations, is that we should not only praise the Prime Minister of the Government, I would like to welcome Mr. Vukic, the first Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Army, to congratulate him on my efforts so far in the fight against organised crime and to wish him to be persistent in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8403	The word has a Minister Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8404	I thank you for everything. I just want to say, I think I explained why you didn't have these suggestions before in the procedure. There were a lot of objective reasons. Also, I would like to announce that the annual plan for the use of Serbia's armies and other defence forces for 2013 is already in the process and will be in front of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on January. In January, you will receive a 2013 plan. The same thing we did with the draft budget, where for the first time the budget was completed without it being 30 or 31 December, or that it wasn't coming in next year. That's the definition of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and that's what we're going to do. I would like to say once again that I may have been and personally, although I was not a member and I was not an MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but I was wrong or I did not understand enough in the earlier period how important it is and how important it is that our soldiers participate in multinational operations. That's a lot more than that. I kind of came from it, we got a million problems of our own, and we're still missing it, and that's all we're missing. I may have said it somewhere in public, I'm not sure, but I'm sure most of the public thought that way. I want to tell people, who think so at this point, that the closeness with countries and organisations, the reputation of the Republic of Serbia is growing dramatically and dramatically strengthens with every participation in any multinational operation. I want to tell you that you see it and that you feel it, that your political power in international circumstances, in international contexts, is growing enormously when you set yourself up like this and you act so seriously in the international arena. I think it was good decisions and the previous Government of the Republic of Serbia, that we are now promoting, developing, that it will be, I suppose, new things, but that's something we always see, to avoid any kind of risk for our soldiers, as much as possible. It's not a job, I said that once. The job of a soldier, the job of a cop is terribly difficult and I appreciate the job of a model but they can't die. These are the jobs where they get killed. It's the nature of business, and it's the things that, unfortunately, happen sometimes. So far, we've always had enough skills, skills, knowledge of our soldiers so that it doesn't happen. I visited our soldiers. You always have ten times as many volunteers reported for these operations as it takes people to leave. Ten times as many people reported as those who should leave. When we were in Cyprus the most tragic news that found us together, all of our soldiers, was news of Major Savic's tragic death. Someone got hurt in the country. It wasn't in Cyprus, Lebanon, Somalia, Ivory Coast or Uganda, but someone was killed in the country. These are things that unfortunately happen. A soldier's life is hard. Soldier bread is heavy. We politicians can't get hurt by going up the stairs here in the Assembly and our work is much easier than theirs. Their work is hard, and so is the job of cops, and these are the things that happen everywhere. I'm asking you that those people who may have this kind of skepticism that I've had myself, and I don't find it hard to admit it, which I think is human, to know that it's an incredible change in relationships when you send two doctors to some kind of focal point. I can't explain the level and the way we were welcomed in Norway just because we had two of our doctors, even less than that, but our people helped and proved to be extraordinary doctors, trained theirs. It's a completely different relationship. It's a completely different approach. It's a completely different approach. Not to tell you how much they appreciate it and everyone else from Slovakia, Cyprus. The Cypriots, because of our behaviour in every place from the American Congress to every other place in Europe, organize all possible manifestations, all possible objections, conversations with all who decide Serbia's future, helping us among other things are a friendly country, thanks to the fact that together with them or with everyone else we contribute to peace and security in their country. It's also my request for those people, unrelated to the political parties, who are watching us, which perhaps the importance of participating in multinational operations cannot understand as I could never understand, even though I wasn't in this assembly, so I couldn't even criticise it. I just want to ask them to understand it that way, and thank you for what you said. It's just the ones who want to go. There are always ten times as many of them and we still don't have that kind of hotspot they go to under NATO's flag. We have no risk here, nor any threat to the greater security of our soldiers, members of our armed forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8405	Thank you. MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8406	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on the day of the formation of this government, the SPO DHS expressed a political stance that is not dependent on the government's composition but depends on the policy implemented by the RS government. We have said, and so we will act, that we will vote in favour of these agreements, for all that contributes to the stronger integration of our country with the world. Anything that contributes to peace and stability, the prosperity of our country, the SPI and DHS will be a correct and constructive partner. In my previous assembly session in front of my parliamentary group, I have said countless times that I, like you, have broken some delusion and prejudice about the ideologically marked RS military because of the fact that simply this segment of our society is the part that it has done most in its own reforms. If all the other institutions had done what was done in the framework of the defence ministry's reforms, we would surely have met in the most part the standards for our country's entry into EU membership today. It's our assessment that the military respects clearly defined standards, which is a matter of professionality and responsibility and, let's not forget, it's a prominent patriotism. After NATO bombings, everyone on the other hand has acknowledged the RS military's express patriotism and unprecedented resistance and sacrifice in defence of their national interests. However, the SPO has always believed that the armed defence was the country's last goal and way of defending its national interests. Before that, national interest, security, territory, population are primarily defended by good policy, good relations with those who decide largely on our fates, our participation in decision-making centres and the understanding of the world in which we live. Serbia was a country that did not understand its environment in the 90s to 2000s, and what happens with the destruction of the Berlin Wall, with the collapse of the Great Soviet Union and the highest price of our own misunderstanding, we paid. After 2000, we set out to build broken bridges, and I want to find out for who knows which time to say that the RS Army and its professionals were ahead of it. In the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we have adopted a strategy of defence and a security strategy that is currently predicting the participation of our military in all organisations and the establishment of which strengthens military co-operation with everyone with whom it is possible, with whom it is in the national interest. As in the field of sports, Novak Djokovic, with tennis players, has significantly raised the reputation of the RS, it is true that the soldiers and our medical staff, including our businessmen working in the dedicated industry, thanks to Minister Sutanovac, who for me was the most pleasant surprise in the previous government, are in a positive sense, that these broken bridges and economic co-operation with many of whom we have worked with for a long time are now establishing and improving and it is good that you gave a brief assessment of the work of the previous ministry. I congratulate you on your courage because you have admitted that you have broken some prejudices, as I have said that the SPO has broken some prejudices in the sense that the Serbian Army is the continuation of that communist army with a negative sign. No, and everything just depended on politics. Even in those times of crisis, the military knew that it made a significant resistance to negative policy, and it strictly adhered to the Constitution and the law. Of course, it is difficult for us because our military peak is often completely unfounded and what the people would say – God’s justice is affected by the wrong policy and the car has often broken down on those who are not responsible. What is also a great delusion in our society is not only about military co-operation but about our co-operation with some other very important military-political and economic alliances that Serbian children will violently mobilize, take to Afghanistan, into crisis areas, that they will suffer there, etc. That's not true at all. On the day of professionalisation of the Republika Srpska Army, a job, with a salary of 32-33,000 dinars, appeared seven, eight or nine interested, and in multilateral operations we have ten interested, suggesting a very important segment and a delusion that needs to be broken, which is volunteering. With professionalism, with respect to standards, with training and with volunteering and with the economic benefit of those going there, with the country's personal economic benefits and economic benefits and improving ethnic influence, we have no valid and justified reason to be against these agreements. What we can say is that we need to continue in this direction, that we need to establish the best political, economic, military-economic, military-military relations, establish them and improve them at all levels. We are not happy at all with the reforms in our society since 2000-2012, because we must admit that it was the members of the SPO who dreamed that in 2012 we would live in a different and probably better Serbia. It didn't happen, but we can't go back in time. We must look to the future. Anyone who contributes to good and normal reforms in our society, anyone who politically builds bridges of co-operation, will be the greatest patriot. All the enmity, all the war conflicts ended with peace conferences. Always after the wars, all the warring parties had to sit at the negotiating table and define with the dominant influence of the great forces what would ultimately be at peace. It is good, then, that this government has continued to reflect the importance of those who have largely decided our fate and that some delusions have been broken that we will decide our own fate. Never in the history of mankind has a small country, regardless of the political order, decided for itself the fate of the world. It's the fate of the little ones. That's how it's always gonna be. What is our task, which is that in all times, all times are difficult, our small ship, our only country of Serbia, which we have tied to a ship of major and influential systems and societies, and to try to do all that is negative, and there was a lot of it from demographic policy, from foreign policy, from economic policy, from insufferable corruption and crime, to work together on this job. That is why I say that SPO – DHSS in this part will be a constructive associate, not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and, by the way, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Whenever you come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with such suggestions, count on our support. Of course, since the current fight against corruption and crime, the SPO, which was last government in 2009, said that the Colubara is on every corner and that this is an insufferable situation in our society and anyone who engages in an open and principled fight against corruption and crime, will have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8407	Replica. Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8408	I thank my colleagues, Chiquiriz, for giving me the opportunity to give the replica, even though I'm going to use that replica a little bit, given that some of the questions that were asked here could have been asked to me. The plan of use of the Serbian Army was sent to parliament in the first quarter of this year. So the Department of Defense did it on time this year. Unfortunately, there was no agreement in parliament itself that this would be on the agenda, although I spoke to Parliament's president on several occasions about it both because of the elections and, as you know, it was too late. There's no doubt that the Department of Defense delivered it in time. Mr. Minister, what you have been saying here today, there is no doubt that this is a continuation of the policy that has been met with criticism in this House, but I have the impression that we will finally take the view that what is good for Serbia, that it is good for the citizens, and that in Parliament at last will vote on things that are good for the state in a way, not through the party's prism of criticism, but through the prism of the interests of all Serbian citizens. Of course, from the position you're in, you can look at it more easily and it's much closer to you now. I'm glad that's the way it is. What I'd like to ask as a question, say I'm misusing this replica, you won't mind, because it's something I'm very interested in, and I don't have an answer from my colleagues. According to the new budget, the Ministry of Defence has abolished its own revenues. I think it's something that's extremely bad from the aspect of the defence ministry's functioning and the Serbian Army. I think it will greatly hinder the possibility of civil-military co-operation, including peacekeeping missions. I'm interested in refunding the costs incurred by the UN. Are they treated as their own income, or are they going to the Republic of Serbia's budget or are they going to the defence ministry's budget? If they go into the Republic of Serbia's budget, I'm afraid it's a cost to the Ministry of Defence and that's a very bad situation for you, as the Ministry, and I think we should work on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8409	The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8410	Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us a set of laws and agreements that will allow the defence system to be further strengthened, as only a strong defence system is a guarantee of a strong and stable state and is a key instrument in the area of state policy achievement. The goal of the defence policy is to have an army that will be feared by those who should be afraid of it, which they will be able to trust and be counted upon by our partners we work with. The fact is that Serbian citizens trust the church and the military most. The best indicator of the return of Serbian citizens' confidence in the military is that in 2006, 26 candidates were registered at the Military Academy in 240 places, with 1,550 candidates reported at the Military Academy in 2012, including 490 wolves. The focus of defence policy is, as you yourself said, intensive international co-operation. Participation in peacekeeping missions and multinational operations has a trend of constant growth, which is good, with the ultimate goal of the Serbian Army taking part in the preservation of peace and stability in all parts of the world. It is very important that Serbia, after a long break, return to the map of those countries that engage its units in multinational UN operations, as well as that Serbia is increasing its capacity to participate in peacekeeping missions. Serbian citizens are proud that members of the Serbian Army represent our country in the best way, both in front of the citizens of Cyprus, Lebanon, Liberia, the Congo, the Ivory Coast, etc., whose security they provide, as well as with members of foreign armed forces with which they participate in peacekeeping missions. We are very proud that members of the Army have earned many recognitions, gained respect for their colleagues and gained the sympathy of the local population in the countries where they were engaged. You yourself said that as a minister, traveling to America, Norway, you heard how many our soldiers were hired, especially how much they were praised. I particularly noticed your statement during a visit to Cyprus when the Cypriot defence minister and the head of the Cyprus mission told you personally that our soldiers are the best among the contingent in Cyprus, that they are doing their job in accordance with the duties and rules of service and in line with the needs of the population, not interfering with the country's policy. The fact is that members of the Serbian Army have shown a high degree of training and preparedness in all peacekeeping missions and that this raises Serbia's reputation in the world to a large extent. Finally, the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational operations is an important element of our foreign policy, as it strengthens Serbia's diplomatic potential for achieving the interests of our citizens and contributes to Serbia's being treated as an equal partner in relations with other UN member states and the Partnership for Peace. Serbia's active in international operations has an indirect impact on regional security. I think it is very important that at the beginning of your term you made it very clear that our country will be active within the Partnership for Peace, but that we will not be a member of any other military alliance. I think the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy on this is very clear. I also find it very important to say that the Republic of Serbia's military is not involved in missions that in any way pursue the interests of major forces. We don't need to go into security integration because someone is asking us to, because someone's ordering us, because that's how we prove ourselves to our partners or that's how we meet our international obligations. On the contrary, it should be our interest, political, economic, foreign-political. It's very important that such small steps, but very important, we raise our country's credibility. All those who disputed the participation of our peacekeeping forces in peacekeeping operations for security reasons, I believe they now have a different view and have changed their minds, especially because we haven't had any losses so far, and also because we're not sending an operational unit, but the officer's cover of soldiers acts in a state of headquarters, observational, as well as sanitary staff, the doctors you mentioned yourself in Norway. I am personally pleased that there are more and more women officers involved in peacekeeping missions. You said 25 officers are women at the moment. I hope that in the time ahead, that number will be even greater. When I mentioned regional security, I think it is a very important agreement with Greece, which we should sign, because of the proximity of the territory and because Greece is our traditionally friendly country, with which we will cooperate in the domain of defence and security policy. I would especially point out the signing of an agreement with Brazil and Indonesia in the area of defence, because these two countries are making significant economic progress and because we, as you said, are going to conclude significant contracts in our dedicated military industry. As for the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre, he has already justified his goal and proved his effectiveness this summer when Serbia burned and when this humanitarian centre assisted not only our country, but also Greece, Montenegro and BiH. I believe that it will fully grow into a regional centre in both the Balkans and Southeast Europe. It is clear that the establishment of this centre was necessary, primarily because of joint planning and professional training and equipment of units due to unpredictable situations, in order to protect people. Mr. Minister, I know that you are facing, as are the citizens of Serbia, with severe inherited problems, that the seriousness of the economic crisis affects you to plan priorities properly and define resources in the Ministry of Defence. On this occasion, I would like to give you on behalf of the NS parliamentary group full support in the fight against corruption and crime and in all the challenges you have successfully faced so far. Given that the defence system is a key factor in the area of state policy, the NS parliamentary group will support this set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8411	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8412	I thank Mr. Chiquiriz and Mrs. Filipovski. The MPs are obviously very serious about this debate. I also thank Mr. Sutanovac. I'd only tell him that there's no fear of getting no money at the expense of the Department of Defense, as far as the UN is concerned. I have here the paper of the National Bank, the Department of Foreign Affairs, and we are just being informed on December 17th that they have received in our favor the following funds: the employer of Indianapolis, the UN, in a currency paid $245,609,80. So, that money goes to the Ministry of Defence, but I don't see that this is the biggest possible problem and that it went into the budget, because I think this year we've made as much as possible in the conditions of the severe crisis and in the conditions where we want to reduce the budget deficit, the same budget of the Ministry of Defence as you, or me, or any citizen of Serbia can be satisfied, but one that can be sustainable and which can mean continuing to reform and professionalise our army. If you're interested, I'll give you the exact amount of financial resources. The total amount of financial resources that will be paid by the UN on behalf of compensation for the participation of Serbian military members in 2012 is 107,591,000 dinars, and according to the dynamics, of course, the established annual use plan. If you're interested in what appraisals and how we think we're spending, I can present all these details and all that information to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8413	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8414	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I must express my great satisfaction with the words that the minister has said today, above all in terms of further affirmation of the Yugoslav Army. We witnessed the military's anathemizing. Unfortunately, she was brought into a maltena situation that was to blame for everything that was happening in the former Yugoslavia. Today's debate and all that the MPs, and I see from the reported debaters, who support all these activities, i.e. laws relating to the military, defence and economic co-operation in the area of defence, points to a positive trend that changes in the position and role of the Serbian Army. Certainly, such a trend is directed by the defence minister, who, in an affirmative way and in the right sense, sees the problems of the military, regardless of the economic and political situation we are in. We are aware that we would like much more in terms of engagement and the equipment of our army, but we have to do, and I think that we will do so, that within these possibilities, and we will make sure that the economic situation improves, we do much more on this plan. I think that's what the minister said, but I simply need to say what the importance of these laws, these agreements, and the involvement of military members in various peace missions is. First of all, it is very important that we have defined that our members of the military participate in UN peacekeeping missions and thus present our country with dignity. They must see through direct contact above all else where we are, where and in which direction we can move, etc. It is a general experience of life and practice that is achieved when you find yourself in one environment where various members of the army of various countries are present. Second area when it comes to economic co-operation. I think everyone here should know and believe they know, that the military industry is actually the driver of all the most modern technologies that are being introduced into one country. All the new technologies that are otherwise known in the world are first introduced into the defence system and then applied to civilization. It has another aspect, the military industry as one segment of each country's industry, cannot function for itself, it must engage in full capacity and other capacity of the state, which contributes to employment and development in general by the state as a whole. When it comes to the military, I must say the importance of these peace forces. The army is next to diplomacy, in my opinion, the first point of friendship between countries. When co-operation is achieved on the military plan between countries, cooperation fields in all other areas are widely opened. This is what makes the essence of military co-operation between countries where friendship is strengthened and opportunities are created for other cooperation plans, and we have seen today through these few examples, how many apartments will be built and so on, and so on. Not to mention a military industry that will surely find in this respect a significant employment of its capacities to export arms and military equipment to friendly countries for their needs. I wouldn't much, simply through this announcement of mine, I wanted to express one pleasure as a former member of the army that I've worked in it for years, to break down once the delusion that the army can never be the enemy of its country, it's in the defence system of its country, it's an extended hand of a country's politics and it's always patriotically defined. How and in what way the army is engaged, used, it can never be blamed by the military for it, because the military is required by the Constitution to carry out the tasks of the leadership of a state. I rule it out, I don't think anyone can identify it with coups and coups that mean anything else, but that's the way to look. So it is necessary to see the army that it can never be the enemy of its country, that it will always be with its country, must be with its policy, must carry out the tasks that state policy sets. It is its basic role, and in that sense it should be watched. Unfortunately, through history, and through this new age, we have had opportunities for many heroes to be brought to us on a beggar's stick, or they were anatemized, and then aphirmized. I think, in that sense, Mr. Minister, it would take me once to make sense of this people and to look at their armies in this way and to do everything that they can to carry out their mission. A soldier's life, I must say, is extremely difficult. There's only one example I'd like to give. I don't know what it's like now, but in my 39 years and six months of effective service in the army, an officer or a deputy spends an average of five years in camp conditions of life, whether it's winter or snow. I want to tell you one more thing about how hard it is to live, that the average age of military personnel, I'm counting on those who retired, means the average age of people who were in the army, nine and a half years smaller than the average age of civilians. You know well that an army cannot enter a man who does not meet the basic criteria of a medical examination. This is one indicator that can show you enough and tell you that nine years of the average century, less than nine years, did not come from a pleasant and pleasant life, but came from an extremely stressful, hard, and above all I mean responsible behaviour of an army member towards the tasks that are set before them. When it comes to all these tasks, Mr. Minister, the laws, first of all, you have my personal, as a man, support, but also our parliamentary groups to continue in this direction and to affirm the army, not only within our country, but also in the world frameworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8415	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Next reported is National MP Natasa Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8416	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister, the co-ordinator of all security services, which is news in Serbia, so I don't know why we're skipping this and finally, Mr. Secretary of Defense, we accept your apology at the beginning of why it was actually delayed with this annual military use plan in multinational operations for 2012. Also, I think you owe us one more apology or at least an explanation, namely, these points are actually just formalities since everything that we accept and understand is more and more that we could end this point in two hours, and let's just say, you didn't come. There has been talk that you may be replaced by a minister of justice so that you owe not only to the Parliament, but also to the citizens, or as you like to say to the people. I always like it when you say it – my people, as if you are a king, as if it were not my people, our people. Of course, the LDP supports and has always supported the Serbian Army's peacekeeping missions and operations, and there is no change, and that is one consistent policy, so I don't have to bring up any lilac compositions and praises here right now. I say, once again, I am glad that we are increasingly, however, what is a fact, it is that all these missions are at both the UN and the EU just a continuation of some previous activities. So, Congo, Côte d'Ivoire, Liberia, Lebanon, the Middle East and Cyprus, the newer this mission with the EU in Somalia as regards the suppression of pirates, and I think it's very important and very good that we also participate. I also think that Mr. Minister, for the sake of the public, we should say one argument, since not so long ago, I would not really upset you and mention this radical past, but as a representative of the SNS your position last year was that participation in missions, the EU mission is a violation of the declared military neutrality policy and that this means secret participation in NATO operations, and I could even have our army found in Eulex. I'm glad that you've changed that policy and today with one relaxation we accept this decision too, but I think it would be good for the public to explain why it is today, simply so, I mean national interest, the interest of the state to have more information. I also think it would be important for the public, which is also good, to explain why you asked US Defence Secretary Mr Pannett to keep the NATO forces in Kosovo. I agree with you here, or LDP, but I don't think it's good to do the same, how do I say, kind of quietly, but it's important to explain to the citizens, because it's the only way we can progress, to develop, to modernise. Now I'm saying, so these are missions, these are operations, actually just a sequel, just a tap in place. I'd like you to tell us here what you're doing further, as far as training our troops and training soldiers, to carry out their missions and tasks professionally. Secondly, since I know that these trainings are already being conducted in the previous term, and secondly, more importantly, what is your plan, and what do you suggest to increase the participation of soldiers in these hired missions, since we are, in fact, lagging behind? Many fewer countries, such as Macedonia or Albania, have over 200-220 military participants in these peace activities. One Bulgaria has over 800, Romania over 2,000 soldiers. The advantage of these, the truth, the small countries of Macedonia, Montenegro, Bosnia, is that they are in one NATO membership process, so they actually participate in several missions. As for the money for that training otherwise, and what we were saying was that they abolished their own incomes in the military, I would also ask you, do you also have a plan to increase the funds for the military, since we know that the average salary of the colonel is 37,000 dinars and I think it's not bad to consider, I've said that before, to consider the fact that on the list of these excessive objects, there are 450 complexes, which are casary, former airports, cultural, sports centres, institutions, which is the market value of at least a billion euros. I think it's one way, and the other is, of course, that dedicated industry. I think it is, of course, necessary to expand the capacity, and above all to build the security of the system in that dedicated industry, I think it would be good to find some strategic partners in that field. I think you're talking about it, Mr. Minister, so it wouldn't be a bad idea to get that kind of information. I would also like to tell you that I would like to ask you this one question, again regarding your application to the US Secretary-General of Defense, that NATO soldiers remain in Kosovo. At the same time, Mr. Minister, I know that you certainly know that you are informed, and here the Foreign Committee, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has made one decision to accept the status of observer of the Parliamentary Assembly of the ODKB. Now I have to say what the ODKB is, because probably citizens don't know what it is. It is the Organisation of collective security agreements, headed by Russia and some former Soviet countries, such as Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Azerbaijan, Belarus, and there are no European countries, nor do we know who the observers are, which countries have observer status. On that committee, I asked for your opinion and the opinion of the foreign minister, as well as information, simply to know who the other members of the observer are, that we simply do not go to the strawberries, and that it does not cause any interference in European integration. However, I have not received such an opinion and such an answer, but that is why Mr. President of the Assembly, I do not know why, in this session, he made public the names of MPs who did not vote in favour of that decision, with the point that we hate Russia, which is absolutely incorrect. That's what we've confirmed, and MPs, I've found that in the media, and mostly I think that this kind of roll call is, at the very least, degutant. In the end, Mr. Minister, since I started with your first Deputy Prime Minister and Secretary of Defense, somewhere I'd like to say, I've been thinking, why did you ever accept being the Secretary of Defense? Then I came to the conclusion that you've been using these research and ratings, and then you've probably seen that the biggest problems are unemployment and corruption. It's easier to fight corruption than to fight unemployment, that the church and the military enjoy the greatest trust of citizens, so since you couldn't be some church chief, then okay, the defence minister. Let me tell you, it's not that easy either, there's also the corruption of the scarier and more difficult things, and right here I want to ask you another question, and this is also about the reputation of the military and the recent rejection from the agenda, the points that actually referred to the formation of the survey board, to the investigation of the murder of Drazen Milovanovic and Dragan Jakovljevic in the casary Topcider eight years ago, on 5 October 2004. Why did we refuse that? Also, there is a case of Leskovac, where we have three soldiers under suspicious circumstances. The same cases have not been solved. Do you intend to protect the military's reputation in this regard? I think it's one big challenge and I think we owe it to those families. They were not killed by Croats or Albanians, eight years have passed and we still have no answer. I think it's also one of the challenges for you and you owe me an answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8417	Thank you. I'd just like to say a few things about your question, which are, in fact, not government or government members, but the National Assembly. We decided, it is not the obligation and responsibility of Mr. Vukic, we decided not to continue the session on Tuesday, although we could get another authorised representative from the government, who would talk about these points, we had already decided that, since Mr. Vukic expressed his desire to be here defending the proposed laws, we would continue the session Thursday, so that he could be too. Before that, I had consulted with the MPs, and when I saw that most of the MPs agreed to this solution, so I decided that Mr. Wolf could be present and still talk about the points of the agenda, for which it is, to say directly in charge. That's why we didn't, we could have done it on Tuesday, but I thought it was more important for the National Assembly to have Mr. Vukic here when it comes to agenda points. I never said you or anyone else hated Russia. That's not true. It is true that they are MPs, which I consider to be the National Assembly, as you have recently advocated for the public in the work, I believe that everyone must know and so we publish on the site, who voted for what he voted for. I don't think the MPs are ashamed of how they voted for something. Those who voted against are obviously against our co-operation, in that sense with Russia. So those who vote – yes, support that kind of agreement, those who vote – are against it. Absolutely, that's my opinion, I can act as a member of my political party, it's my opinion that I have the right to express and I will always bring it up in the future. As far as this is concerned, since this is not the issue of Mr. Vukic, concerning the proposal, we have only pleaded as the National Assembly and it was the decision of the MPs, to reject the urgency of the motion for the Committee of Auditors, on the murder of two guards, which does not mean that this committee of inquiry will not be on the agenda. The National Assembly only declared that it would not be at this session on the agenda, for most MPs felt that there were more important points of the agenda. So that's not a question for Mr. Wolf, that's why I intervened. Did you want a word, Mr. Wolfie?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8418	I'm looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8419	Mr. Djuric has a word for his business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8420	You've violated Article 27, Mr. Stefanovic, right now. So the less important question is that after Tuesday, it usually goes Wednesday. So maybe we could have worked yesterday at least in the morning. I know it was big glory, but that's a less important question. You can't answer to Mrs. Micic from that place, as chairman and enter the controversy, in fact, to give a replica of what she was saying. You explained what your political position was, what your parliamentary group's political position was, or political parties, and that you made public statements in that capacity. If that's how you want to answer to Mrs. Micic, then you must place the chair of one of the vice presidents, go to your place, sign up for a replica and talk like that. You know we always advocate order here. There's no problem. I think anyone can talk to anyone, replicate, exchange arguments, but don't abuse the position of the chairman, take part in the debate from that position. I don't think the Rules of Procedure allow you to do that. Please refrain from it, even in today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8421	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. Mr. Wolfie has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8422	Ladies and gentlemen, I will make sure that I am not personal, regardless of what would be very easy for me to respond to all the remarks of political nature to Mrs. Micic, that I do not and in this sense do not abuse this pay phone, but I will do it elsewhere. Here I will represent the Government of the Republic of Serbia and try to answer all political questions that have not been provided by personal relations, my radical past, and I don't know what everything, by pointlessly repeating the coordinators of all security services. I suppose you think you've made all the most difficult insults when you say something like that, until the previous coordinators weren't allowed to look at it, let alone mention it. Unbound for all of this, I will try to answer your specific questions. As for the apology, I wasn't in the National Assembly, and I didn't represent it a year ago, not two, not before three, not before four of any attitudes concerning peace operations, but I was correct enough and fair enough, I don't think it takes courage, but honesty, to tell people what I was thinking, so even with that I went to the MPs and said that I thought differently, which was not at all a commitment and asked people, because I know that a good part of people, when I say a good part of people, doesn't have to be a majority, but one part of people is certainly thinking today in the way that I've been thinking. I don't know what more anyone can expect from me in this room. As for Tuesday, I'm sorry I wasn't feeling well, I asked the president of the National Assembly to postpone it for the next day. I didn't choose whether it was working or not yesterday. It was up to you in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since I remember, it has never happened in Serbia that the National Assembly is working for St Nicholas. Maybe there's a new principle to be introduced here now. For Catholic Christmas or Orthodox Christmas, the National Assembly has never worked. So, we may have made mistakes sometimes at some Islamic holidays or Jewish holidays, but as for Orthodox and Catholic, I don't think we ever did. As for mentioning who the king is and what syntagma uses, I don't want to look back on it. On the matter of pay, maybe people will misread what you said, and if you're right, the base is 36,000 – 37,000. If you're not, then I want to correct you. You've made a mistake, the salaries of the officer, not the colonel and the colonel, are between 37,000 and 46,000 dinars. So, you know, you're wrong. The colonel's salary, say Colonel Nikolic, who sits here next to us, with thirty and a few years' work experience, multiplying by working conditions, about 108,000 dinars. So his salary is higher than the minister's salary. I just want to tell you that you haven't spoken the truth. So, the Serbian Army does not live and does not work in the best possible conditions, but these conditions are incomparably better than what you tried to tell the citizens of Serbia. I also want to tell you that I didn't have any problem when I asked, and in a very polite way, I asked Mr Pannett to make a decision at the NATO Council session in February that KFOR soldiers should not stay away from KIM first because it is the interest of the Serb people living at KIM. That was one of the reasons why I did it, and every time I do what I think is in the interest of the Serbian people, as I did two days before that the strongest criticism of The Hague tribunal's work before the UN Security Council, does not hesitate to be uncomfortable because of unpleasant views or difficult views by those who think or observe the work of the tribunal in a different way. My job is not to represent the interests of anyone else, but the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's how I acted, and that's how I'm gonna behave. As for our co-operation or participation in any military alliance, in every place, not hiding anywhere, because that is the policy of the Republic of Serbia established by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which I have no right to change neither I nor any other member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is that we have a view of military neutrality. So we're not going to be a NATO member, we're not going to be a member of the ODKB, we're not going to be a member of anyone else. When Mr. Rogozin was here, no one hid from him that our goal was to go to the EU, but that we would not enter NATO or the ODKB. We also told representatives of all NATO countries that we want good relations, that through the Partnership for Peace we can develop the best possible relations, but we cannot go to NATO, because that is the country's policy. So there's no hiding, no special games and games. We've had observers in NATO for several years. I think they also had those parties that were absolutely against co-operation with NATO. I don't see what would be particularly controversial about it. As far as the guards are concerned, the competent state authorities are always doing their job. It's interesting and I'm just waiting when both those from 2004 and 2001, 2002, 2003, and I don't know what years to resent this government or me personally, but since I don't have any political or any other problem, we're fully prepared to participate in any survey committee if this survey board can contribute to something, not to appear on television and anything else. As far as public opinion research is concerned, seeing as it's become modern, that politicians say about it in the last three days, I guess it's always an auto projection of what is most handled, and starting with what they would do or what would be run by them, they think it's being run by someone else. That's what Decard used to say a long time ago, that he said something best distributed amongst people, that everyone thinks they have enough, no one would change with anyone, so people count on that if they think of something in a certain way, that you, too, want to do the same thing. That's not what I was thinking. My intention was to contribute both personally and to make a party to which I belong do something if it can in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If the country can move forward, it can, and if it can't, nobody can. Someone else will come and do the job better and better. I don't agree with you that it's easier to fight corruption than to do other state affairs, not because someone would praise their work, I don't think so, but it seems to me that those who, I would never want to say, don't have enough desire, nor do I remember saying it, but those who didn't defacto participate. If they were, then you'd know it's hard to find a harder job than that. I'm still saying that we're only at the beginning and that I'm only sure that in the end by creating the institutions of the states they'll win. Since all this is going to end, it's going to be pretty uncertain and certainly not going to be an easy fight. In the end, I don't know if I owe any more apologies, but I just want to say, given Mr. Kosta Arsenović's discussion and all the other MPs. I am pleased by one thing, which is that today in Serbia, except for those who want to be underprivileged at all costs, there is no one who would question the role of the Republic of Serbia's military, but also the MUP and our emergency team, led by Mr. Maric, all the people who have shown themselves able to do their job with no party and non-party bias, by the fact that the military belongs to all the citizens of this country, that all the people or the greatest number are experiencing it. It's one of the things that presents us with a great deal of importance for the future and one of the things that we can boast about. In doing so, I'm not going to say it's my fault, it's a soldier's credit, and I'd rather give recognition to the previous representatives of the government's authority than to myself, which I think would be fair, although I would have these significant objections to make. Since I said I wouldn't talk about, if anything party content, or our interpartial debates, this would be quite enough. Anyway, I'm grateful for your support, too. As far as the plans are concerned, I'd like to say that we're going to have more participation here, and none of it's a touch in place. We'll have a lot more contracts, a memo with other countries, and you'll expect that by April of the month. I hope that we will boast much more about the realisation of these agreements or the implementation of direct economic contracts of what we have signed as memoranda in the previous period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8423	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8424	Articles 27 and 103. I'll try in 20 seconds to explain why I think I have the right to a replica. Mr. Vukic mentioned St. Nicholas's day at one point. Since before that, I was the only one who talked about it, I think I had well assumed that this remark... (President: No, Mr. Vukic didn't talk about it, and I don't think you have the right to a replica. I can explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. To my previous intervention you did not comply with the Members of the Rules of Procedure which regulate the apportionment of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, you replied to me whether you considered that there were injuries or no injuries and that you referred me to the appropriate procedure, i.e. the possibility of voting on the plea in the day of the vote. As for yesterday, first of all, you will never hear from the LDP a single remark or doubt about the situations when your health, safety or anything else is at risk. You won't hear it from this party. The LDP's objection to what wasn't working wasn't on it. She was just a reflection, maybe Mr. Vukic doesn't know that, about what happened on Saturday, and I'd say political terror followed here by representatives of the ruling majority, and above all by your political party. Representatives of the ruling majority are ready to work day and night, to work Saturday and Sunday to pass laws, primarily anti-corruption laws and accuse the opposition of not wanting to work, and then it wasn't working on Tuesday afternoon, so all day on Wednesday, etc., etc. That's all there was to it. This second one, I won't answer. The LDP's remarks on this government, on this ministry, are primarily related to the unpreparedness to get more serious into NATO integration. These are the remarks that we also made to the former representatives of the state administration's authority, and for these syntagms, I assume Mr. Sutanovac's name and function are hidden.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8425	You had no right to do that. I really didn't tell you that you had the right, if you're not satisfied with the explanation, to come forward in the voting day. I believe that I have not violated the Rules of Procedure and that, on the basis of Article 90(2), the President of the National Assembly may provide explanations concerning the work of the sitting and other issues. Of course, if you are not satisfied, you have the right to be heard by the National Assembly. The next reported MP is Sasa Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8426	Dear Mr President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the URS parliamentary group, I welcome the first Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, representatives of the Government and the Serbian Army, noting that I am authorised to first unequivocally advise that the RAS Group will fully support these draft laws, namely the decision we are considering today. We could treat this fourth item of the agenda, united debates as also routine, as some of the authorised promoters have explicitly and explicitly put it out. According to the Law on the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, if I am not mistaken in Article 140, the National Assembly is the only one who is obliged to make the decision necessary for the implementation of this plan, as proposed. However, regardless of the slightly procedurally routine character of the agenda points, I would like to stress that the support of the URS is not so. It's not routine, i.e. only on the basis of the default membership of the assembly majority and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It has its own emotional and its own theoretical and rational dimension. Full membership, commitment to the solution, decides to support these proposals. When we talk about the emotional dimension, at the risk of accusing myself of being theatrical, I want to remind you that the MPs of the URS are always aware of the fact that we are talking in front of the Sentinel Constitution, behind which the Prime Ministers sit in the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The word was the first Serbian Constitution of 1835, which is one of the most liberal constitutions of the era, which is only the legal political final expression of the events of February 15th, 1804, when it was raised in the progeny of the Serbian Civil Revolution. The date, the beginning of the Serbian Civil Revolution, is the Day of the Serbian Army. This unequivocally confirms that she understands herself as the successor of that emancipation and patriotic armed component of the Civil Revolution of Serbs. This is what the Serbian Army represents with it, and I would like to make it simple, with a dose of infancy, to say the emotional reasons for serious understanding and such proposals and support lies in that message which, as a parent, I am telling my own children. Serbia's history is, in fact, the history of our family, because it has not been mentioned on February 15th to the day of today, any war in which our army participated, and none of which depended biologically on our existence. I believe a large number of MPs can share this argument with me. There is another reason for deep emotional attachment to what the Serbian Army represents. The MPs of the URS are not from some particularly privileged social class. As you know, our MPs are from many towns and cities of Serbia, from Sainta, Zitista, Pogorjevac, Zaječar, Kragujevac and many other cities. We barely have two deputies from Belgrade. We belong to that poor so-called. the medium social class, which has suffered severe damage in times of transition, which in search of its consolidation, just as the Serbian Army wants what it has of its resources to make available to the community in the best interests of society. We also know the mentioned question of the social status of the Serbian Army officer, we also know that it is being corrected, but we know what this issue has been going through, as well as the material status of the Serbian Army itself, just as we know that this component, this deficit, never affect the commitment of the future and what the orientation for improvement is. We are already on the verge of those deeper and perhaps more politically significant rational reasons to support such proposals. It's already been said, the URS repeats it without any additions or changes. We know that the Serbian Army is the most prominent segment of the general system in terms of reformation, orderliness, organisation. It is something that calls forward for the respect of those political forces that seek socio-political aggression, the improvement of the overall social community of the state and the political system. We also know that the issues of security and defence are actually state-of-the-art, capital issues, not only of our political moment, but we could say, modern civilizations. The fact that the theory has long known and reiterated that the modern era is in fact marked by the dominant on the issue of security of military issues, military-political and military-economic aspects of these issues. And the university was changed in the second half of the 20th century by the structure of interest of the military-industrial complex. Knowledge has been altered by the action of precisely these relevant factors in the modern world. The modern world cannot be seen as an indirect and secondary fact of security as just an integral meaning, the comprehensive importance of this issue is what calls for seriousness whenever we touch the topic of defence and national security and here in Serbia. What the URS parliamentary group particularly welcomes in the two decisions in question, as well as in laws that mainly define improving co-operation in defence areas, is the unequivocal need of Serbia, which has been recognised here, to contribute to international peace and security. This active peaceful policy, which represents one tradition of this climate, is particularly focused here and comes to terms. This is now what may be more theoretically than for the level of political decision-making, but certainly for the level of political thinking of particular importance. You know that, probably in meeting this point of the agenda, theoretically and on certain specialized web portals, certain issues of our defence system have been updated and, for example, the issue is precisely mentioned in these discussions of military neutrality. There are many codes of noises in the debate over this topic, and precisely from the potential importance of the topic of strategic orientation, for perspective, for adequate positioning in the modern world that needs to be understood and in which to participate and build a future for our offspring, is not this atmosphere of code forest desirable for the adoption of reasonable, responsible, important political answers. What are the codes of noises, say, in the attacks on the declared neutrality most often mentioned? The most common argument to be demystified is an argument without the senselessness of self-proclaimed military neutrality, allegedly that only recognition of neutrality makes one such declaration valid. This is not true in one formal sense, because we also know about the content of the final act of the 1975 Conference on European Co-operation and Security in Helsinki, whose component and declaration explicitly promotes the right of sovereign states to self-proclaimed neutrality, concerning the issue of self-proclaimed neutrality with the issue of sovereignty. It is also a fact that it is not an act that is part of international law, but rather part of international respect based on the number and importance of its signatories, and that means, in the end, that it is quite controversial what the degree of respect in the external context of such a declaration is. What seems to be fundamentally more significant, and what we have in the idea of international military co-operation, participation in multinational operations, which is whether the idea of neutrality is in the best political hearing...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8427	Please, the subject is very interesting. You've stepped away from the agenda. We're discussing neutrality, which is not on the agenda. I listened very carefully. Please move to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8428	Mr. General, if you think that the decision that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has to make on the engagement and use of the Serbian Army in multinational operations has nothing to do with the declared military neutrality, then I will respect your position and give up the explication that I was otherwise convinced would be valuable. Then, instead, I can only say that it is very good that in our defence system there is an Institute for Strategic Research in the Department of Defence Policy sector and that it gives a very significant contribution to thinking about topics for which civil policy often lacks courage. As a number of times the removal of prejudice, the expansion of its own understanding of the modern world, is a condition for Serbia's further progress. The URS parliamentary group unreservedly believes that making these decisions and laws is a step forward in this direction, that the participation of Serbia's military in multinational operations, actions of peace beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia, is not only a result of commitments undertaken based on UN membership and participation in the EU accession process, but that these are decisions in the best interests of Serbia and its mandatory development of a peaceful active policy. The URS parliamentary group is convinced that any establishment of partnership co-operation with the international environment is a richer self-esteem and self-interest of the Republic of Serbia. Contrary to any closure, opening and partnership in the free world, it is in the interest of the peaceful policy that the Republic of Serbia is leading in the interest of progress, not just the result of our commitments, adopted on the basis of UN membership and in the EU accession process. I am sorry to be denied the will of the chairman to contribute to the understanding of some important aspects of which I say that our policy, civil, civil, does not often have enough courage. What's brave is that the Republika Srpska Army always has enough readiness, based on a certain shift in understanding, to welcome the political establishment's decisions as they mature. I think it is of common interest to follow with a deeper understanding of the strategic document of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, the commitment to work, so that with more courage and more tolerance for the topics to be opened, Mr. Chairman, we can move forward faster as a society in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8429	I think I was right, because everyone would have needs, and that's a broad subject. So it's a good thing you fit into the agenda, and thank you. The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8430	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, honourable ministers, as former soldiers, is always a great pleasure to speak of peace. I'm doing it today with special pride, because members of our army and the M.O.P. bring back the world-famous peace. The draft laws and decisions now on the agenda in this united debate regulate the legal basis of the engagement of our units in the past period, i.e. in the year at the end, 2012 It is also significant that the existing peacekeeping forces will continue in the following year, our participation in them will continue. In some countries, the composition of our peacemakers has been increased, which places our country, our side by side, with many countries whose soldiers keep peace in the war-threatening areas. The contribution to the preservation of peace is the desire of every soldier. All the places where our armed forces are engaged, as parts of peacekeeping missions, all the military and police are a good opportunity to gain new knowledge, but to apply the existing experience of our members of the armed forces for the sake of peace, stability in these endangered areas. In particular, it should be pointed out that most of the members of our forces who are of command character, as well as the sanity staff, whose work in the framework of the peace missions has always been assessed by the highest marks. Serbia's army and our armed forces have spent the past 20 years under various names last difficult time. The reputation of a Serb soldier and an officer was on the lowest possible branches. In front of elected soldiers and members of the MUP, it is a huge and difficult task to regain that reputation. With the annual plan of using the military and the armed forces, as well as the decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2012, we are legally closing the chapter of the participation of our peacekeeping forces in the year ahead. We're laying groundwork for next year, with increased forces in certain countries, where we will increase our contingents. It's impossible, when we talk about peacekeeping missions, not to point out the members of the MUP. I am particularly referring to the members of the MUP who carried out a peacekeeping mission in Haiti, who by their work and efforts, especially after the situation and the great earthquake that hit the country, set high standards for members of peacekeeping missions and received the highest recognitions from all international relevant factors. The gradual increase in our peacemakers speaks for itself. Trust is the expertise that our soldiers in the world have become recognizable as a positive relationship to peace and efforts to preserve peace where it is most necessary. This attitude, to a large extent, also affects the image, as you, Mr. Minister, have said earlier, makes it easier for the ruling structures, for you and for all who represent the state of Serbia, to bring forward the burdens that are ahead of us more easily and better. I would particularly point out that most peacekeeping missions, not to say 95% of the peace missions that our people are involved in, are under the auspices of the UN. If we consider that the chairman of the UN General Assembly is our esteemed colleague and MP of this Assembly, Vuk Jeremic, it only gives the basis that we can better and more hope for a better and improved image of the Republic of Serbia after 20 years of something that we have survived together and put on a pillar of shame, although we do not deserve it. The defence co-operation agreements between the Republic of Serbia, Brazil, Indonesia and Angola have indeed been of multiple importance, especially for the purpose industry of the Republic of Serbia. This specifically refers to the Agreement on Co-operation with Angola and Indonesia, for which we have received information on the Defence Committee that even trust missions are being prepared in those countries, so that our dedicated industry can easily break through those markets and make as much income as possible, both for the budget and for the state of Serbia. I'd like to make an agreement with the Republic of Greece. Because of the specificities of the Balkans and possible hotspots that can always escalate, especially because of the large and trendy Shyptarist separatists, who in all ways are trying to make their great Albania, there is also this agreement in all areas and in all areas, as foreseen in the agreement, of great importance. The traditional friendship of the Serbian and Greek people is not at stake. When we put all of this together, this agreement really has great importance for the future as Serbia and I believe Greece as well. The agreement on the establishment of a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis, more specifically in Serbia, which is now at ratification in parliament, is an excellent move by previous authorities, i.e. The previous government, and I would like to point out in particular that Minister Dacic, who and his colleague, Šojgu, has found, video and recognised the possibility of Serbia becoming a regional centre for emergency situations, humanitarian situations, for difficult situations. Whenever it's difficult, Serbia is ahead of the hyanitarism, as well as in humanity and in the fight against disasters. It turned out to be in the past, i.e. This year, with the floods and the fires themselves, the centre justified the possibility of existence. I believe that the plans, both the Serbian Government and the Army and the MUP, simply one defence system, provide for a lot of funding in the plans for next year to enable this humanitarian centre to modernise, strengthen, and with the help of the Russian Federation and equipment, which will bring one great advantage in the coming period, that we can almost be the centre of Southeast Europe, when it comes to this kind of organization. The SPS parliamentary group and I, personally as the president of the Veterans Movement, will support all these agreements and we will vote for them in the voting day. In the end, I would point out the need to say that all members of the peace missions are themselves professional warriors and soldiers, and thus veterans. I must stress the need for this parliament to pass once before a law on martial law, which, in any case, will apply in one segment and to members of the armed forces who carry out that duty in peacekeeping missions. All in all, I believe that there will be an increase in our troops and that everyone will return alive from the territory in which they will defend peace and carry out their activities. To wish a happy way to those who leave and to return to their families and the state of Serbia, all living and healthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8431	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8432	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government has submitted several agreements on bilateral co-operation and two proposals for decisions concerning the participation of security forces in peace operations. I'm going to go way too far with these two decisions, because in principle these agreements are not controversial. Not only are they not controversial, but they could be said to be welcome, that they are desirable. It is about agreements establishing a legal framework for co-operation between Serbia and a number of countries none of which have recognised the secession of our southern province, which seems to me to be irrelevant, because I think we will all agree that it would be extremely illogical for Serbia to deepen military co-operation with countries that accept Kosovo's secession and thus directly endanger our country's security. That's not what this is about. It is the countries of Greece, Indonesia, Brazil and Angola, none of which have accepted the secession of the southern province. I repeat, these are agreements that will certainly benefit both these countries and Serbia itself. The same case applies to the Agreement on the Serbian-Russian Humanitarian Centre. It has already been indicated in several discussions here, and I don't think it is necessary to waste words about the benefits Serbia can have in the agreement. The benefit has already been shown this summer, when the forests in Serbia burned. The co-operation needs to be deepened and there is again praise for the Serbian government. However, it is not a portfolio and it is not you, Mr. Vukicu, but the Minister of the Interior and Prime Minister, Mr. Dacic, but Mr. Maric, you are in the capacity of the representative of the MUP – all praise. It certainly has DSS support. We will vote in favour of these agreements, i.e. to confirm these agreements. We're getting to a point that's a little bit more complicated. These two decisions concern the participation of Serbian security forces, military and police in peace operations. You know the DSS has a slightly reserved attitude and there are a few problems. The first is a formal-law problem. We've violated Article 140. Serbia's constitution because today we are making a decision on something already realised in 2012. The responsibility for such a thing is not at the current government. We heard from the previous defence minister that he was neither at the previous ministry, the previous administration that in time delivered the decision to the National Assembly. Obviously, responsibility is on the previous ruling majority. However, we have violated something that is exclusively the jurisdiction of the National Assembly because it cannot be used by the Serbian Army outside the borders without our decision. It was used in 2012 and in a legal sense it was not a valid business and it simply does not belong to a serious state. I thank the Minister for announcing that we will be able to discuss the 2013 annual plan very quickly, and we hope that these mistakes and indifferences will not be repeated in the future, and we have no doubt that all this will go well. So much for that formal legal problem. We're getting to the point. The Democratic Party of Serbia makes the difference between UN peacekeeping missions and EU-led peacekeeping operations. Basically, we don't have a problem with this first one. They're not controversial. We have repeatedly pointed out in this home that the UN is the only universal representative organisation dealing with collective security and its missions as such are absolutely legitimate. Where the question can be asked, and we asked that question, about the mode of participation and the extent of Serbia's participation in those missions, first, because those missions cost that cost is not too much or perhaps not too much. He's growing with our increased engagement in those missions. We have some data that in 2011, we spent 18 million dinars on missions, two-thirds of which were returned through the UN, and the total cost is six million dinars, which is ultimately or almost negligible. For this year 2012, this has increased significantly and I have contradictory data. Perhaps the Secretary of Defense will be able to resolve the dilemma. The motion for a decision includes a figure of 525m and some of the dinars needed to realise Serbia's participation in these missions this current year, of which 461m is waste at the defence ministry. In the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, we received some data that are actually lower for 2012. We've been delivered information that 193 million dinars. Whatever the real situation is, it's obvious that these costs are increasing when the United Nations charges are taken into account and something we get in the equipment, that cost exists. This cost is increasing, and in this context, the serious economic crisis seems to me to be not negligible. Not a negligible team before being set up, I listened carefully to the promoter and his earlier doubts and the skepticism he brought about the peace missions and the participation of Serbia in them, the issue of purpose. I will not quote a draft decision dealing with the objectives of the Serbian Army. I will just point out that what is to be achieved is that, apart from participating in multinational UN operations, an important element of Serbia's foreign policy, Serbia is wanted to be treated as an equal partner in relations with EU member states and partnership for peace. I share the skepticism that the Secretary of Defense once had. I'm not sure that the best way to treat Serbia as an equal partner is to participate in the UN. It can contribute to some kind of credibility but nothing significant can change. You even mentioned a trip to Norway or contact with the Norwegians, where they praised us for our participation in peace operations. That's good, of course, but it doesn't change anything when it comes to serious Norwegian politics when it comes to KIM. It is like a parliamentary democracy to you – it should be present and it should not be expected that God knows what fundamental changes. A team before there's a logical problem in our participation in peace missions. I've already emphasized him and he's present. We can pretend he doesn't exist. We can pretend we're a state where everything works, where there's no secessionism, no separatist tendencies. Unfortunately, that's not the case. The logical problem is next. I think the international reputation of every country depends on how much it is able to implement order in their own home. And before we take part in the implementation, that is, the adoption or active participation in international security, international peace and the preservation of international security and international peace, it would be logical to do so in our own backyard. We are the state that, I must mention, which is not the authority of the minister present here, has allowed her territory controlled by monuments to terrorists. I'm referring to a monument that was erected in Preshev fighters, namely the UCK terrorists, i.e. UCPMB and that hasn't been removed yet. We are the state that allows the Achif Efendija board to stand in Novi Pazar and these are all things that are quite scandalous and shocking in themselves, which certainly do not contribute to Serbia's enjoyment in international contexts. These are all the things we believe should be involved in UN missions anyway. This participation may not need to be extended. You don't need to increase. Let me be very clear. Where, say, we have a company, the DSS wouldn't mind if there was just a platoon. I repeat, it should be in these kinds of relationships. There's no need to overemphasise the importance. Between that skepticism of yours, Mr. Vukic, which you mentioned, and your current position which is extremely understandable, I understand both, I think there is some middle road that would be optimal for Serbia. In any case, we would have voted in favour of these decisions if we hadn't come to this second point, which for us from the DSS is extremely problematic, or unacceptable. We would vote that it is only the missions in which Serbia participates and which are conducted by the UN. However, there are other missions, which are EU-run missions. Here we come to something that is personally incomprehensible to me, which still has to be called the right name, which is an absurd situation that is almost bordering with some pathological state. For example, Serbia signed a framework agreement with the EU last year for the participation of our forces in its peacekeeping operations, and thus we have shown that we want to actively contribute to the implementation of a common foreign and security policy, namely the EU's common security defence policy. Under this common foreign and security policy, the EU directly endangers our security by sending a status biased mission to KIM within the framework of this policy, which supports the secession of KIM, which is part of the development of an independent Kosovo. That's one situation that's, to say the least, absurd. It's a fact, it's a finding, and we can't run from it. That's why we find our participation in these missions absolutely unacceptable. The question arises – why does this government intend to continue? It's something the previous government started. It seems to me that this government intends to continue on that path. What's more, according to some information I have, the Atalanta mission, our contingent within that mission will increase. It's a mission dealing with free navigation and the fight against piracy along the Somali coast, so the horns of Africa. We think it's unacceptable. We've already said that, and we'll do it again in January and February when we talk about it all. Serbia has no reason to support the EU's policy within which Serbia itself is being threatened. What's the reason for that? Let me just quote these objectives from the draft decision where it is said - by hiring members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations, and under the mandate of the EU, in the framework of a common security and defence policy, the Republic of Serbia would integrate into this important area of EU activity, which would have a favourable impact on the overall process of Serbia's European integration. We've reached this sacred cow of Serbian politics. So, the famous European integration of Serbia. Let's just put it aside. That could be interpreted as some kind of neutrality injury. It may be a bit of a tense interpretation, but the fact is that the EU does not play a significant role in the security segment at international level, that it does much in coordination with NATO, not to mention Berlin plus all the resources NATO makes available to the EU to launch its mission. That's not so important, we'll put it aside. It seems to me that in this commitment to European integration... Let's put it this way. I've listened very carefully to you, Mr. Minister, the last few times we've been able to talk. You once said we can't pay off pensions without the EU, but it's about as low as possible, if I'm a good interpreter, and you're going to correct me, on that parole of the previous authorities that the EU doesn't have an alternative. It seems to me that this steam is wrong, incorrect, and if it were true, it's so devastating for Serbia that we would have to invent that alternative. I'm going to list three reasons I think, or the DSS, that's what I just said. First of all, I think it is clear to everyone and that it is no longer worth repeating here, I feel tired when I say it for the thousandth time, Serbia cannot become an EU member without recognising the secession of the southern province. It's the very logic of things. That's quite explicitly said at the very least. This is now under the terms of normalisation of relations, but it seems to me that it is clear to everyone, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I think it is clear to all of us in this home that Serbia cannot enter the EU without recognising the secession of KIM. That's why I don't feel like I have to go that way any further. Let's put the KIM problem aside. Let's just say he's gone, that everything is perfect, ideal, that Serbia has no separatist tendencies within its framework and that we have a healthy, stable state. Even in that assumption, it is not certain that the EU would have no alternative. I think we're 30 years late here. Someone in the discussion mentioned that we didn't understand in time the effects of the change, so with the end of the cold war and the fall of the Berlin Wall. It seems to me that Serbia's policy still doesn't understand the historical moment it's in. When I say we're 30 years late, you know that when Greece, Spain, Portugal came into the EU in the '80s, it made sense. They got some loans, they rescheduled their economic situation, and they had a certain period of strong economy. This is no longer possible in the EU today. The EU is experiencing a serious economic crisis, a serious institutional crisis. It is an opportunity, that anyone who deals seriously with the European problem will tell you, that over a few years, the EU will not look what it looks like today. (President: Mr. Jovanovic, please return to the topic. The European Union is not a topic of debate. I'll listen to you. I have quoted something in the decision itself and what is actually an explanation of why Serbia is sending its security forces to the European mission. It seems to me that it is directly bound, but I will respect your position. Allow me a few sentences and then I'll finish. Let's forget this second point that I mentioned and say that we want to have all the reasons for the world to join the EU, but there is that third problem. Gentlemen, there is every opportunity that the EU will not expand in the coming period. (President: No more about the EU. I will conclude, Mr. Chairman. If I can, Mr. Minister, you'll correct me if I paraphrase it wrong, or quote it, this will be more paraphrase, I think you said last time that you didn't want Serbia to be a supported person. That's a much more accurate statement and a more significant statement. That's the statement we all agree with here. It seems to me that whether we're going to be a supported person or not is up to us alone. There are examples of Greece, Spain and Portugal that show this greatly. It depends on our willingness to fight for a serious state. That fight must be comprehensive. So this struggle implies that fighting corruption, and I am telling you honestly – every honor at the will and personal courage shown, but believe it will not be of any importance if, with this fight, this country is not fighting for its borders, for its territory, for its people living in that territory. It's two sides of the same medal, either we're fighting for a serious state or we're not fighting for a serious state. To fight for a serious country, our European path must be interrupted. That is the reason, Mr. Chairman, why we at the DSS find it unacceptable that Serbia is sending its security forces to the EU-led missions. That's the connection to this subject. It's unacceptable for us. That is why we from the DSS will vote to confirm those agreements, but against these two decisions concerning Serbia's participation in peace operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8433	The word has the first Deputy Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8434	I'll try to answer that briefly, since I think we've had a similar discussion. With respect to your argument, I'd like to say a few things. It's not the EU for us sacred cows, nor do we have... I didn't understand... I really didn't understand you. [[Employee Srdjan Milivojevic throws out of place, but you can't hear it.]] (President: Please do not throw away, because this is how you defocus and interfere with the work of the Assembly. ) It is not the EU, nor do we have access to the EU, as is the sacred cow, nor is it forbidden to discuss bad parties, ugly parties or do I not know what the EU is talking about. I think it's crucial to be rational, to be reasonable, and to think about what it brings us, and what it means to us. The EU, as you said, is 22 of the 27 countries have recognised the independence of KIM. Is that a problem for us? It is a problem. When I was talking, I said, it's like, I'd say, a little bit derived from what I was talking about. Finally, if we were to end our relations with the EU in such a way and if we did not have the opportunity to continue this kind of cooperation, that kind of work, that kind of approach to the EU, I think it would be a threat to the economic survival of the country, not because I am irresponsible, not because I prefer Berlin, Brussels, Prague, Paris, London from Belgrade, Piroth, Sudotica, Kragujevac or any other city in Serbia. On the contrary, I prefer all these cities, although I don't mind visiting everyone else. That's because in the previous period, we've completely tied our economy, crippled, broken. We have tied our political system, and if you will, one thing that never seems to me to be slow, we share many values with the EU. Our political interests don't match 100% of the time. I'm not talking about having something or having no alternative, because I think only Serbia has no alternative. My question is -- excuse me, how and in what way and only if they would abolish their support, help themselves and if they told their banks and other world institutions -- there are no reprogrammes of obligations that Serbia has, so that we can reconcile them, from what and in what way? So I have an insight into the budget. We've been struggling over that budget, believe me, for about a month. We still haven't gotten some credit from some of the countries we've hoped for, and we have the best relationship with them. We wait for them and we get them. You heard the Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation who said they had the best possible relationship with this Government of the Republic of Serbia, that they never had such good relations with any government. We expect to promote these relationships, but I'm telling you it's not enough. It's not enough, people. It's not enough, we have such a budget deficit, we have such problems and so many problems that countries can't work. The easiest and most beautiful thing would be for me to do again what you say. That's probably what most people would like to hear. While I'm in this place, I can't. After that, sure, when I get out of the way, somebody else can talk whatever they want and whatever they want. I can't, not because it's not nice to hear it or, as someone said, that it wouldn't go in the electoral body. Yes, it would go best in the electoral body, which I do not respect for you and I am not saying that you are doing it, but I am telling you that I cannot because it would bring down the position of the Serbian government, we would collapse Serbia's position. That's my answer to that political part. Countless, literally countless examples I can give you, especially in the economic sphere, but also in every other sphere, how important this type of co-operation with the EU is to us. Someone's going to say that we're working together, but we don't have to do this or that. Well, you can't go to the EU without saying you won't cooperate in the field of security. I'm talking about a large number of members of our army. These are, people, two staff officers and three medical staff members. That's five people. It's a great honor to talk to you about five people here today, and it's about Operation EUAVFOR Atalanta. It is terribly important that the Serbian Parliament shows that kind of interest in the engagement of five of our people. These five of our people are a symbol of our co-operation with the EU, but there is no harm, no financial, no harm done. There we have an ever greater economic benefit than what you would say, how much is paid, because when you see how and how we've deployed these missing 360 million, you'll see that more than one third goes to pay. I mean, I understand every policy. I have a lot of understanding for your politics. It seems to me that you have not only heard from me, but from the members of the party I come from, and also from the members of the government that I represent here today, not a word of subjugation at your expense or at the expense of your party. On the contrary, we respect this policy, we respect everything, but this seems to be the only possible way to behave responsibly today in Serbia. Because, you know, someone was supposed to pay 2 days ago 4,000 dinars for the poorest pensioners. I'm asking you, do you think we really created this? Do you think that's what our economy really created? That's what I'm asking all the MPs, signifying my MPs, risking someone saying I'm acting like a king, MPs from the SNS, my MPs who support the government and all of you. Do you think we created it? We didn't. These people have to live. These people have created. Those pensioners created it, and someone spent it in the meantime and it was gone. It's our job today to enable them to get something, to have more consumption, to encourage our economy by that greater consumption. What are we gonna do about it? How do we do that? By selling European Bonds, we were able to secure it. Now we're expecting some new loans. We expect to finally confirm the 300m-euro loan from the Russian Federation. We expect from some other countries, I must tell you now, an even more favourable loan in the same amount, but Mr Dinkic will tell you about it. We expect an important visit in the next few days. So, at an interest rate that wouldn't go over 1.5%, at 20 years. We fight in every way possible. Are we doing it? Do people in Serbia live well, ideally? They don't live. We have the lowest income in the region. In one euro, we differ from the two countries that compete with us for the leader of the worst. To get from that worst to that, not to be a leader, because we won't be a leader soon, but to have some decent life and a decent framework in which the country can develop, we have a lot to do and a lot to change. In this regard, it is extremely important for us, not only to talk, not only to have economic co-operation, but that the EU wants to help us. We have 170m euros in financial resources that we get to fill the EU budget, people. Why don't we sometimes say that we didn't get it from anyone, it's free money, nobody gave it to us? Well, I'm not saying 170 million euros is more important than our borders. I will not say that 170m euros is more important than our people, but I will not say that 170m euros is irrelevant. I know a few reasons why this relationship makes sense to me. Now the question arises – you're right when you say what Eulex is doing, and now we're going to work with them, so maybe we'll do something like that to someone else? It's absurd that we do it with someone who does it against us. When we want to join the EU, we accept and co-operate with Eulex as well. You can't say -- I want to go to Europe, I want to get support, I want to get help, but I don't want to co-operate on legislation relating to criminal-legislative proceedings in a country that wants to become an EU member. It's not real. So, can we have some autonomous and indigenous solutions? We can, of course, but ultimately, they must be in line with EU legislation. I think it's good for this country, because it's arranged countries, because it's countries that have a democratic order from which we can learn a lot, especially about procedures and a lot to perfect. In that sense, there will soon be a Law on Public Procurement, which is in consultation with everyone, but that's our idea. It's not their idea, it's not their wish and it's not their warrant. That's what we were talking about, if you remember, in the election campaign. It'll be a good law that you'll be able to fix. Everyone looked at him somewhere, because it's about system law, and it's about fighting corruption, but it's also about saving material resources. Let's slowly start putting the ground on our feet. One day, if we're much more economically powerful, if we're a much more serious country, in every sense, or state, as you emphasized, which we all want in the National Assembly, then we can think differently. You might say - I like this better, I like this less. But we're not in that position today, and I'm sorry to have to say that. The money we spend, to a certain extent, we haven't earned it. We spend a lot more than we make every year. It is not by chance a budget deficit of this size, nor the salaries of the MPs, that I am not talking about you and your work and your effort, which is greater perhaps than some of the other authorities of the administration, not to compare it with the authorities at all. Did we make that? How many factories did that get us, so we can pay for it? It mostly came from the funds we received from the new assignments. Now I ask you, who will give us the chance to reprogramme? Who's going to give us a chance to just exist for three to four years and make the economy right? Not if they don't see our need and our desire to approach Europe in this way. I'm very sorry, but usually when people come to the National Assembly they think – I have a majority, I go home, I don't care what happens or how it happens. I would very much like to and, please, of course, I don't think that I'm going to change your decision to think about it, and for the next time, for this plan of ours for January, I'm going to make an additional argument for you. Please just think one more time, because I'm sure this is good for the country, and I know you think we wouldn't be working against our country in any way. Having my ideas, having my own agenda, having my own plans, I promise you that for January of the month, when we come to you, I will come with further arguments and with all the bills, to see bilateral agreements. When we talk about it, directly on the subject, not politically but in this security-defense, it was recently here that Giampalo Di Paolo, Minister of Defence of the Republic of Italy. The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Italy who had very good relations with the previous minister said one thing, it seems to me for the first time, not because one minister is better than the other or anything, but because opportunities have changed. That's why it was easier for me in the U.S. to get to a higher level of conversation than it was before, both in the Russian Federation and in many other places in the world. The climate has changed, Serbia is experienced in a different way. Giampalo Di Paolo told me – tell me what you want, tell me what you need in international, above all in our military-economic co-operation. We've had good, excellent military-military, military-intelligence, every kind of co-operation. For the first time, say what you want in military-economic co-operation. It's because of five of our members in Operation Atalanta. Those people in Operation Atalanta are brave, professional, but these people are satisfied. These people are satisfied, these people aren't forced. These are, of course, volunteers, professionals, but these people are satisfied with their incomes and their engagements and all that they bring to Serbia. I apologize for making this up, but it's out of respect for your political views and for everything you've said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8435	Thank you. Replica, MP Milos Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8436	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll try to be brief and start from this least important piece, so, Atalanta, you mentioned the number of our members participating in this peace operation. For us, it is a principled question whether one member, five or 50, we are against Serbia's participation in EU-run peace operations. Now what's more important. I'm sure you know that and that no one in the DSS thinks that you have any evil intentions, on the contrary, I've said something here that I don't normally have a chance to speak or have a habit of being that kind of, conditionalally flattering. I don't flatter anyone, and neither do you. But your fight against corruption, sometimes some things need to be acknowledged, requires both strong will and personal courage, because it's not a little naive thing and we don't have a problem saying it. When we say that by definition means that we certainly don't believe that you have evil intentions, I certainly believe that you want what's best for this country and for this people. This is about one difference in how to get to the best. You think what you just said is our view that the way to the EU does not provide that benefit for either the state or the people. Now that we say - we will not become a full member of the EU, it does not mean that we stop any economic co-operation. On the contrary, if we can speed it up, we will speed it up. I accept the argument that if we say the EU - we are not going towards full membership, that there will probably be consequences on the economic agenda, but to be honest with you, and that is the DSS assessment that this economic co-operation will stop, there will be some forms. Is that going to make things easier? Probably not. Will it make it harder? Probably will. All when it comes to, add and subtract, we think it is said – not – to full EU membership much more effective, more meaningful, but to continue that path. So it's really a political assessment. We think that ours is true and we have an argument for such a thing, you're presenting this one of yours, but I repeat, believe us, we have no doubt in your good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8437	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Konstantin Samofalov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8438	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, we in the Democratic Party consider the agreements on co-operation in the area of defence as well as the proposal for a decision on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside our country's borders to be very important. The role of the opposition is to criticise all that is not good, all that the government does not do well, and we will always do so. On the other hand, I think it is necessary that we build a different parliamentary culture that is far more constructive than it was in the past and that we have the responsibility as an opposition to support what we consider significant. There have been MPs in the past who are now in the ruling coalition, there were once oppositions who did not support these decisions, and even in the mandate of the last government in which DS played a decisive role, but it is very important that today we can testify that there is still a consensus that these are topics that do not go around party differences. I really welcome that. I would refer briefly to MPs from one of the smaller members of the ruling NS coalition, who explain that it is good that today those who were against participation in peacekeeping missions are now changing that decision and are now in favour of these decisions. Gentlemen from the NS, as I recall, never attended the meetings of the Assembly in which these decisions were voted, never provided support for initiatives coming from the past government and never spoke of it in a positive way. Since we've all known each other before and since the citizens know us from before, that thing needs to be made clear, there's too much of this demagogy. I think we should show one little higher level of respect for each other, not try to deceive ourselves. In the mandate of the last Serbian government, some 50 defence co-operation agreements, from Indonesia to the east, have been signed via Namibia in South Africa, Norway in the north and finally to an agreement that is very important to Serbia and has been talked about a lot in the past, an agreement with the US National Guard in the West. I especially want to highlight the agreements we have reached with most of our neighbours except Albania, with all neighbours in the Western Balkans area. These agreements are important because we have a difficult legacy of the past in these areas, the legacy of civil wars. Today we have signed agreements with countries like Croatia, we were warring sides. The policy of reconciliation, the stabilisation of the region has always remained an absolute priority for the DS as a party of the social-democratic orientation. Of the agreements on the agenda today, most are signed in the previous term and it is very good that we have continuity when it comes to security and defence policy. No serious state seems to be causing too many fractures in this area. I'd like to draw a deal with Brazil first of all, which is one of the largest countries in the world. It is known that countries so-called BRICKs belonging to Brazil, Russia, India and China are rapidly developing economically. It is very useful for us, as a small country, to cultivate the best possible economic relations with them. The very fact that the defence minister of Brazil, I think in 2010, visited our country for the first time in history, that in Belgrade the Brazilian flag and played their anthem was viorating enough to support the fact that this country, a large state, is interested in working with us and signing this agreement and I hope that its confirmation in the Assembly, I absolutely support it. We have agreements with Indonesia and Angola. They're significant, and we talked about some of them, with military-military aspects, but mostly military-economic co-operation. From the point of view of what brings first and foremost benefits to our citizens. With Indonesia, we've already made some co-operation, and yet I think we can do even more. As for Angola, you too told ministers about this, previous Minister Sutanovac, that these agreements allow for continued co-operation in the area of the construction industry, and it is the construction of a military hospital. That's very important to us. In the last five years in any case, and that's actually what we're talking about when we're talking about these agreements, we're doing a record exporting of our dedicated defence industry. This is how our citizens are employed in parts of the country where there is not much work and the adoption of these agreements is a presumption of continuing the realization of these jobs and we support it as much as possible. The second part of today's debate concerns the involvement of our army and police in multinational operations. It is clear that the more active engagement of the Republic of Serbia in this area raises our country's reputation. We cannot expect others to understand our problems unless we are ready to share the burden of responsibility with them. Serbia has a bright tradition, we have talked about it many times, participation in peace missions. We had once the largest contingents as former Yugoslavia in many operations in the past and now this tendency to get back on that path, perhaps not in that capacity, but in any case to try to get more serious involved is very important. Cyprus is one of the positive examples, we decided last year to guide the Serbian military leadership, I don't think we've had a platoon since 1988 and 1989, since the Iranian-Iraq crisis, but operations in Lebanon, probably for us the most important and serious operation of the very late 1980s, where our soldiers will have the opportunity to protect our country's interests and on the other hand under the Serbian flag, to stabilise opportunities in some remote areas, all of this affects us, even though we are once burdened with our own problems, which is perfectly normal, because in Serbia, as in the entire Western Balkans region, lives hard, but these crises that happen hundreds of miles away, can be poured into these areas, because security is indivisible. When you talk about terrorism, there are simply no limits, the states have to cooperate between themselves. When you talk about organized crime, if you don't have co-operation, if you don't show solidarity with your partners and friends, you can have a lot of problems yourself. A DSS colleague mentioned the EU story. I don't think we should talk here about the the thesis that Europe has no alternative, rather I would say that the idea of European Serbia is exactly an alternative to what you, with deep respect for me, respect that we have different attitudes and a European idea is an alternative to your views that I consider devastating to Serbia. When you say I need you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8439	I'm just asking you not to speak to other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8440	When it comes to making up an alternative, I have to say that security can't be invented, the interests of the state can't be invented, they have to think deeply. Some MPs would probably like us to go to the African Union, and I can understand that attitude, however, geography is an exact science, Serbia belongs to Europe, Serbia will become an EU member and it is very good that we show an interest in taking responsibility for the EU's common security and defence policy, and of that for our citizens, and that it can be very useful. It is necessary to underline once again that boys and girls who apply for voluntary service of the army, who apply to go into multinational operations, apply for it quite voluntarily, and above all, because of the fact that they represent our country in the best possible way, our borders, that they should always be given recognition for it. The governments, of course, change, we in Serbia need to learn, nothing is the end of the world, the state always remains. The army is one of its pillars and the army should always be supported, because it can be a significant foreign-political weapon for our country and can promote this country better than many other elements of our society. The Serbian Army's professionalisation process, which is very important, was completed somewhere earlier last year. He has circled a comprehensive process of reforming our defence system that has certainly brought our military closer to the standard that exists in the most modern countries in the world. The professional army is one of the basic assumptions for more serious engagement with multinational operations. I was personally pleased to spend three months in the barracks last year as a member of the first generation of Serbian Army volunteers in Valjevo and to see how this training is now conducted according to new standards. It is a great honor to sit in the congregation with people who used to be high officers, and there is Mr. Arsenovic, who was a general. I therefore appeal to other MPs, the younger MPs in this House for up to 30 years, that perhaps they too decide to spend three months in these barracks, because I think they can gain valuable experience that can help them, and can also help us to understand better this very important system of defense. I would just briefly refer to the story of the organisation – a collective security agreement. I wouldn't talk too much about it, it's said enough, I wouldn't even get in the middle of this. Serbia should have dialogue with different organisations, but I think it was more appropriate to first make a decision to form a permanent delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly, a common and security defence policy of the EU, because Serbia is a candidate for EU membership and has made certain commitments, thus showing its commitment to the European idea, and then to see if we might take part in some organisations. Personally, I do not see too much sense in some official capacity to involve ourselves in the work of any parliamentary assembly that has nothing to do with our space geographically. It is my personal position, no matter what the organization is called and which countries are in that organization, I would not humiliate the states of the ODKB, why, because Kazakhstan is one big country of 20 million people, three times bigger than our country, and I think we should be real, but simply, first of all, we need to focus on the space where we live. Finally, in the budget for this year, we envisioned in the work concerning the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, that MPs of the Serbian Parliament do not have to leave the opposition, as far as I'm concerned, can from the authorities, I don't think it's too important, to visit however those soldiers who function in very difficult conditions and defend our country's interests. It doesn't have to be a lot of money to separate themselves, they can sleep in barracks, it can last a day or two, but I think since the Assembly still approves participation in these operations, that they are funded, in addition to the resources from the UN and our budget, that it is provided by our tax citizens, that it is our responsibility as an MP to still make sure that all of this works and that we pass it on to our citizens with an even stronger attitude and belief that it is very useful for each of us. Anyway, we'll vote as DS for the adoption of these agreements. They represent the continuity of state policy, responsible policies, where we present Serbia as one serious country that is ready to co-operate with others, which assumes its obligations as the founder of the UN as a candidate for EU membership, and I think this should be adopted without a single vote against, because this issue exceeds party differences.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8441	Replica, Milos Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8442	I've really never heard of anyone on Serbia's political scene wanting Serbia to become a member of an African unity organisation or some African union. That's totally relevant, especially something like that you couldn't hear from the president of the DSS. What we're saying is quite simple and sometimes I'm surprised that I've never heard a serious argument against it. So, the European path will cost Serbia a lot, so much will be a high price that it is inadmissible and we can argue that in a thousand ways, and then I said more stylishly everything, and if we didn't have an alternative, we would have to invent it because our trip to Europe will be extremely devastating. One more thing, I really don't know how many people the EU is dealing with here, and how many people know the EU, I repeat, I'm surprised that we're having this debate in 2012, because in the '80s, you'd understand something else. Now that I repeat, the EU is in a serious economic and institutional crisis, I am surprised to see someone blinded by yellow stars and thinking that Serbia is the only future in the EU. It's just amazing. One more thing, believe me, the EU or not, Greece, Spain and Portugal are where they are. Germany, even if it were not in the EU, would still be a strong, economic, or strong economic country, and there is no dilemma. Why am I saying that? If any alliance can help you, excellent, but it essentially comes down to that – use and in its beaks. Our future depends solely on ourselves, whether this interruption of the European path can be painful at first – perhaps, believe me, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, will be saved for Serbia, everything else is a continuation of agony, a continuation of the path at the end of which Serbia will remain an empty shell despite its small territory, a few million people who will be a cheap workforce. It's not a vision of Serbia that the DSS has, I think it's quite simple and simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8443	The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8444	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that I am sharing the view that this debate on the clearly useful proposals for an agreement and decisions for our country has been extended and your impatience, however, the discussion of individual MPs, in particular Mrs. Natasa Micic, from the realization that this matter is slightly more understood than it, has encouraged me to say a few words about the proposal for these decisions and agreements. It is true that we are going out with a proposal for a decision to hire members of the Serbian Army in peace operations, at the end of the year, not the beginning of the year. It is true that we are adopting a plan at the end of the current, not at the beginning of the year. It is true that this is not appropriate to any institution, and at least to the defence ministry and the Serbian Army. We heard the explanation of the current defence minister and the former defence minister, and it can simply be concluded that the previous government, on the proposal of the previous defence minister, did not respond, no such decision was made. We are now discussing and I believe that we will adopt, because it would be declassified not to adopt something we've already done all year. You know that by the decisions of this Assembly, 222 members of the Serbian Army and the MUP, the decision has been made to engage in peace operations. By 2012, the total number was employed in peacekeeping operations, 66 members of the military and 11 members of the MUP. In 2012, the number of military personnel was increased by 41 persons, so we currently have about 107 members of the military and 15 members of the MUP in peace operations. You will clearly see the difference between decisions on an approved number of members of the Serbian Army's engagement in peacekeeping operations and currently engaged, which says that the Ministry of Defence is very sensitive and carefully approaching this issue and that we are not engaged in that scope, which this Assembly approved, nor is the number of persons engaged from the Ministry of Defence. I am pleased that according to the structure of engagement, currently in international peace operations, that the Ministry of Defence and the government as a whole is making sure that the engagement of members of our military and the MUP, in many crisis areas, does not endanger the country's security. And with that, if we were to run an analysis, where our troops are now engaged, in which peace operations, we would conclude that the most risky, perhaps in Lebanon. There we increased a platoon within the Spanish contingent and we increased something, as I am informed of my engagement in Cyprus. When it comes to funding, 461.4 million dinars were planned for 2012, out of which, as a means of return, the UN peace operation department, should have paid at the expense of the government of the Republic of Serbia 107 million dinars, if I'm not mistaken. I think those funds were fully secured by this plan, and I believe in the good work and spent through engagement, through peace operations. There's been a discussion here. What brings us the involvement of our army members in the peace operations? I'd like to talk about a dimension that no one has ever talked about before. In addition to strengthening our international credibility, and foreign-political potential, what members of the military and the MUP, through participation in international, peace operations on the agenda of learning training, education, science. They are not able through the modern military-school system in our country, an existing military-school system to learn. A great deal of knowledge and skill is gained through the involvement of contingents of other countries in the framework of the peace operation in question. It's something that's very useful for members of our army, because they're familiar with both new skills and new tactics and new weapons, new operating criteria and everything else they're unable to learn through our military-school system. An engagement within the framework, so-called "quick forces" for the EU's response, I would take advantage of the presence of the defence minister, to ask that the defence ministry and government in general come very carefully to this issue, because if, according to information provided by the Foreign Ministry's Defence and Home Affairs Committee, the Kosovo Protection Corps, which counts three thousand people, is slowly being transferred to Kosovo's armed forces, which will be far greater. If in this process of forming Kosovo's armed forces, some EU members, through training and instruction, help with Kosovo's protection, then we should very carefully consider the idea to engage within the framework of the European rapid intervention force and to make it compatible to the extent that they give up their intention to turn the Kosovo Protection Corps into Kosovo's armed forces. There have been questions here, as far as international agreements are concerned, they are very useful. Here I would like to apostrophe with Indonesia, about military co-operation, because, as I'm informed, there are broad opportunities for the employment of our dedicated industry. As far as I'm concerned, the plan is to open up a military delegation in Indonesia, so that this co-operation, and this is also about countries, as it is pointed out, which have so far not recognised Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. Not only is the possibility of selling our products of dedicated production, but I personally think through the exchange of intelligence, through the exchange of cadet students at military schools, all of this in general, first of all strengthens the reputation and credibility of our country, and on the other hand the strength and potential of our armed forces. As for this opening of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre, you know that this stems from the already ratified 2010 agreement and would not speak about the role of this international, or regional humanitarian centre, was in the disasters that hit us this year. What is important is that conditions are being created that within this Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre, there is an opportunity to form an ecological-regional centre, and I would say in some perspective and a regional-energy centre in this part of the Balkans. There was a question here about 450 abandoned military complexes, I would not say that so many figures, some of which were estranged during this government's time, with a wave in municipalities in which she was in power as a representative of the leading party in the government, the last government. You know that military immovableities were in the intelligence of the Department of Defense. A few years ago, it went to the Directorate for Property of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if I am mistaken, the representatives of the ministry will correct me. The problem occurred when military complexes were abandoned, when military immovableity moved into the jurisdiction of the Serbian Government's Property Directorate, which, in my view, even so far, when it came to alienating military complexes through Master One, two and three, did nothing to reduce the cost of providing abandoned military complexes, to improve from selling unnecessary military complexes, what was prescribed and drawn through defence policy, by providing three components, which is that the technological and such worrying technological lagging of our army, is being invested through equipment with modern military techniques, to resolve the housing of military members and third, that it seems to me, investing in improving the overall standard of military members. I would therefore ask for some initiative and effort from the Ministry of Defence towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate to finally disengage this Goldi knot, because we are simply witnesses to many of the infected, unremarkable, abandoned military barracks and other complexes in Serbia, for which the Ministry otherwise gives a modest portion of the budget for their security. When it comes to part of the discussion concerning the collective security organisation, I would ask that this parliament and those who are discussing the project, the collective security organisation, look at the project at least. It seems to me that in the key preambles of the project, one of the key preambles, the decision-making within the collective security organisation is guaranteed fullness in the decision, regardless of the economic, territorial and other power of the Member State. Is NATO decision-making equal to all members? Is the impact on decision-making equal? You'll agree it's not. Other provisions that may be interesting for us to consider are to guarantee the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the member states. Is Serbia facing separatism today? Yes, it is. Is she faced with numerous challenges, risks and threats? Yes, it is. We might be thinking about our participation to the extent that participation in the Partnership for Peace project is, at least in that part, because it seems to me that some solutions through this project are compatible with our national and state interests. The Serbian Progressive Party will certainly support the proposal of these two decisions and the military use plan in a voting day, as well as a proposal for an agreement with these countries in defence co-operation. I think they in general provide for the strengthening of our international credibility and support the government's efforts to stabilise the country economically through this military-economic co-operation planned under these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8445	Thank you. The People's MP Jelena Travar Miljević has been declared for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8446	Dear President, the Honorable First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, I would not spread this much, because I think one colleague said these are topics that should not create excessive discussion and disagreement. The very fact that we know that we are participating in seven multinational operations, i.e. in five UN missions and two EU missions, there is no dispute over this. What I would point out is that the interest in participating in missions is enormous. According to some of my findings, there's more than 10 members to sign up for one place. Also, when we talk about respecting the rule of law, which is one of the key to maintaining peace and security in the world and preventing the restoration of conflict, I cannot help but mention that this country belongs to a rare country that has a National Action Plan for the Implementation of Resolution 1325. That's what I'm proud of, because there's an obvious will of the ministry and the minister to implement exactly that plan. I am proud that the creation of the plan itself came from the civil sector, that this parliament, or parliamentarians, was involved, too, who made a wish to do so. What I would like to stress is that this plan was done for the period 2010 to 2015, that it is currently being implemented by 37 countries and six regional agencies in the world. I think it's a good thing we're among the 43 countries that even implement such acts. In addition, I would like to stress that we were among the first 20 countries to adopt it and that 21 countries are currently implementing it in the EU. Why am I talking about this? Because just two segments in the National Action Plan concern resolving conflict, post-conflict situations and greater participation in multinational operations and education and training of members of both the defence ministry, the Serbian Army, the MUP in the spirit of UN Security Council Resolution 1325. I think I am fully in the topic because today we are talking about participation in multinational operations and we are talking about bilateral agreements that need to improve the position of the Republic of Serbia itself when we talk about defence planning, military-economic and military-science co-operation, education, training and peace operations. What I think is commendable is that through participation in multinational operations, experience is gained in the work of multinational operations and commands, to certainly increase the country's reputation in the world. Until recently we were a country that is an importer of security, and participation in EU and UN missions we become a country of security exporter. By participating in EU and UN missions, we prove that we are a candidate for membership in terms of a common defence and security policy, that the Serbian Army, as well as the MUP, are becoming a credible security factor in the region, in Europe and in the world. What I would certainly, and not negligiblely, point out is an economic aspect that is certainly important to us as a state. Also, I would like to commend the fact that there are still records of women's participation in multinational operations, that there are at least two of them on the mission, as well as that members who are engaged on their request, that there are those who have gone twice, lately, if I'm not mistaken, and three times and that the number of registered candidates for enrolment at the Military Academy is growing every year. I think it would be good to increase women's participation in uniforms in leading positions and in public. From everything exposed from perhaps a slightly different aspect, compared to what was previously said, I think that these agreements should be supported, regardless of the time period when we talk about certain things. It's good when one minister and one ministry has a feeling, they can see what the benefits of this country are, and they can carry them out decisively. I thank you and therefore have no reason not to support the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8447	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8448	I'll be brief. I'll thank you in the end. In the end, I'll have something for Mr. Stojanovic about military property to answer. I want to give you one piece of information. I was pleasantly surprised, too, and then we set out to further increase women's members in the Serbian Army. By the way, I met in Cyprus and I saw that the Ministry of the Interior also had this practice of sending women. I want to tell all the people in Serbia that today we have a colonel who is a woman. I think he'll soon be with the highest rank. We have five colonels who are ladies. So we have a total of 104 officers who are ladies and hopefully that number will increase. I have to say that we are in little of what the leaders in the region are, but in this we are the leader in the region and that is the kind of reform we make the fastest way. I believe that in the years to come we will have the highest number of women who will be in command. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8449	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8450	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say that even in previous years when there was a debate in the National Assembly on laws or agreements in the field of the military, there has always been a responsible and serious debate. Very rarely, we could be able to get some questions, which, for daily political reasons, are often inserted into some subjects. Usually when we discuss the military, security, and at all the role of the military in our country, it was spoken seriously and responsibly. In that sense, I can say that today's debate is just the same. Our MP group and our authorised representative have said to the greatest extent our views. I will touch on a few topics that may shed light on certain aspects of this attitude, because it is very important that in one such atmosphere, where there is a large number of those who participated, start and from the minister himself, know matter very well, that we simply try to remove all the misunderstandings that exist through the release of our own political views. Mr. Minister, what I want to say at the beginning is that our parliamentary group is seeing in the new policy of the Ministry of Defence and Discontinity and Continuity. I want to say our views on one and another aspect of politics, by completely welcoming us, to explain what discontinuity is about. As for continuity, he, in our opinion, had both good and bad sides. Continuity in some parts of the previous ministry is good, and in some segments we find it not good. I will certainly try this conversation with you, to point it out. I must say, on the continuity that for the first time since 2007, when a decision on military neutrality was made in the National Assembly, Serbia is said to be a military neutral state, which is not said in a way that would challenge it. In this sense, our party and the parliamentary group absolutely support the government's and the ministry's commitment to military neutrality. It's not just the words that remain, and I want to point out that some of the things that have been done in the past few months by the ministry have shown that this ministry wants to balance in security policy and to preserve military neutrality. I said this because over the past years, in the debates here, all the different things were to be heard that should disqualify that congregation declaration. From a sentence of some kind to the fact that we didn't respect many resolutions, so we don't have to go there, to the fact that it's a dead letter on paper. We think it is very important that every time you come to the National Assembly, you repeat it so that the public of Serbia and the international public know that Serbia respects its resolutions. What was our main criticism of the previous policy was that, as we said it was bad that the EU had no alternative, we had the impression that in security policy there was a policy that NATO had no alternative. All segments related to deepening co-operation within the framework of the Partnership for Peace, to avoid co-operation with other international organisations, said that it was only a matter of time before Serbia, by reaching certain standards, through interoperability, through participation in some NATO military missions, would become a full member. The decisions to deepen Serbia's military-economic co-operation with the Russian Federation, which you have agreed with the vice-president of the Russian government, Mr. Rogozin, the decision of the parliamentary majority supported by the DSS, that Serbia becomes an observer in the organisation of collective security agreements, a decision to form a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre, all that seemed to establish one balance, that Serbia co-operates with all international organisations, with other states and military alliances, without participating as a full member of them, is something that we support. We think it's a good trip and we believe he'll continue. Why? Because, in addition to co-operation with the Partnership for Peace, Serbia has certainly been given the opportunity to apply certain quality standards that exist within the armies of individual NATO pacts, strengthening its capacity and strengthening its security. Co-operation with countries that are within the collective security organisation can also teach a lot to apply certain standards, which have proved to be good there. Especially in those segments they highlight, such as the fight against drug trafficking, illegal migration, etc. I think the adoption of everything that's best than most countries and military alliances is something that we can support and, in that sense, our parliamentary group supports that kind of commitment. What we have highlighted here as a problem and we remain to this end is co-operation with the EU in a security domain. Not only because we do not want to consider standards and what the EU achieves in the security domain, but because this common battle includes not only security policy, but also foreign policy. You said in your discussion with Mr Jovanovic that these two things are inseparable, but the biggest problem and the biggest issue of our question is - to what extent this foreign policy affects our security policy and how much of this policy, which we want to be a member of the government's decision, and thus the defence policy, affects our security and produces problems within Serbia. It is not necessary to repeat that Minister Dacic, and then Minister Vuk Jeremic signed two agreements with the EU's High Representative, concerning the protection of the secrecy of security information, and the other concerns our involvement in civil and military missions. We as a parliamentary group have criticised it very sharply here. The question that emerged after which we did not get an answer, and much of it has been said, is about domains and forms of participation in this policy. It would be good if you could give us some information about it. There was a lot of talk last year about what happened last year. a multicity combat group. Serbia has been invited by the EU to participate in a multi-city combat group that would be Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and that is one, in our opinion, a very problematic aspect. I don't know if Serbia has made that decision, it would be good to know something about it. As Ambassador Stojanovic said, it should also be explored that certain segments of that policy participate in Kosovo's training of the Protection Corps and participate, besides NATO's pact which explicitly does so, to participate in the creation of so-called. Kosovo military. It's very important to us, because we in no form, no operations within these combat groups would want us to participate. We're not against it, but we'd like to hear the Ministry's position. As for the other agreements, the continuity we support is the expansion and continuation of the conclusion of the agreement with as many countries in the area of defence as possible. It's something that's absolutely useful to us. We consider it useful, we consider it important, that our dedicated industry can contribute to strengthening the military, final and budgeting which would tomorrow go to raising our material capacities and our armies and we support it. What's the theme that's been going on here, too, is to bring reform. In addition to the fact that there were budgetary constraints, I can say that our parliamentary group also supported every effort to expand the defence budget in the term of the previous minister. I believe that from the position you have as First Deputy Prime Minister, you will do it because all the problems, and you are in conversation with Rogozino, who is referring to our aviation, all the problems have been highlighted. In addition to all economic problems, with all due respect, we must also take care of our safety. You as a minister must point out to the citizens in which our army is in trouble, especially our equipment. To try to expand that budget. It is, with all due respect to other needs, we cannot wait in such an unstable area and environment as the Balkans and the Balkan island, our army to this extent unprepared. That's very important. Money is very important in this case, and every form of this military co-operation that you are now trying to start in other countries is something that we are going to support. When it comes to whether Serbia should be an observer within the framework of security, which has been a lot of controversy, I ask colleagues to criticise that they are not underestimating the organisation at all. Not at all. It is a serious organisation with clear rules, with a very well-organised structure of bodies that has, above all, an organisation that explicitly stresses in all its acts support for territorial integrity and sovereignty. To underline once again, Serbia will not be a member, as it should not be a member of the NATO Pact either. He'll be an observer, adopting all the necessary standards and qualities that can come from that military alliance. I would like to express my support for the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation. Here is Mr. Maric who is leaving, but he has also made a great contribution and effort in the previous period to address the humanitarian situation in Serbia, as defined by the authorities and the way of funding. That's something we think is good. Openness to co-operate with third countries is something that can contribute, as is often said here, to common, indivisible security. In any case, humanitarian disasters are something that is indivisible and that we all share together and no state can be isolated there. This is the continuation of a good co-operation that was started with current Minister Soygu, from previous ministers, Dragan Jocic, and then Minister Dacic, well, here we are in this government. We believe that this is the highlight of a good co-operation that Serbia will certainly benefit greatly from. Mr. Minister, we support the discontinuity this ministry is doing, we support the commitment to military neutrality, to get out of what it was that NATO has no alternative, but we cannot support the government's commitment to follow EU policy in the framework of security policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8451	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8452	Dear President, Mr. Vukicu, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, esteeming the importance of our soldiers' participation in multinational operations, in terms of raising the reputation of the state, strengthening friendly relations, perfecting our army and all that we have heard in the broad argument in the course of the debate, I would like to say that we Socialists will support decisions on the participation of multinational operations in 2012, as well as decisions on co-operation in the area of defence with the governments of the Republic of Greece, the Federal Republic of Brazil, the Republic of Indonesia, the Republic of Angola, as well as the Agreement on the mutual protection of classified information with the Government of the Slovak Republic. It is understandable that during the debate, we had an accent on these decisions and therefore I would really like to look more closely at the proposal for an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment of a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis. With this in mind, I will present certain experiences, dilemmas, when it comes to emergency situations and state reactions in situations of humanitarian disaster. I want to strongly support the establishment and work of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre, which will be an intergovernmental humanitarian non-profit organisation. In that sense, I personally see this kind of agreement as a kind of continuity in the work of the MUP, headed by Mr. Dacic, above all in the design of a precise organisation of jurisdiction and activities in cases of emergency situations, which you will agree, this-what one trail is very important in the first hours of possible disasters. Countless evidence is for that. When I say continuity, I want to say that we have had the opportunity to discuss in the previous session the Emergency Law, the Fire Protection Act, which is certainly proof that the MUP has dealt in one serious way with this matter, because this matter has also been represented by a legal proposal from the late '70s and 80s, and it certainly was not in agreement with today's time and today's possibilities of our country. We also had a proposal for a single agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Montenegro on co-operation in protecting against natural and other disasters. It's all evidence that our government, our state, the resolute ministry has truly understood and it's defined that there's no room for any kind of improvisation in these situations. On the contrary, these are emergency situations where people's lives are threatened and there is no price at all, and many material goods are exposed to destruction and indeed, every invested dinar in this area is returned to many times. Furthermore, when it comes to this topic, one of the intentions of this Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre is, above all, defined in Article 5, prevention, and as the esteemed first vice president said, winding down emergency situations, including fire extinguishing and providing other humanitarian assistance to the population. But I think this first thing, prevention, is very important, because we're sometimes prone to forgetting. We are not prepared to learn certain lessons from what we have as a state and as residents of this country. We're always dealing with the consequences. With this in mind, I think that this provision that says that one of the first tasks of this centre - prevention, too, is very important and that in this sense we should focus on these activities. On the other hand, when it comes to this center, it's already been about that, and we've had a chance to see the concrete results of that center. They were already seen in 2012 in the early years of the great cold and later the great fires that were in Southeast Europe. Of course, without an airplane and helicopter reaction from a friendly Russian Federation in those inaccessible areas, there was no reaction. These are already some concrete results, indications of the future engagement of the Niš centre. It is a good intention and the idea that the centre in Nis will be some kind of reception centre, where it will be able to react quickly and slightly, because it is the basis of emergency situations, when they are already happening, and that there will be about 35 specialists in the centre, for starters, it is evidence that they will have full capacity to prepare and coordinate certain activities. What this agreement and co-operation may yet conclude, and I think it is a very important provision, and it has already been confirmed, as we had the opportunity to hear, at the Ministerial Conference of Emergency Ministers, held in Belgrade in 2010, so we had the honour, which practically paved the way or route of regional co-operation, when it comes to emergency situations. I think it's very important. I would like to present a few specific data and confirm this thesis, first of all with the experience of the municipalities of the city of Zitiste and January 2005, when it comes to floods. It is known that we in Vojvodina, fortunately, are not exposed to any other elemental disasters, except for the most common floods, because the Vojvodina territory located at the bottom of the plume in which many waters from Central Europe flow. But when it comes to these floods, we had them in 1966, 2000 and 2005. It's important to say that they were almost based on the same scenarios. This means that we practically had the water we were getting from the neighbouring country of Romania, because our territory is downriver and in this way all three floods were going along that scenario. This suggests that preparations for the defence scenario in Vojvodina and for this territory are not possible without interstate co-operation, in this case with Romania, in particular in terms of methods of co-ordinated defence, but also in coordination around some other activities, when it comes to water, therefore, and water quality, water sampling, which, I have information, at one point and stopped, which I think is very important to do, because those interstate flows need to be coordinated and when it comes to water use in order to do so in a quality way. There is something left in this sense that the state of Serbia needs to prepare for some future scenarios. We had a similar scenario, we all remember it well, a year or two ago, if I'm not mistaken, when we had an emergency so-called. The red mud, when the river Tissom moved from the neighbouring country of Hungary. Here, just through these two examples, I think it's enough to picture how necessary it is for this kind of regional co-operation to develop in the fullest sense of that word and in this way to prevent many humanitarian or elemental disasters. Let me remind you, in particular, we had over 60 broken houses in Međa and so many more for recovery, about 3,000 hectares of agricultural land flooded, and somewhere around 113 million was damage. At that time, we were threatened with 12 other settlements in the Central Banat County and some 55,000 hectares of surface area. Not to say that indirect damage from these flooded areas, which for several years in advance were completely unusable and did not yields that could be expected, that in full capacity and in full terms this agricultural area was processed. What I want to say is, this proposal for an agreement can conclude that certain joint programmes and projects are being envisaged, and I mean education and training, above all, and our experts and our people who will be engaged in emergency situations. I think it's very important. I personally had a few situations where people didn't know how to act and in the best way possible to react. I expect this kind of initiative and exchange of experiences with our friends from the Russian Federation to raise to one of the highest possible levels. And here I have a review of what happened when these floods happened. What I'm trying to say is that we have enough experts to take advantage of. I hope that in this whole story, and in particular, with us, the man who was responsible for the defense and did enough to make these damages as little as possible, say, Nikola Bulgarian, retired engineer. In gratitude, the citizens gave him the title of honorary citizen. I think in this whole context, I expect these experiences to be exploited and upgraded with our friends from the Russian Federation. Appreciateing everything that I think represents this center, and above all, that it will contribute to prevention, in some of the concrete results that we have seen, regional co-operation, including joint projects. What I see as a continuation of development is an extremely friendly collaboration with the Russian Federation, which we are really interested in. I want to support this agreement and I hope that the MUP headed by Mr. Ivica Dacic will contribute to making the citizens of the Republic of Serbia safer in the coming period, but also in the opportunity to help other countries as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8453	Mr. Samofalov isn't here. The word is made by MP Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8454	Mr. President, the respected ministers, the guests who came from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defense, I find it very interesting that I came into the situation that I don't have to praise and write to the Panigiric Minister, since all the representatives and oppositions and positions have done it, and that's good, and it shows that you're doing well, doing your job in the right way, which we certainly welcome. What I was about to say, and I'm really going to try to cut short because a lot of things are mentioned, are some aspects that are not sufficiently mentioned when it comes to peace missions and agreements, as well as a mutual protection agreement, which, as far as I've seen, no one has mentioned. As far as peacekeeping missions are concerned, I really think it's very good that continuity continues in this direction, so that there is no consequence of an international plan that cannot be small. That's what this government has declared, that kind of continuity and the creation of credible partners is important in this segment as well. All financial resources, as I understand it, are provided through the Ministry of Defence budget. My personal opinion is that the Ministry of Defence's budget should be even bigger in the future, because investing in security, which is an indivisible category, is not just some expense, against, it's an investment in confidence, that the moment something bad happens, and unfortunately, it can always happen, we don't even have cantopic eternal peace, we don't have a perfect situation ecological, we don't even have a lack of terrorism, so these are all real dangers. Therefore, it is an investment in confidence that when something bad happens, citizens can expect real intervention, they can expect their safety to be protected in the best possible way. As for the peace missions themselves, all the peace operations involving members of the Serbian Army have been established, and no one has mentioned the legal provisions, above all, in the Law on the Serbian Army and the Law on the Participation of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, but, as I understand it, and the strategic provisions of the Republic of Serbia to engage the defence forces in the task of preserving peace. Based on the UN proposal, this year we heard that it was started and tied to the EU within the framework of a common security and defence policy. This kind of discussion that has taken place here, whether it is in any way jeopardizing our declared military neutrality, I think it is really pointless in the situation where Serbia today and as a small country of limited capacity, we should have not only permanent partners, because our permanent partners and strategic partners can often be usurpers, but rather have a "shifting patent" form, a variable form of alliance that needs to bring us what's best. Therefore, we are neither against the EU nor against the Shanghai co-operation organisation. We're a little further away from the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation, but any kind of participation and active access to Serbia, I don't see that anyone can be hurt and I don't see a good enough argument about it. As far as the mission is concerned, I'd just like to mention two more specific things. Indeed, the minister spoke of this, that the Serbian Army is participating in Cyprus as part of the Hungarian-Slovenian contingent, and in that sense another reason is important why a secret data protection agreement with the Slovak Republic is important. As far as the Lebanon mission is concerned, as far as I've seen it, it's actually increased the participation of staff officers. I have asked here, not to be an expert, but to ask myself how important it is for the security situation to be properly assessed, to assess the risk more correctly, how important it is for staff officers to participate in these missions, especially in Lebanon and Congo, which are the most securely questionable, i.e. the possibility of escalating, and we hope that this will not happen in the near future. For the first time in the context of this headquarters element in Lebanon, I asked around, and we have a national intelligence cell, which participates in a security-intelligence assessment in the area of surgery, which means that our elders, as I mentioned, can gain extraordinary experience in risk assessment. I think that's very important. What no one has mentioned, too, is that Serbia today has no real capacity to participate independently with the entire contingent. As a result, either members or units of different rankings in other countries are involved. Independent participation, of course, requires additional financial resources, from transport to full logistics support in the zone and should be taken into account when sending one unit, while at the same time due to the principle of rotation, prepare two more units of the same rank, which must be fully dressed and equipped as an engaged unit. These are things that may not be so important to the public, but we still need to know that these are the reasons why it is very important for our units to participate in peacekeeping operations, but also for us to know that these limited participations in the contingents of other countries, we also respect our financial opportunities to the extent to which it is realistic today in Serbia. On the other hand, as for the three agreements and the confirmation of one memorandum of communication, which refers to the Republic of Indonesia, I have nothing special to say. The minister made an excellent note of what I was about to say, that these are four continents and three perhaps the largest countries on these continents, when I say the largest, I mean, first of all, as markets that can be interesting for our dedicated industry. As far as I know, the agreement with Indonesia is important for the reason that the Department of Defence delegation of Indonesia has been staying and visiting the capacities of the dedicated industry in our country. In that sense, there are already serious steps that should be finalised by signing a future agreement. Of course, other agreements are a confirmation of these agreements, creating conditions for expanding not only military-economic, technical and co-operation in the medical field. One more thing I would like to mention, and it seems to me that it is also not highlighted, is the importance of these agreements in the domain of the development of economic military diplomacy. Otherwise, today in the world and in theory and in practice, economic diplomacy is the driver of all networks of diplomatic representations. Everywhere in the world, the economy is a driver, and in this case we have the opportunity to seem in a lot of states to open up military delegations. Is that going through the VBA? Is this going through the International Co-operation Authority? I'm not sure, but certainly that trend exists and certainly we should work on it, because like I said, it's not a cost. It is an investment in the future, in this sense and security, and rich and significant economic benefits, and therefore these agreements are extremely important. I would like a few more sentences on this agreement with the Government of the Slovak Republic on the mutual protection of classified information and I simply think it is important to know what this is about now, given that the minister mentioned that this is one of the first bilateral agreements of the general type. It's a practice that's very present in the region. It's something that has one hyperproduction in the region, but there's no reason for hyperproduction. This is very important for the reason that the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia defines the basic definitions of national security policy as part of the common state policy. This means that security is indivisible, that we share security with both the region and Europe, and that, in that sense, the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation of the North-Atlantic Pact on the Security of Information and Codes of Conduct, as well as the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between Serbia and the EU on Security Procedures for the Exchange and Protection of Secret Information, has been adopted. Confirmation of the Agreement on the mutual protection of classified information will allow for the application of the Agreement in other areas. That is why this mutual protection of classified information is important, and this is co-operation in the area of defence of internal affairs and justice, and this will actually allow effective co-operation of state authorities aimed at preserving and improving national security. It is quite impossible to provide international bilateral and multilateral co-operation in the field of national security protection without mutual protection of public data. I would like to emphasise one thing, that I really hope that, in the future, the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration will, above all, make an effort to apply the law, but also to adopt sublegal acts which and how they are missing, which are prescribed to protect national data, since my personal opinion that this issue has been completely neglected in some previous period. As for the Slovak Republic, I would also mention, I also asked myself, that in the previous period it was signed and in this assembly confirmed the Agreement on Co-operation and mutual assistance in emergency situations, which we also talked about here. This makes the contract even more important and has its weight, since it will be able to engage security elements in emergency situations, crisis management, environmental protection, but also multinational operations and the fight against organised crime, and illegal migration or human trafficking. So, anything that cannot and should not be controversial for Serbia in relation to its security challenges, in relation to needs and safeguards, not only the consumption of security, as said in the theory, but also the production of safety. In order to be a stable regional partner, we need to produce security, participate in the way that is standardised in the world, and I absolutely believe that these are the laws that are on the agenda today, and that the minister has explained to the best of all the ministry colleagues, I expect that they can say something, too, if there is something we have not heard, and perhaps significant, in front of the SNS, I certainly express hope that this will be fully accepted in the National Assembly of the RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8455	Mr. Miletic Mihajlovic is not here. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8456	Dear Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. Secretary of Defense, gentlemen officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS will certainly support what's on the agenda today. I regret that Mr. Predrag Maric, and I wanted to thank Mr. Predrag Maric on behalf of all citizens who have received timely assistance from his sector in the long run. I ask you, Mr. Vukic, to thank those members of the Serbian Army who went out with tanks to move those vehicles stuck at Backa Topola, because if those boys hadn't gone out, you would have been waiting for the New Year and Christmas. It wouldn't help them to apologize to Mr. Mrkonjic. They wouldn't be warmer. Thank God this was done in good time. Please convey your gratitude to Mr Predrag Marić and all the soldiers and officers who participated in this. When we talk about this point, which is on the agenda today, certainly, that the DS supports all these agreements because it is of interest for us to be the leader of security not only in the Balkans and Southeast Europe. I don't want to talk long in any other context. I don't think it's appropriate for anyone to remind anyone of what he said earlier when it comes to this subject. In addition to Serbian citizens, this session is sometimes seen by some people who are from abroad. How can we build security facilities if we speak negatively and uglyly of both our army and our police or anyone else who is in charge of the military today, because today when we talk about the Serbian military and police, we need to know whoever is at the head of the army, whoever is at the head of the police, if we want to be leaders in the region, those people who sign these agreements and bring this policy together after leaving that function will not load this on their back and take it somewhere. That benefit remains the citizens of this country. It remains for the Republic of Serbia. That is why I strongly support you in the fight against corruption, because I think it is very important for Serbia to also be a leader in the fight against corruption. This strengthens our security and all other resources in full capacity. I have to tell you that when it comes to the agreements that our soldiers are going abroad, there are people who are criticizing it. There are also people in politics who don't understand the meaning of these agreements. It's not about whether we want to go to Europe or not to Europe through these agreements. The history of participation in the peace missions of our army is very long. People who participated in peace missions in Africa from 1956 to 1967 are quickly forgotten. Very quickly the name of Officer Lazar Mushiski was forgotten. The name of Colonel Branko Pavlovic has been forgotten. Slavko Jovic, who commanded blue helmets from 1988 to 1990 when the truce between Iraq and Iran was monitored, forgot. After October 5th, Serbia regained its participation in the full capacity peacekeeping operations. We are a member of the UN Organization and the participation of our soldiers and police officers in these peacekeeping missions raises and capacity security, educates our members who are there, meets new technologies, a new way of accessing crisis resolution and all contributes to efforts to make Serbia a leader in both the Balkans and Southeast Europe. Another reason why I won't quote what anyone said about it is there are a lot of MPs here that I can talk to on the subject, there are some who have forgotten your correct behavior when it comes to the act of terrorism, and there are us who haven't forgotten it. It doesn't take as long or as small a difference between us as it takes, especially those correct moments in the political past. They have to remember. On the other hand, when we speak less, who prefers Serbia, does anyone love Serbia, does anyone not love Serbia, I think those times are for us. Anyone who deals with the security and security of this country loves Serbia and is shown by every man and has no need to measure ourselves on the cantar anymore. Serbia belongs to all of us, to all its citizens, to the MPs. I think those times are really for us and that we don't need to discuss it that way. When we talk about threats and risks, anyone exposed to threats and risks must have support. Mr. Wolf, when you are a victim of threats you will be defended by all MPs. It's not just the president of the assembly who has to hold a press conference. All heads of Parliament, all MPs will defend you. I'm sorry we didn't condemn the burning of one of our MP Mark Jaksic's cars today. The act of attacking our MPs should at least initiate solidarity with the MPs, at least show this level of solidarity, that people who are engaged in public affairs have the solidarity of their colleagues when they are exposed to threats for their work. In the end, you pointed out that the job of soldiers and police officers is not to be models. It is a very risky profession in Serbia. We have a recent case from Vlasotinc. I'm sorry the assembly session didn't begin with a minute of silence because of that tragic death. Don't apologize when you're not feeling well. It was a while ago when MPs sent a telegram to the ministers saying they wanted a quick cure with 126 for and 95 against you. We all wish you good health and that this good health serves you, that you be the bearer of the fight against corruption, because these attacks on your personality, the family should belong to some past time and some future times should not be burdened. Finally, once again strong DS support, this is an indication that everything we've been doing and what we've been up against since 1990, from the day of the founding of the DS, has been getting its own verification in practice. We are pleased that most political parties strongly support strengthening Serbia, strengthening its security capacities, participating in such peace operations. As the SFRY once had the strength to send its soldiers to be in the composition of blue helmets and thus significantly improve the rating of our army. It is important to mention again those officers who then commanded, led the army, so important that today Serbia's Army, Serbia's police, our security structures are the bearers of these activities, to be the leader of security, not only in the Balkans, but also in Eastern Europe, to hold the primate firmly against our neighbours without these theoretical debates whether we are for Europe, whether we are for NATO. Anything that strengthens Serbia's security capacities should have the support of all MPs in the Serbian Parliament. In that name I welcome you, thank you and wish you good health and much less threats and much more success in the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8457	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8458	Dear President, the Honorable First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen of the Ministers and Associates of the Minister of Defence and Home Affairs, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, allow me to refer on behalf of the SPS to what is the topic and what is on the agenda about these laws that are in the role of confirming the agreement, the plans and the use of the Serbian Army in peace-based multinational operations and the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia in the area of defence with some other countries that we will talk about. So, what you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, were saying, we as a parliamentary group, which is confirmed by the position of Saša Dujovic, who was in charge, or spoke in principle on behalf of our parliamentary group, we absolutely and ultimately support. We fully agree with the views expressed. We at the SPS look forward to the fact that on these issues in the National Assembly we have a very large majority, so to speak, in terms of supporting these laws and this matter. When it comes to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment of a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre, I would like to say, as we remember, that the National Assembly has earlier passed the Law on the confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the area of humanitarian response in emergency situations, the prevention of elementary disasters and technical haemariums or the elimination of their consequences. We also had opportunities to hear about these issues the views of the current, current prime minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic. The basis of these views that were then expressed, but also the basis of such co-operation with the Russian Federation, we find in the National Strategy for Protection and Rescue in emergency situations caused by natural disasters and human factors. All of this has helped us to go into the realization of absolute law enforcement, so to speak, and the formation of a humanitarian centre based in Nis. The authorities for the application of this agreement, as has been said, are the MUP, and on the other hand, the Ministry of Civil Protection and the emergency situation of the Russian Federation. It speaks of how important the Russian Federation is in this matter, since there is also a ministry that deals with these issues. Of course, the need to form their ministry in this area did not come about by chance. We are witnessing that they have had many problems, and in a very effective way they have managed to deal with certain disasters. This kind of co-operation does not prejudge anything quite thirdly or in terms of what some have expressed about other military co-operation, in terms of some blocal classification. In fact, these are some concrete issues that are beneficial, not only for the Republic of Serbia and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also for citizens of other countries in the environment. A centre like this, a humanitarian centre, in Nis will have a tendency and will eventually grow into a regional centre. This year we had some fire accidents and certain funds were used, which came from the Russian Federation, these same funds are in the environment, not only in the Republic of Serbia, under the circumstances, used. What's very important is that at this point, as a country, we're not fully prepared, not in terms of human resources, not in a material and technical sense, to deal with disasters that can occur in certain cases. We have out-of-date, unreliable equipment, no resources, and no emergency response vehicles. On the other hand, human resources, when we talk about them, we have insufficient units or formations trained for certain needs. We had the opportunity to discuss this with Mr. Maric in the past, and we found that the Republic of Serbia lacks a large number of firefighters. Maybe a thousand or more firefighters at this point are needed, but it requires new funds that can't be provided, and as far as I know, a specific plan has been made that will in certain dynamics make this complete. Also, there is a lack of specialized staff, insufficient training of professional staff, unpreparedness and low capacity for local self-government for these problems. We have to admit that we have an undeveloped culture of prevention when it comes to this matter. For all these reasons, it is very important to form such a centre, that it takes over its full capacity and will certainly benefit our country, our citizens, and beyond. When we talk about the annual plan for the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2012, as well as the proposal for a decision on the participation of Serbian military members in multinational operations in 2012, of course stands, and perhaps it bothers the fact that we are practically retroactively confirming and making such decisions and one such plan, but because of the objective circumstances we understand, I do not think that this is the central and most important issue. After all, everything that was the plan and everything that was the realisation or participation of members of the Serbian Army in these operations is in line with what is our policy, in line with what is absolutely within the frameworks that actually confirm our policy as a whole. Therefore, the participation of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations has produced significant effects. Certainly, we can gain significant experiences that will be valuable for further strengthening our defenses. Serbia thus contributes to world and European security and respect for international law and peace. The participation of members of the Serbian Army in these operations is certainly an important element of our foreign policy, which is also in the function of what we want, which is our integration into the EU and the international community. Also, it should be mentioned that Article 5(4) is a point 4. The law on the defence of our country prescribed that the defence of the country be realised by the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational operations. That should be understood in the best possible way. So Serbia cannot be, conditionally, autistic, isolated, bewitched, alone, it must be a wider international community and deal with other countries with those issues that provide international law, which provide peace and one order that is in the function of further progress in civilization. When it comes to the third group of laws, the laws on confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other governments, in particular with the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil, with the Government of Greece, Angola and Indonesia, on co-operation in the area of defence, it is four separate agreements, which are actually in the same topic and with the same matter, it is very important to say once again, I stress this on behalf of the SAA, that we support co-operation with other countries, because it is twice useful. This confirms our peaceful policy, strengthens Serbia's reputation in the world, expands friendship, achieves and exchanges experiences, knowledge and technology. It is very important that this contributes to economic and technical co-operation. When we talk about this dimension of co-operation with other countries, I will only mention the character was a dedicated industry in the past in our country and in the previous country in which we lived and how useful it can be in the next period. This is a very important segment for strengthening our country and for economic consolidation of our country. We had a realisation of exports on issued licences to a significant extent over the past years. I'll only mention it in 2008. If I'm not mistaken, somewhere around $225 million orientative has been achieved through issued permits, or through export realization. We had an exchange of about 140m euros with Iraq. Of course, I'm not going to read the numbers, or that's the point, but it's noticeable that there's a difference in age where we've had greater effects in this, and there's also been years when we've had less. I think the effect even increased in 2010 or 2011. I don't know what the results of this year are, but I think it goes with one uphill line and that further conclusion of such agreements on co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and other countries in the field of military co-operation gives one good guess for the employment of all our capacities, existing capacities, as well as for the further advancement of this activity, these branches of industries that are in production function, and weapons and military equipment and all that is used in defences for the needs of other countries. That should definitely be supported. When we talk about this segment of Serbia's co-operation in the area of defence with other countries, it should eventually be concluded that it is twice useful for Serbia, that this should be supported and the SPS, I think, is, and we will remember, in principle and always supported this approach, and even in situations where we were an opposition party. Of course we support it now. Finally, I will end up with a sentence that we believe, despite the very broad co-operation we have in this area, and in the frameworks and under the auspices of the UN and in co-operation with the EU, that our country remains in positions of neutral defence policy, in terms of military defence, which is certainly the characteristic and definition of this government that we support. The Socialist Party of Serbia will vote for all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8459	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragomir Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8460	Dear President of the Assembly, Mr. Defence Minister, Mr. Vukic, dear colleagues and dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, in the Assembly, I see, are blowing new winds and whenever a good proposal is made, everyone is equally in favour. Today's discussions and debates were constructive and concrete and useful for citizens of our Serbian state. I would briefly say how important the agreements with Brazil, Indonesia, Algeria, Russia and Angola are. First of all, several meetings with the ambassadors of Brazil and Indonesia expressed the great desire and necessity to engage our professional force in the area of telecommunications. We can easily say that Serbia has human resources that can bring huge revenues to the Serbian state today in the field of telecommunications, both in Brazil and Indonesia. It's a service service. The rest of you, dear colleagues and colleagues, were talking about everything, I'd just like to say a few words about the Humanities Center in Nis. The centre can also be one factory, a large factory, currently operates 35 people, but bear in mind that in Serbia alone this year, more than 30,000 hectares of forest, 8,549 hectares of meadows and low growth, 240 hectares of orchards and vineyards, 1,602 black crops, burned down hundreds of houses, and we know exactly what the situation was in the environment and in Croatia, Montenegro, BiH, Macedonia and Bulgaria. I deeply believe that this centre will be so strong and strong that not only three thousand of our firefighters that we have today, which, I can say, are in very small numbers compared to the needs of our own country, but also the environment, will be insufficient. So, I see a chance to hire so many more firefighters, if that center is strengthened and supported. I deeply believe that the Ministry of Defence and the MUP will work to strengthen this centre, above all, technically, humanly and normally with the potential that we can offer from neighbouring countries. I want to tell you that I fully support all of this, because it is exclusively for the benefit of this country and our citizens, and that is confirmed by our opposition partners in the Assembly. I think we should step up our cooperation with all the alliances. It doesn't mean that we have to be members of NATO or the ODKB, when a colleague said it a little earlier – it's a long way away, we're far away from Kazakhstan, etc. Nothing's far today. It's all in front of our noses today. A rocket from Kazakhstan reaches Belgrade in 20 minutes, perhaps even shorter. Secondly, when we have this co-operation, that kind of collaboration, then we need to know that this co-operation also enables all of our capacities to be employed by the dedicated industry. I want success, I want to extend co-operation, deepen co-operation with other countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8461	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8462	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, respected members of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, I spoke very often in parliament in the past on the subject, particularly on the participation of members of the Serbian Army and the MUP in peace operations. I'd really like to see that when everything compares, I'll see that I was on the side of these motions. From this set of laws, respecting all previous speakers, respecting their time and all the obligations that we have, in addition to all this in today's day, gave the aspect of the story to a few interesting arguments about and not repeating what the predecessors said. What's very important? It is very important that the participation in peacekeeping operations, especially countries with former SFRY space, and it is evident that they have all, to a lesser or greater extent, participation in peace operations. The very act of participation in the peace operations of our security forces, i.e. the defence is in a member with provisions and the Constitution and the Law on the Defence and Law on the participation of our defence and security forces in peace operations, as well as with the UN Charter, whose members we are. Out of all the obligations that arise both under constitutional provisions and under the UN Charter, it is the fact that Serbia is indeed a relevant partner in these operations, given the situation of its capacities, the situation of its forces. What's very important? By participating in these operations as part of the region, we are expanding regional peace, making better neighbourly relations and having communications in almost every operation with one of the neighbouring countries in the region. In view of this fact, we must agree that Serbia is on the path of continuity, the participation of operations that have taken place since 2003 and 2004 and all previous governments from that period, as well as on the path of European integration that during the same period, all governments have indeed represented and despite some changes in the works of attitudes and the whole story. What's important to the members of our defense forces is, what I may have found unknown, little in the earlier period, the aspect of some criticism of earlier speeches, is the financial aspect of participation in peace operations. If we take the situation that, in order for our citizens to participate, the tax participation of our citizens, i.e. the withdrawal from the budget for this division, is necessary somewhere around 350 million funds are needed. Having the fact that a lower-ranking elder, let's say the captain of the first class costs about 100 a month and 1.2 million a year. When you divide this figure from the budget of about 350 million dinars into 237 members, participants of the peace operations of the Republic of Serbia, it is indeed somewhere in the ranking and annual budget that is allocated in the Republic of Serbia to this territory for one member of the Ministry or the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Defence. It's very important, and then I represented the thesis, to develop me, and the other day, the prime minister, and probably all of us think so, said that there is no strong Serbia without strong police and a strong army. In the next period, we should work to improve both the quantity and capacity of the security defence forces. It seems to me, if I'm not mistaken, and the minister will correct me, that a recent competition has been launched for the new four thousand members of the professional soldiers of the Serbian Army. It's probably just a continuum of two thousand professional soldiers, and it's very important, Mr. Minister, that situation in the structure of the senior and military staff in the coming period should really change a little in favour of the military staff. Because right now we have a situation which is more unfavourable to, say, be it the Army of Serbia, and a little inherited situation from the former JNA, or SFRY, has a certain number of high-ranking officers in the rank of Major, Colonel, Colonel, Colonel, and that the lower rank is very small. It's interesting that the quality of these operations from year to year is increasing. We learn, or members of our defense forces learn in these operations. Respectful, as I have said all that the predecessors have said and the need and thinking of all our fellow citizens, quote the thinking of a Nis girl who is 17 years old who intends to be a member of the armed forces of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period. She says about the participation of our forces in peace operations – that is the most anyone can do for his country, people, region and world. It's not just about spreading good deeds and helping people, it's something much, much more. It has a global meaning and it's a great honor to be a part of it. Our soldiers and our members of the peace missions are next to the ambassadors, besides athletes one of the best representatives, or ambassadors in countries where we participate in peace operations with the local population, their relations, then with participants from other contingents, armed forces from other countries, as well as countries from the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8463	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8464	Dear President, Mr Minister, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say a few words about the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation, allow Mr. Ministers to say that Serbian citizens have recognised the very transparent work of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army by coming to the head of the ministry. They did not only recognize it in a defensive sense, but also in an economic dimension. Now let me say a few words about this agreement. The proposal for a bill confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation on the establishment of a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis has an exceptional importance for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the state of Serbia in general. She didn't come from heaven overnight. It is the fruit of the two nations' eternal co-operation, and this co-operation has its cultural and historical foundations. They are viewed, first, in common origin, second, in related languages with roots in ancient Slovenian, and third almost in identical tradition. Fourthly, in Eastern-Visant Orthodoxism, which has maintained spiritual and collective identity in both nations, and fifthly, cultural co-operation, and sixthly, economic and military co-operation for centuries. Dear Mr. President, the ties between Serbia and Russia are not only at the cultural and historical level and the blood language, but much deeper and more dimensional than one that can be seen within the past and present relations. It is not based only on ethnic and religious closeness, it is not interested in realistic dimensions, it is spiritually and fatefully connected. The agreement to establish a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis is welcome at a time of crisis, this major economic crisis. This current global crisis is a crisis that marks definitely the end of the era of modernity. At the same time, the crisis is cultural, economic, humanitarian, social and valuable, and in its foundations, it is spiritual. The honourable MPs, the five-century advantage of Western civilization, are ending and therefore the establishment of this humanitarian Serbian-Russian centre in Nis came at the right time, this agreement by the government of the Republic of Serbia for Serbian and Serbian citizens is very important for several reasons. The People's Messengers spoke, and I will name only one. One of them is due to current ties, cultural and political closeness between the Serbian and Russian people, and the other, in an identical way, almost overlapping the interests of attitudes regarding relations in the modern international community, and they concern above all respect for the international and legal regulations of the principles of sovereignty and integrity of the territorial integrity of the state, in a concrete interest perspective, identical foreign-political attitudes, is also seen in relation to the Russian Federation, the Republic of Serbia in the UN system, above all in the Security Council, on the KIM status issue. It is also seen in Serbian abstention against positions within the OSCE, in terms of South Ossetia, but also in favour of Serbian attitudes towards the Russian initiative on a new security treaty in Europe. In other words, the Serbian and Russian sides observe in almost the same way the preferred ways of further developing international relations, within an international system that is developing in the direction of plurality. Let me finally say that it is not only this co-operation, but also the strategic two countries in the energy corridors between the Russian Federation and the most important EU member states, that is, the construction of the South Stream pipeline below the Black Sea and the Balkans, which is precisely through Serbia should reach the EU. I must, for the sake of the MPs who objected to this energy co-operation last week to learn that the Serbian Ministry of Energy, for the first time in Serbia's history, has made all the projects in one book and organized the event, and that our domestic businessmen have done a presentation of it, and so much for the information. Let me say at the end of this agreement, that the SNS's heritage policy, the Holy Sava, which means that Serbia is working with both the east and the west, the north and the south, has indeed recognised this co-operation in that direction. At the end of a recommendation, Mr. Ministers to you, when it comes to Serbian-Greek agreements, in fact, a request from all citizens originating in Krajina and the children of Krajina, to thank the people of Greece and the governments of Greece on behalf of us, for making great steps for the people, children, Greece in the great civil war in 1991, 1995, especially during the bombing of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8465	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will briefly repeat that all these points that we have, two motions for decisions and draft laws under the SNS agreement, are supported. We heard why the justification of the agreement between the Minister himself, the Vice-President of the Government, and Brazil, which is probably the current economy with the largest growth in the world, is justified in this case, these years even bigger than Chinese growth in the economy. Greece is our traditional partner, an ally in many wars and conflicts, our ally is also on the way to the EU and supports us, is that the country that has its problems, as well as everyone else, because there is almost no country today that has no economic problems on the planet, but that is no reason to talk about something, that is less important than what it is. We are building these agreements with the future, then, the Angola Agreement is detailedly explained why it is important, primarily for economic reasons, as well as the Indonesian Agreement, by reminding me of one more thing that has not been said here, Indonesia is the most human Muslim country in the world that supports our foreign policy and which has not recognised Kosovo's independence, this declaration of independence of Kosovo, and which, otherwise, which is very difficult to lobby today, lobby in the Islamic world for not recognising that independence, so that our great friend and country with which, a vast country, is a great economic interest to co-operate with, as it is said, and for our dedicated industry, is also justified. I want, before I move on to these two agreements that are most important, to look back at the debate that has been, in essence, almost any objections to these agreements, at least not some serious one. I've heard one remark that says it's a continuation of old missions, that there are no new missions, but basically it'd be better if we never voted on this, and we're not on the agenda, we'd better have general peace on the planet and we don't have unstable situations and there's no peace missions, international operations, but unfortunately, things like that happen. When we have them, we have to participate in them. This is what we are currently taking part in, and of course we will try, as a state, and I think we should try, because of the international position, military, economic and overall economic co-operation to participate, in as many of these missions as possible, wherever there are. There are some disputable like ISAF in Afghanistan, and it is also a UN mission, but NATO's trust in the leadership pact. When we look at what's going on, that's exactly what we've been talking about on the Defense Committee for the last time, what's been going on for the last few years in that mission, if we're looking at some of our general interests, that's where the police forces are forming that are fighting the drug cartel, that is, opium and heroin trafficking. We know that the biggest opium and heroin dealers in Europe are the Albanian mafia, primarily members of the KIM mafia, from Macedonia, if we are to fight them, and we are to fight, if they are financed by something, they have financed, then we should fight this mafia to fight, we should hardly be able to participate in such operations, but it is for the future to consider whether or not we should participate in all of it. It is also said whether the ministry can wash everything away, I do not understand why it is said, such ignorance of the Budgetary System Act by some MPs, because it does not have its own resources. That's not true. It has its own resources, only that according to the Law on Budgetary and Own Income, in fact, it has its own incomes, only that according to the Law on the Budgetary System, because of the control of public spending, which was not in the previous period, only in a different way reaches the military, to the Ministry of the Army or to some other public enterprises, which have their own incomes and other ministries, the justification and purpose of these funds is checked. So it's going through some kind of flow water heater, through the vault, let's say, but the money is being checked and it's coming where it's supposed to, so it's coming to the right place. As far as these two agreements are concerned, we absolutely need to support them. I am also pleased to read that in Lebanon we are now scheduled to have 58 members of the Serbian Army. I think that should be our practice in the next period. Mr. Mico Rogovic, MP, my colleague, friend, has explained it well, even from an economic point of view, because it is not as much a cost as we think it is, when we look at those regular receipts that members of the Army have, and then these additions to it. I even think that our policy needs to be in the next period and have our own contingents, not only to participate in some other people's, but our own contingents, our flag, our emblems, our participation, as we used to do. I think all of this would be justifiable and meaningful for the state of Serbia and I think that the state of Serbia could benefit only. For what? That's how we advocate world peace and security, and that's what these proposals say, which nobody said. We also confirm the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, which advocates resolving all disputes through peaceful means and respect for international rights and other generally accepted standards in international relations, as well as strengthening the role and capacity of international community institutions, i.e. UN. If we are to call and want the UN to help us, then we too must be a completely safe part of that organisation and participate in everything, to return, but we must all recognise the country's credibility in recent decades and become a credible partner to all the countries, the UN member states and, of course, the future and the EU, once we become a member of it. That is why the SNS will vote in favour of all these bill proposals and support Serbia's path to the EU, and of course co-operation in multinational operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8467	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8468	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, yes, said Mr. Karic, new winds are blowing. Basically, the only dilemma is whether it's a lahort or a breeze, or a piece of hair that needs to change things in this country. When I say change, I mean a new policy. Although an SPS representative says Serbia should not be autistic and isolated, if the minister says - I thought differently about this, but I changed my mind, it only encourages it. The responsibility for someone who's 20 years old, this is nothing personal, Mr. Wolfich, you're not the only one who's changed your mind, I speak in principle, in politics, means that not only in this matter, but in many other things he's come to change his mind. It's not the point, it's very easy or it's not easy, but it's easier to realize that you were wrong, to change your mind, it's really encouraging. It's much harder to change the way other people have followed you in the wrong policy for 20 years. The best evidence is the blood kinship, the Byzantine Orthodox kinship and the politics of the Holy Sava on which we today decide to send our soldiers to fight against pirates in Somalia. But it's just a reflection of that time and I hope it changes. Mr Vucic said that with countries whose contingents we are taking part in, which are mostly or almost exclusively NATO countries, whether they have recognised or not Kosovo, these are NATO countries, military co-operation is much above political, or, say, a political helmet for the military. That's true, and I hope it changes, because it's in our interest, in the interests of state and national, primarily state because the state is above national. Why? Because some parts of this government show elements of realism, let's say, when it comes to Kosovo. We're talking about a new policy, but it seems to me that, when it comes to relations with NATO, that realism is still missing. Many here today swore military neutrality. All right, I know that the majority against Serbia's membership is in NATO, that it's still early, but as you have changed your mind in many other things, positively, I believe the moment will come when that opinion will change. If we're really going to watch, we're not any security exporters. Did the minister's request the other day, the United States' defence minister to keep KFOR and NATO in Kosovo, mean that we are exporters or that we are importers of security, as these troops depend on the safety of Serbs in Kosovo. So, let's face it, that I don't speak NATO military in Bosnia, so we're still importers. It would be nice to become exporters. We have nine missions of 110 members. When we put Lebanon away, where half or more than half of it is, it's really quite pathetic for the Serbian military tradition, which no doubt exists, which many are proud of, although in recent years or decades, there's not much that would be in that tradition of pride. When we take that Macedonia only has 250 members in one mission, and that in the battle mission, Montenegro 90, and we in nine in 110, then it will be clear that we are lagging behind. The fact is that it strengthens the country's reputation, the credibility of the country, and this is undoubtedly what this country needs, and that is ultimately what Mr. Vukic said, as anyone realized, what it means now when they come to Norway because of only two doctors, as they look at us in other eyes. I don't have to explain what the LDP thinks about the laws that are on the agenda, you know that we're in, and that (not understood) what we are now, I don't think of Mr. General Stojanovic, he became head of military security in Sablja anyway, and remember then the government, she even offered me 900 soldiers for Afghanistan. Where would we end up, when we talk about the country's reputation, if it really happened. That's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's where we are. So, realism or elements of realism when it comes to NATO should exist. I'm not saying, I'm not saying I'm provoking you to change your mind right now, but I have to look back on that oath of military neutrality from a simple fact which is one, that is. Half a sentence in one resolution on Kosovo, not military neutrality. You all know that military neutrality costs a lot more than membership in a collective security system. When I say - military neutrality, I mean serious military neutrality, which defends this military neutrality from the country under the deterrence system, such as that Switzerland is the most militaristic country in Europe, but it is rich enough to be, and secondly, it should be recognised by others. We are surrounded by NATO countries, which are members or will soon become members and want to become members. On the other hand, you don't think we're going to solve a Kosovo problem without NATO. After all, NATO's alliance is a much wider alliance than the EU, because it is beside most EU members, and Turkey, the United States, Canada. On the other hand, NATO members have never fought war since their founding among themselves, so membership in the NATO Pact is the absolute last factor of lasting peace and stability in the Balkans, where each generation has its own war. If it hadn't been for Greece and Turkey in the NATO Pact since the '50s, by now, you'd have been aware of the war every ten years. These are some things to say in this debate, with the praise that people change their minds. It's nothing controversial, but it's a little realism when it comes to military co-operation is needed and I hope there will be more and more of it in the future. It is certainly to encourage the fact that if the minister says political co-operation with NATO countries is lagging behind the military, I am drawing the conclusion that it will do everything possible for the political co-operation to arrive in the military. So don't, this is a well-intentioned appeal, to make no one an enemy. I commend the President of the Assembly, and we must commend him, who is in place all day. I don't think it's because Mr. Vukic is a guest today, but I have to look back at the fact that when we voted, I am saying this for you, Mr. Secretary, on the Committee on Foreign Policy on the status of observers in the Parliamentary Assembly of the ODKB, people who voted against, they said, let us hear the opinion of the Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs, that this desire to enter there does not harm or damage, that Mr. Vukic does not have to explain to someone when he goes to Washington or when he goes to Berlin what happened. Mr. Vukic, when you listen to your MPs, one mentions only the Russian-Serbian Centre, the charity center in Nis, and the other mentions only this, and they don't mention this. You can see that there are somehow two policies that exist. In that sense, I thought it was a responsibility not only to change my mind, but to do everything to make other people change their minds. Finally, a few words about this Russian-Serbian charity center. The only thing that bothers us, and we've always opened that question, even though I know you're not in charge, after all. It was initiated by the previous government and it was done by the then interior minister, the current prime minister, and it's more of a police matter. It's a commercial business behind which politics certainly stands. The fact is, we don't know how much it costs. The fact is, we don't know, despite this agreement, all the details of it. On the other hand, we've been a member of the Partnership for Peace since 2006, if I'm not mistaken. Under the last government, we didn't deliver the so-called Peace Partnership. Partnership action plan, what we want from partnership to consume. One of those dishes on the menu is co-operation in emergency situations. The fact is that we are a member of the Partnership for Peace, the fact is that there is an opportunity for us to co-operate in emergency situations, and for several years after that agreement, it opens up and now ultimately finalizes this center. All right, and the previous government and this government, it's continuity. Mr. Palalic, I don't know where you found the discontinuity between the two governments. The previous minister was more of a director of the dedicated industry, but it's nothing controversial. You're also talking about military-economic co-operation and it's not controversial, we need money. The potential market is here. Our dedicated industry used to be good. It can stand, but when we talk about money, then we have to mention that money is gone, that public procurement in the army is big. I haven't been able to read the Public Procurement Act that the government sent. I hope, for example, that confidential purchases will be returned to the law, because, to remind you, confidential purchases are not regulated within the law. Public procurement has no control over confidential procurement. That's how it's been so far. You say you're fighting corruption. Public procurement is one of the sources of corruption. You know that emergency purchases and low-value purchases were the source of corruption. We'll see what happens to classified procurement because it's been unbuttoned for both the military and the police and security services, etc. With that in mind, if we're going to talk about money, that's where I'd like to hear your comment. Yes, recently he was Rogozin, deputy prime minister of the Russian Federation, and suddenly lobbyists began to advocate the purchase of a MiG-29 squadron. We brought in the National Security Strategy in 2010. We think that, without any serious analysis of whether we need a plane like that, whether we need it under those conditions, we shouldn't be getting into such serious business, whatever political pressure on the government is strong, and I believe it is, because MIG's factory is in front of bankruptcy. Those planes are ready for Syria. For known reasons, they will not go there, because there is almost no Syria, and it certainly is not their priority to buy planes, so I think that pushing someone over whom you can have influence is not in some way economically and politically justified, speaking in the context of a new realism towards NATO pact, of which indeed at this point, at least in Kosovo, our citizens depend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8469	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) Before I conclude a joint single search, the minister called. The word has a Minister Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8470	First of all, I would like to comment on what the MPs said in a few sentences. As for the increase in the budget of the Ministry of Defence, which has been declared by several representatives of different parliamentary groups, that is the wish of each and every one of us, I think, every normal man in this country. This would mean an increase in budgets and other ministries, and that would mean that we have higher incomes or that we were able to significantly cut expenditures. Unfortunately, in such a difficult economic crisis, the defence ministry's budget is consistent with economic opportunities. I hope that economic development and all that we are going to do in the next period will contribute to making the Ministry of Defence's budget realistic, not just nominally larger or not as satisfied today as we are with the fact that it is not realistically smaller than last year. When we talk about it, since there was an earlier existence and I am grateful to both Mr Milenić and many who have talked about it today, there was in some previous period, perhaps by the guilt of all of us or some of us, some kind of underestimating relationship with our army. I don't want to, like some people before me, race into who's the leader in the region, who's the strongest, who's the weakest, who's like this or who's the weakest. I don't think that's for serious people or for serious governments. What figures show, what shows professionalism, the equipment of modern technology, tools, weapons, everything at our disposal, I want citizens of Serbia and you, honourable MPs, to say that the Serbian Army plays a respectable role in the whole region and that it seems to me that no one else in any way but ourselves sometimes tries to underestimate the importance and strength of the Republic of Serbia's Army. I would like to point out to you, since you mentioned the Visegrad Group, it is a group of four countries – the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and Hungary, we and the Visegrad Group countries have very good co-operation and I would not... So, we do not participate in their battle group, nor is it possible without a special agreement that would be approved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but we want good co-operation with them and we want to use, not only with this battle group, but also with many other combat groups that exist not so far from us, it is not the most direct environment, but not so far from us and in other ways, primarily in terms of economic benefit additional to Serbia, we want to base the South, and we have discussed this on more destinations in the world, to use as a place where members of different countries will be trained for multinational operations. It's a huge political and economic benefit for us. At this point, we have capacity for about 1,000 people if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Jovanovic. In the South base, our plan and intention is to increase these capacities in the coming period, to create the most modern and best training places for soldiers who are going or going to participate in multinational operations, not only of Serbian ones, but of other European and world countries. We think it's one of the great things that would mean a lot to southern Serbia, but also to all of Serbia. We don't have to, and that's my only line on it, I understand with caution, but we don't have to approach everything with this aprior not, but that we have some kind of a milder approach. If there are problems, then problems will show us which problems we will be able to react to. On account of the master's plan, Mr. Stojanica, to answer, it will be over soon. The defense ministry's competent committees worked today and a real master plan will soon be completed. We have a lot of problems with both military property and former military property. Today we have a significantly smaller army than we had in the previous Yugoslavia. If I go in and explain all the problems we have, part of the warehouse is set aside by the MUP, and still the guards and security guards are paid by the army of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia. We have a lot of problems like that. Not to enter into relations with certain local self-governments, where some behave very responsibly, somewhere not, but it is a difficult problem and I believe that, unfortunately, next year, there will be this problem in this same period, but I hope to a lesser extent than it is today. As for the paved roads and our activities, I'm saying it's the work of all state authorities. When the most difficult situation comes as it was in the previous days, then the army of the Republic of Serbia enters the streets, the third dimension, the third task that the army of the Republic of Serbia has. I must say that I am grateful to citizens who understand and the efforts of soldiers and their desire to help the citizens of Serbia. I can't understand the public's comments, that we only have tanks to pull out trucks and nothing but frozen roads. I can't understand because these are irresponsible comments, by the way, I don't want to speak, but these tanks, too, we have a respectable number, so once again I say that if we don't already know the situation in our army, in what we all agreed today, that it represents a common good and something that we should all be proud of, the Serbian army has quite enough and very important number of tanks and, if it wasn't an open session, I wouldn't have a problem with the MPs to say that you see what our advantages are compared to many countries in the region. As far as the dedicated industry is concerned, it's one of our priorities. We have a lot of problems here, and I don't want to hide it from the MPs. It's not our dedicated industry today what it was in Broz's time. We also have a number of problems because this industry was in the area of the former Yugoslavia fragmented, so that all factories were actually complementary and compatible, then one part of the production remains in Slavko Rodic in Bugojn, one part of Đura Đaković, one part in another place, but that today we manage to make and adjust everything that remains in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that it is possible to export these products to a foreign market. Sometimes we have problems with the fact that some people in certain factories of the dedicated industry and they don't want an extra job to take in, we don't have enough capacity, we have some very responsible people somewhere. I think we're going to have more and more work to do, and we're going to have more and more to charge in 2014, Mr. Mihajlovic. So, what you compared for 2008, in 2014, we'll have a lot more money to build on the accounts of our factories, our companies. These aren't the contracts we're gonna make next year. These are contracts that have already been made, they come to the realisation for payment in 2014 and I think we'll be able to increase that further. I expect a lot more in 2015. As far as relations with the Russian Federation are concerned, we have one side of the grudge, and on the other hand we have overemphasized praises. Our debate here isn't whether we're for the Russians or for NATO. It is our job to lead the politics of the Republic of Serbia for the citizens of Serbia. That's the kind of policy we've run, and that's the kind of policy we're going to run. We want the best possible relations with the Russians, we want the best possible relations with the Americans, we want the best possible relations with the EU. That's the policy she's been leading, that's the policy this country's going to run. It's a policy that is in the best interest of the citizens of this country. At the same time, I want to tell you that on this point, how long I will travel to Berlin tomorrow, and in a few days I will have a long conversation with Mr. Shoygu, first telephone, and later I expect his arrival as defence minister, after everything we've talked about with Mr. Rogozin. That's the policy we think it brings to Serbia, and it's certainly the least related. Where we have a problem and where we have to pay attention, what many people are underestimating, and I don't want to talk about it now with underestimation, it's so-called. Kosovo Armed Forces, but I wouldn't talk about it in front of an audience this big for a few reasons. In all of this, I wanted to say that this was also one of the reasons why, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and not on my personal behalf, I asked Mr Paneta to keep KFOR soldiers in KIM in order to guarantee full security for the Serb population. I think it's another repeat, responsible and serious move. As far as politics is concerned, 20 years of thinking about change, I'm not going to answer that because it's life that doesn't sometimes depend on us, and it brings the papers. Someone might have thought one thing, but the fall of the Berlin Wall changed everything, so if someone had been smart enough to understand that that same day, they would have changed a lot. Then you'd tell him he's inconsistencies and unprincipled. It's just that when life brings something that we can't influence, it's normal for you to follow reality and change accordingly. On the other hand, whether people understand it or not, I want to point out that fact and that's my only answer to what's been said about changes of opinion. So, with all these changes of opinion for some of them we admit and say, since you couldn't get me a statement, because I wasn't in this House, I said that I had changed my personal relationship and attitude to participation or general relations with participation in multinational operations. No one else could have noticed or heard it anywhere else. So, even when you change your mind in such a way, people not only understand it, but they welcome it because civilised, reasonable and rational people do it, and that's how it is, it shows support to those who to God never change attitudes, which today are five, six, seven times smaller than us, who are not half as good as they are. On the other hand, as far as senior and military personnel are concerned, we have just asked for a partial fill-up in the Serbian Army. I didn't want to react to some sensational news yesterday as if someone for what reason is making an additional fill in the Serbian Army. The usual procedure. We are looking for 400 soldiers, and accordingly we will improve that structure, namely the attitude of the elder and the soldier. What I want you to know, too, and I'm also proud of that fact, and that's that we don't have a problem with it, and you could see that ad in the "Defence" list, you can see it on the ILO site, Ministry of Defense. We always get five to ten times as many people as we need. It also speaks of the popularity of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, it also speaks of our relationship and says that, if you will, about the love of our people towards the military, but also about the responsibility of the army to our people. In the end, I apologize, Mr. Karicu, for the expertise in the field of telecommunications, it's for some other ministries, but thank you for that information, so we'll hire people. As far as Kazakhstan is concerned, I'd like to keep that distance from the plane somewhere between four and five hours from here, so we don't think about rockets. I made a joke, of course, about what you said, I understood, anti-urban. In any case, what is important, Kazakhstan represents one of the most significant countries, as well as Azerbaijan and many other countries that we should work with. This underestimation of many countries, particularly African and Asian, has cost this country dearly over the past 12 years, expensively so that the more expensive it can't cost us. We lost huge jobs that we could have in both North Africa and the Middle East and just because we had this kind of underestimating relationship because many individuals, I wouldn't talk about political parties at all, we thought it was only important how much political support they would get from certain large Western countries and nothing else. We've always had open doors here for economic co-operation. Once again, congratulating all of you who celebrate the glory of St. Nicholas and all the citizens of Serbia, I want to tell you what I received yesterday as a New Year's gift from our friends from Algeria, which is that we will be able to hire our companies, our companies to participate in the construction of as many as 15,000 apartments for the Algerian army. It's one of the things we're just going to realize in the next period. Anyway, thank you very much. I mean, even though it probably doesn't mean anything to anyone, I'm very happy with the level at which we spoke as political opponents. Otherwise, I think that we can further improve this in parliament, although this seems more incomparably better and civilized than in time and when I have spent in Parliament and many others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8471	Thank you. I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for the act referred to in points 8 to 15 of the agenda. In accordance with Article 87(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will continue its work after 1800 hours, for the need to propose acts from the agenda as soon as possible. Also, according to Articles 27 and 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a regular break of one hour. We'll continue work at 17.00 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on draft laws under items 21 and 22 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 192 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which is the details of which you have received in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision on Supplements to the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions and the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The promoter doesn't want a word. Does the proposing representative, MP Djordje Milicevic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Lasslo Varga. You're authorized by this point? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8473	As deputy president of the parliamentary group. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak of the first point of these two. Formally, this is about amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions and it is about forming a permanent delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of collective security arrangements. This is a proposal from the president of the National Assembly, and it is essentially a proposal from four parliamentary groups – SNS, SPS, DSS and the URS. It could be debated about proposed candidates, or names, but I don't think that would be correct and that wouldn't make any sense, so I would like to take advantage of this time at my disposal to talk about the essence of a decision that hides practically behind this decision to confirm the composition of these delegations. This is about the decision to obtain observer status in the organisation of collective security arrangements. Given the importance and delicacy of this topic, I do not think this is an ordinary decision and this is not the formation of a tenth permanent delegation and in international parliamentary institutions, this is much more than that. Our belief is that we understand this decision so that this is one decision to initiate a procedure to join a military-political organisation, to organise a collective security agreement. Not to be vague, I don't think this decision means accession, but it certainly means one step in that direction. I think it's also right to say in a few words what a collective security agreement is, because it's practically the essential point of this agenda. It is a post-Soviet military-political integration, founded in 1992. In addition to the Russian Federation, there are five former members of the Soviet Union – Belarus, Armenia, Kazakhstan, Kirkizistan and Tajikistan. Over the past 20 years, some other countries have joined, so they have stepped out of this organization, but at this point, this organization has six permanent members. Perhaps the most important point in the founding document of this organization is the clause of mutual assistance. According to the Charter of the Organization, in the event of aggression against any Member State, the other Member States undertake to provide all necessary assistance, including military assistance to the affected state. Which are and might be the reason for making this decision, I can only guess. I guess it was pressure, probably pressure was unbearable, to finally make this decision. This initiative was an initiative two years ago, and it was an SRS initiative at the end of 2010. I must say that the previous majority successfully opposed this pressure and during the previous ruling coalition, this delegation was not formed. From what I've said, it's our position, and it's a deep disagreement with this decision. Now I'm going to try to make arguments as to why we think so. On the one hand, we have significant objections to the procedure itself. This decision is taken without any public, social debate, and it is about gaining observer status in a military political organisation. Therefore, without a decision on the essence, without a decision to join this organisation, it has joined the formation of a delegation with this organisation. If this issue is discussed, the parallel between NATO programmes, the Partnership for Peace, or the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, will certainly be withdrawn and I would therefore like to remind myself of the circumstances that preceded the accession of the other programme, the Partnership for Peace programme, or the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. The difference between today's decision and that decision 10 years ago was that the formation of a delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly was preceded by a public debate, and the decision of the then Supreme Defence Council, and the decision of the federal government. After that, it joined the formation of a delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. This is about procedure. As far as the essence is concerned, it is important to define what the observer's property means, and what position is that? It's a position that one state has at the moment, and that's Ukraine. I think there are huge differences between our country of Serbia and Ukraine. Ukraine is a former member of the Soviet Union, has not signed an Association Agreement with the EU, has no perspective of EU membership and is not covered by the enlargement process. Serbia is a candidate country, at the end of the SAA ratification process, and in a few weeks or months, we will likely become an EU member. It is a huge difference compared to another country that has the same status that Serbia will have after this decision. Of course, we disagreed when a decision on military neutrality was made. We didn't agree with that decision, and we thought it wasn't rational, but we understood the emotions of those decisions. This decision today, I have to admit, we don't understand it from that point of view either. Why is this our deep disagreement with this decision, I will try to further arguments to support it. First of all, it's in one sentence. I can say that we think that Serbia does not fall within the ranks of those countries that I have spoken of, which form the organisation of collective security agreements. Now I'm going to make some concrete additional arguments regarding this decision. First of all, there are two documents, the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy, which was adopted by the Assembly in late 2009. Those decisions of the National Assembly, I think they're binding. In these documents, for example. The National Security Strategy states that RS definitions are based on European foreign policy orientation and builds its own security on this, which makes it a reliable partner in these relations. In the National Defence Strategy, the concept – European foreign policy orientations, co-operation with NATO with the Partnership for Peace – appears in a large number of places, and is not mentioned in a single word in the National Security Strategy or in co-operation with the Russian Federation in this area, nor organisation of collective security agreements. On the other hand, the reliability or characteristics of a reliable partner, I think it is worth saying that the most important long-standing military action of this organization was near the Azerbaijani border on the territory of Armenia. The military action had a clear message to Azerbaijan over the Karabah area, and the message meant one warning that Azerbaijan would not consider reintegration of the area. Why does it matter? Because in a few weeks or months, they're going to join the signing of a strategic partnership agreement with Azerbaijan, and I can't understand it, or I don't understand whether anyone has taken care of these aspects of this decision today. On the other hand, the Defence Strategy says that RS is ready to engage in European security and defence policy activities and participate in NATO's Partnership for Peace programme to strengthen its own security. A European Security and Defence Policy and NATO Partnership for Peace Strategy appears in the Defence Strategy, and exactly the National Security Strategy is the starting point for the development of a foreign policy strategy. If there is a change in the strategic direction, then the change in the National Security Strategy, i.e. the Defence Strategy, should first be made, logically raise the question – why is this happening today when this organisation exists for 20 years? There was plenty of time for np. During the 1990s or between 2004 and 2007 to make this decision. I'm really interested in the reason – why are you making this decision now? In addition to what I was talking about, I don't think Serbia should have and share in many aspects the system of values of these countries that make up this organization. I'll list some parameters. According to media freedom, this is the "Vidon House" data, Serbia is a partially free country. It's in 77 places. No member of the collective security agreement organisation falls even among partially free countries when it comes to media freedoms. As for the state of democracy, Serbia is an incompletely consolidated democracy according to the same organisation, but it is a consolidated democracy. All members of the collective security agreement organisation are according to the same survey of autocratic regimes. I think that's one extremely important reason why this decision should not be made today. There's one more thing that's very interesting. In Article 4. The charter of this collective security agreement states that it promotes the democratic world order. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are only two Member States who have changed their leaders over the past decade. There is a country whose president was elected in 1990. So much for promoting the democratic world order. As for corruption, Serbia is with this level of corruption at 80 levels according to the "Transparens International". The Member States of the KDKB shall take seats from 105 to 157 on the same ranking list. As far as GDP is concerned, our GDP in 2010 was $5,200. The ODKB average is $5,000, and the average NATO member states is $30,000. This is the same information that should be taken into account when a decision is taken to initiate the integration process into one such organisation. The life expectancy in Serbia is 73.7 years, and in the ODKB it is 69.5 years, and in NATO it is 77.8. Nearly a decade longer live in those countries that belong to NATO. Today, the geographical position of Serbia and the member states of the ODKB has already been discussed. The nearest capital in these countries is the Minks airline 1,130 km, and I know that some of the main cities of the NATO member states are 330 km from Serbia's capital. There have been arguments that support this decision on parallels between the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and I believe that the motionary will talk about it if there is a replica. There is one huge difference between the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and this organisation, which is that the NATO Parliamentary Assembly aims to improve relations with the countries of the Balkans, the Caucasus space of Russia, Ukraine and the Mediterranean dialogue. The aim of this organisation cannot be to improve co-operation with European countries because no EU Member State, no candidate, has any potential candidate or observer capacity in this organisation. This is where I came up with the key problem, which is European integration. How can this decision be in line with the government's priority, with the acceleration of the European integration process? The European Union has a large number of common policies, including a common foreign and security policy, i.e. a common security and defence policy, and the future Member States have clear obligations. In Article 32. The EU Treaty states that each Member State is obliged to consult other Member States before taking any obligation that may affect the interests of the Union. Of course, this is not Serbia's formal obligation because we are not a Member State. I know that, but it is still an issue – has anyone consulted the EU on this issue? On the other hand, I was talking about a mutual assistance clause in the founding act of the ODKB. The same clause exists in Article 42. The EU Treaty. How can one country be or try to be in two organisations that have the same goal, but whose membership in terms of Member States does not match in any parameter? In addition, according to EU legal assets in the area of foreign and security policies, Member States are obliged to join EU statements, take part in EU actions and apply any restrictive measure adopted. In this regard, Serbia has joined restrictive measures towards Belarus, according to one member of the ODKB. I think it's incorrect to try to integrate in the direction of an organization where you have a Member State against which we apply sanctions. In addition, in Article 37. The Treaty establishing the EU Member States are obliged to take part in international organisations, where not all Member States, a Member State that participates in representing the interests and maintains the EU's views. There is a current example that can prove the unsustainable direction, an attempt for Serbia to go in both directions. In fact, a few days ago, the European Council reached a conclusion that, among other things, clear support for the Syrian opposition. I think we all know that the ODKB, a collective security arrangement organization, is in Syria supporting the ruling regime. Now imagine the situation when Serbia is in the status of observers participating in the organisation's parliamentary assembly, when the issue is put on the agenda, as it will be said. As an EU candidate, it has an obligation to represent the interests of the EU. As an observer and possibly future member of this other organization, she should probably share the views of the organization. So, all in all, that's what I'm going to conclude. I hope I've managed to get a lot or a lot of arguments to say that sitting on two chairs is impossible. It is nice to talk about the need for co-operation with everyone, to show openness, but in this case, when it comes to this issue, the EU's common security and foreign policy is competitive, or the ODKB is a competitive organisation of this EU common policy. It's just that one country can't be in one organization or another. It is not by chance that I will end up, once again I want to underline that no Member State, no candidate, no potential candidate for EU membership has the status of observers and is not considering this status in this organisation. So, for all these reasons, we are against forming this delegation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8474	The word is proposed by Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8475	Thank you. I have to say that today during the debate, and not just at this point when we're talking about this point, but during the debate on the previous set, I've heard a lot about the subject that I think they're taking too dramatically. At this point, we have the status of an associate member in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, although Serbia has not always had a beautiful and positive experience with the NATO Pact, we have decided to join this parliamentary dimension as a National Assembly, wanting to show that Serbia also cares about its strategic interests. We want to join the status of observers by forming a parliamentary delegation at the ODKB. So, to be an observer in an organization that also aims to preserve peace in the areas where the organisation acts and spread democracy. What is important, I think everyone should understand that Serbia, at least as I see it, should not represent either these or those objectives, but its national interests. Serbia should not be constantly guided by other people's ideas, but by ideas that lead to our citizens living better, that our citizens enjoy better protection, that our citizens benefit from our actions. Do you know which country was least mentioned today during our debate – Russia. That's the name most of the time nobody mentions. It mentions Kazakhstan, Belarus, but Russia is somehow avoided by all to say. Yes, Russia is the head state of this alliance. Did we run away in previous years from economic co-operation with Russia? Were we disgusted by money and agreements, loans, other agreements with Russia when we thought about it? Were these regimes then autocratic, unacceptable to us? I don't think so. I think we talked some other way back then. The amendment, which she has submitted, as a proposing representative, I can say, the DS are proposing their member to the ODKB. I've accepted that. They'll have their own representative. This assembly will participate with the largest number of MPs. They represent the two-thirds composition of Serbia's parliament, which shows that there is a certain mood for the entire parliament of the Republic of Serbia to participate in this organisation. This does not exclude participation in the European defence and strategic direction of Serbia towards the EU, in no way. We just want to give Serbia additional opportunities, to be better protected, to be better presented and to observe in the status of observers. I wish Serbia was in the status of observers in all possible organisations. Why? What harm does the Republic of Serbia, if we have enough money to send these people to talk, follow the work? I don't think that's a problem for Serbian citizens. I think it's a big plus for us. If we were guided by logic that we cannot co-operate with countries where people live shorter than in Serbia, then we would not be able to co-operate with many other countries. If Germany were to run, which is also Russia's closest partner, 55% of the economic scale of co-operation have with Russia, these principles, they would not cooperate with Russia in the next 50 years. Germany intelligently represents its national interests, co-operates with Russia wherever it suits it, even in much greater scope, than Serbia today. She understands that it is the strategic interest of the German state and German citizens. Serbia must thus represent its national interests. The Republic of Serbia must regain consciousness and begin to monitor only its national interests and protect what is the national interest of the Republic of Serbia. I think our participation in the status of observers, which is lower than our participation in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, we have the opportunity to further protect the interest of Serbian citizens and we have the opportunity to show that Serbia is indeed facing east and west. We need money that we can get from countries from the east and money and technology that we can get from countries from the west. We firmly represent our thesis that we want to go to the EU. It's the policy of this ruling majority. I know it's always trying to argue in some way, but I'm telling you that again. What is the interest of the Republic of Serbia in this delegation, I think it should be made clear. This principle of military neutrality that Serbia stands for, we are fully on it. I think that we should never be a formal NATO member, nor a member of the ODKB, enough that we are in the status of observers or associated members of the parliamentary dimension to clearly highlight our commitment to military neutrality. We don't want to put ourselves on anybody's side. Serbia is too small to balance it and decide what will be here or there. Serbia takes care of its national interests and I think by joining this organisation it goes towards having a wider basis, to show greater width for the citizens of Serbia, to show that we care, as the Germans have, as I have stated, that when we work with Russia we have a good friend there and that when we work with Germany we have a good friend and there and that we provide for our citizens a long-term stability and security. I think this was the goal, and I think in that way, hopefully, the largest number of MPs will apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8476	The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8477	Just a brief replica of a few things. So, with cooperation, I completely agree. Germany is a great example. Does Germany have any aspirations to become or have observer status in this organization? If so, we won't mind either. But there is no member of the EU, no candidate, no potential candidate who would have such aspirations. As far as the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is concerned, and that's what I'm talking about, there's a huge difference. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly aims to co-operate with these countries. The aim of this organisation cannot be to co-operate with European countries, with EU member states, because there is no and there will be no EU member states in this organisation. Another huge difference between the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and this organisation is that, among other things, Russia, or Armenia, has the status of an associated member in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. On the other hand, all Member States of this organisation, ODKB, participate in the Partnership for Peace programme. I repeat once again, no member of the EU, no potential candidate has that desire, or intention. A few months ago, there was a debate on amendments to the National Bank Act. I think some MPs have proven that they understand European integration. I am telling you that, not this decision, but this direction is contrary to the goal of Serbia being part of a common European security and defence policy at some point. At this point, there are large debates about it in the EU. The next year, in December, the European Council will have one summit only on this topic, on continuing co-operation in this area. If we do not understand this and we are going in the opposite direction, then we are certainly just making our process of European integration more difficult, which is also so extremely difficult for some other reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8478	Thank you. The word is Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8479	As I said, you are formally right that Germany is not in this organization today. But, let me tell you, many countries were not in different organizations at different stages of their existence. When it corresponded to their national and strategic interests, then they joined them. If someone in 1999 or 2000 had raised the claim that we should join NATO or the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, I am not sure that this idea would be widely and well accepted either in parliament or among the people. Times change. Times are such that we have to worry about our national interests. We've only had too long to be more critical than anyone else. This has been on the agenda for a few days. It is no secret that Serbia will form this parliamentary assembly delegation. I haven't heard any criticism on the side, that someone said that Serbia, nor would it be appropriate for someone to criticise us in such a way, but it seems to me that sometimes we introduce ourselves more self-censorship than we need to. I still think this is a good move for Serbia and for Serbian citizens. We're entering observer status here. If the Republic of Serbia ever assess that participation in any parliamentary assembly delegation, which I really think will be impossible, but let's say we all estimate that it harms any interest of Serbian citizens, whether it's NATO or the ODKB, I will be the first to vote to step out of this parliamentary assembly delegation. I invite you all to follow what is of national interest to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to the Republic of Serbia and to be the basic idea of leadership when we talk about any decision made by this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8480	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Lasslo Varga, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8481	Another replica, really short and I won't do it anymore. You have talked about national interests and it is certain that it should be taken care of, but I believe that we should also take care of what kind of organisation we are joining or where this delegation is being formed. I believe you, Mr. President of the Assembly, know what's going on in that region, in Syria, in Iran, etc. If you know that, then you must also know that there are clear aspirations that perhaps the next member of this organization, a full member will be exactly Iran. Imagine the situation in which we will be, at least in the status of observers, in the same organisation in which this country I have been talking about, which is certainly unacceptable for the EU and from the aspect of economic co-operation. So I have no illusion that this decision will be made and that this delegation will be formed. It's not this, or else, and that's what I was talking about, the initiative from a few weeks ago. This initiative was submitted by SRS MPs in December 2010. They insisted on forming this delegation, and the previous ruling majority successfully opposed the formation of this delegation. Unfortunately, unfortunately for us, of course, it is your right to agree with this, this delegation will form in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8482	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8483	I still want to assure you that I believe we are making a decision that is in the best interest of Serbian citizens. Regardless, you know, we are members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, whose individual countries insist that KIM is not an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and you could say that these countries are working to harm the interests of the Republic of Serbia, and we are still a member of the parliamentary assembly. If we put these things in place and measure them now, we could come to different conclusions, but I think that the national interests of the Republic of Serbia must be far-reaching and that we must be far-sighted. Those countries with whom we wish to achieve co-operation do not bind us with our decision today, i.e. by making this formal assembly delegation in the status of observers Serbia does not bind its hands. Serbia allows itself to have better co-operation with different countries, with countries where we have huge support in our foreign policy, with countries where we have a huge economic and trade exchange, with countries with which we have signed strategic and national projects in the field of energy, from those areas where we allow the Republic of Serbia to be less dependent on anyone. I think that this should be the goal of our policy, to be as dependent as possible on anyone, to rely as much on a number of countries as possible that can provide us with a certain type of service and goods and everything else, that we don't have to ask anyone, if we're in a monopoly position, so we have to pray, but that we can be independent in that decision. I therefore believe that the formation of this assembly delegation is just another possibility for the Republic of Serbia to have greater opportunities to act, to have opportunities to see what is happening in the countries in the environment, with which it has economic co-operation. I repeat again, if we ever make a decision or assess that Serbia's participation in any of the delegations is harmful to the interests of the Republic of Serbia and to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we can decide in this parliament to step out of that organisation. Especially when it comes to the parliamentary dimension, where we also have the status of an associated member, such as NATO, and where we have the status of observers, such as the ODKB, if we choose to vote in the day. I still really think that this is not harmful to the citizens of Serbia, but that Serbian citizens can benefit only from this. I hope that other parliamentary institutions will invite us to join in this way. I don't mind voting to become a member and observer in as broad a number of parliamentary parliaments as possible, so that Serbia can, with its participation, make a contribution to raising the reputation of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to giving an open opinion. I also call on those people who are members of all parliamentary delegations not to represent neither NATO's stances nor the ODKB's views, but to represent the views and interests of the Republic of Serbia, to say there what Serbia is thinking. If the members or organisations do not like it, let them exclude us from those organisations, but we will represent what is the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we will not be courting, when we go to the ODKB delegation, what they say there, and we will not be courting when we go to NATO for what the people of NATO say. We will represent equally what is the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our strategic, economic, defence and all other interests that we have. I think all those who are representatives of the Republic of Serbia in the executive bodies of the government, in parliament or in any other organisation must be guided by this way of thinking. If someone doesn't like it, we don't have to give up our national interests because someone doesn't like it at a meeting where we're in observer status, so they didn't like what one of our members said or said. Then, at that point, I think it's also unwise for us to participate in this kind of organization. Until that happens, I think it is a good idea that we participate in as many organizations as possible, that Serbia knows directly what is going on in the world, that our people can participate directly in these forums and, in the end, that these people hear firsthand what it is that Serbia has to say. In many cases, I was present when representatives of various countries and the East and the West asked me a very simple question – gentlemen, and where are you? You know, over the past many years, no one from Serbia has come to tell us, to explain, to lobby, to explain, to press, for various topics. We talk very often about only one or two topics, about many topics. Why are we not with many other countries with whom we have had intensive co-operation over the past few months, with which we are experiencing a huge economic increase in co-operation. A trade that's far bigger than before. Why didn't we do it in the previous period? Did anyone defend us? Or it was also some form of autocensorship. So I am convinced that our accession to the largest number of parliamentary organisations, including the ODKB, will be good for the Republic of Serbia and for its citizens. I repeat once again at any time when you assess that this is causing adverse consequences for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am ready to discuss any of these decisions in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8484	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Varga. (Nobojsa Stefanovic, from the site: On what basis give him a replica? )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8485	It's really the last replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8486	He's right about the interpretation of the exhibit. Here you go, Mr. Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8487	It's about national interest first. First, it should be clarified whether entering the EU is a national interest, because if it is, that's where many things come from. Among other things, it follows that at the moment Serbia becomes a full member, it will not have the right to represent its views in such organisations. Because it simply states in the EU's founding contract that in these cases Member States are obliged to represent the EU's views, not their views, that's one thing. The other thing is, it's not true that we don't have to ask others when it comes to this area. This applies naturally to EU Member States. Of course, at some point it will apply to us. In this same agreement on the establishment of the EU, I have quoted it as saying that before taking any obligation in this area of the Member States is under the obligation to consult with other Member States, or with the EU. What's a key question, it's not a question for this moment, because today is not a decision to make, but there will come a moment when a choice obligation will be made between these two directions, and hopefully at that point we will choose the direction that is in our deep conviction of the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8488	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8489	Serbia will certainly represent the EU's views when it is an EU member and will then fight within the EU for its positions to be represented in EU positions. Of course, Serbia as an EU member will not fight its national interests, they would be completely abnormal. So, we must also, when we are members of the EU, fight for those positions within the EU and talk to more EU countries than we and those who are equal to us, that what the national interests of the Republic of Serbia are included, and the attitudes that the EU, not only Serbia, but also the EU represents. I also see Serbia's participation in the EU as working on a partnership. I expect that we as partners, and I sincerely hope that Serbia, within a relatively fast time, will become a full member of the EU, that Serbia in that family of European countries will encounter equal partners who will understand what the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are as their values, which I believe most citizens who are citizens of EU countries will share. I think Serbia is one normal European country whose values are exactly that, growing normal families, growing people who want to bring this country good, which I believe all the members of this parliament want. So, I think those views that Serbia will then represent will be the attitudes of the EU in which the norms are incorporated, respecting the values that Serbian citizens have, that this will be respect for the general values that this country has. Of course, I think it's totally natural. We today have the right to represent what our national interests are. I think it is absolutely correct and legitimate and we have the right to consult as we always consult, but ultimately the decision is made by the citizens of Serbia, if you will, this Parliament. At these moments, we must make a decision driven by the greatest desire, to fulfill the greatest interests of the citizens of Serbia. When we talk about economic co-operation, when we talk about co-operation with the countries that invest most in Serbia today, we need to be equally sensitive and what the EU countries want, because today they are the ones that invest most in Serbia. We must be sensitive to what the Russian Federation, which is the country, which today is one of the countries that has invested most in this country. We also need to talk to our partners in China, we need to talk to the United States, with a variety of countries that have their own interest in Serbia and with which Serbia today has different economic interests. I think it's the interest of the citizens of Serbia. We have to be open to everyone, we're not big enough that we can have the luxury of choosing left or right, especially when it comes to economic co-operation, and I think so far, and I expect that it won't be from now on, our attitudes won't be offensive to anyone, because our attitudes are those that maintain exactly these true values that I've been talking about for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8490	Thank you. Mr. Đuric, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8491	You've hurt Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So this debate has been going on for almost an hour. On several occasions, by my deep conviction, you have without foundation allowed a replica. In doing so, I think there is another breach of the Rules of Procedure, which we can very easily solve. Mr. Stefanovic is proposing this act, is that right? It is not common for proposings to sit in the parliamentary benches of the subsequent party they belong to. So it might also be better because of the importance of this decision, because of the fact that Mr. Stefanovic and the president of this Parliament are sitting in this place where the representatives of the proposings usually sit and that we are in charge of the debate. Please allow the debate to run normally. So, for almost an hour now, MPs, representatives of most parliamentary groups cannot participate in the debate at all because we have a dozen replicas here. It is not a common practice in the congregation. You are not a vice president who is prone to such practice, and I ask you not to make an exception in the situation when Mr Stefanovic, President of Parliament, comes in as an authorised promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8492	I don't think I hurt Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, because nowhere has it been established in the Rules of Procedure how long it takes to pass from the first speaker to the second speaker. So, neither is it determined how many times I can give the replica to a specific MP. So, I felt, after speaking to Mr. Varga, Mr. Stefanovic replied to Mr. Varga's questions, and Article 104 implies that he has the right to replication and the MP who was misread in the presentation. So I felt that Mr. Varga, on this basis, was looking for a right to a replica, and that's why I allowed that replica. As for the seating schedule, I do not see at all what the problem is that Mr. Stefanovic is sitting in a bench party, a parliamentary group to which he belongs, since until now in the Assembly it has been such a practice that every proposing, whether it is the chairman of the board or in this case the president of the Assembly, sits right in the benches of the parliamentary group to which he belongs. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Boyan Djuric, from the scene: Of course I do. ) Okay, in the voting day, we'll make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8493	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, we have heard a lot of words from Mr Stefanovic, who is presently in the part of this agenda in the role of the promoter on what is actually going on here, about what this assembly will say when it votes on this item of the agenda. We have heard a lot of advice on how Serbia should co-operate with the world, how it should be open to everyone, how we need to talk, establish contact with other countries. It is unclear only whether it was Mr. Stefanovic trying to convince us that Serbia is a country that must co-operate with the world or was trying to convince its voters and voters of their parties who obviously do not understand it yet. Come on, before you begin to teach us how to co-operate with the world that at least try to establish co-operation with Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and all countries where your party's representatives are still not welcome. So these lessons about how to co-operate with everyone really aren't needed by the SNS, we know that very well. What is left here is actually the essence of this agenda point, which is that today the Serbian Parliament is discussing a delegation that will represent this assembly in a group of countries of the former Soviet Union called some kind of eastern NATO pact. That wouldn't be a problem if Serbia's definition were such that Serbia was defined instead of Euro-Atlantic, someone would say only European integration, for some Asian integration. The tendency of this organization is precisely such that Russia's mother gathers around herself again the former countries of the Soviet Union, which will once again be held under one of her security caps. In doing so, I understand the interests of the countries involved in organising collective security arrangements to participate in it. These are all the countries of the former Soviet Union, these are countries that have been members of the Soviet Union for decades and have therefore led a single security policy, which had strategic objectives, in the same way developed industry, and their defence policy and military industry have also been developed towards those needs that the Soviet Union as the then great state has. What I'm kind of missing is Serbia's interest in participating in an alliance of Soviet states, what isn't said the same, and Mr Varga said at one point that this is not a new initiative, this is an old SRS initiative that has so far failed to get the necessary majority, but here's the SNS, although it has changed its name, SRS policy obviously continues. What is the problem is that Serbia as a country which, I hope, is still seeking to become an EU member, will quickly come into a position to choose between the positions of one organisation and the views of another organisation. What is problematic is that in the organisation of a collective security agreement, there are countries that are very low-listed by all international standards, when it comes to the level of democracy, when it comes to human and minority rights and freedoms, when it comes to freedom of the media. It is not clear to me why someone is trying to classify Serbia in this society of countries where Serbia really is geographically, strategically, neither by its political definition nor by what I hope is our goal, it cannot belong. Mr. Stefanovic was even inspired to talk about what are all the advantages of it, said about how we should be there, to be present and to see what is happening, as if it did not take away any political consequences and pulls away. It is not a gathering of birdwatchers, where we need to be present to hear what new trends are, but rather an organisation that has a common foreign security policy, which is directly opposed to the EU's common foreign and security policy, and Serbia, if it remains defined towards EU membership, will have to give up one piece of its sovereignty very quickly when it comes to accepting the EU's common foreign security policy. At one point, they will exclude each other and it is not something that Serbia has decided, it is simply the course of things. It would be interesting then to hear whether we still want to become a member of the EU or whether we have defined ourselves 70 years after this country said - no, Stalin, to become part of the new Warsaw Pact.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8494	Thank you. The word is Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8495	I've made it very clear, and I don't have a problem repeating here more times tonight, and I'm really going to do it. Serbia, or the definition of this ruling majority, is that Serbia is heading towards the EU. Someone might like it or not like it, but that's the way it is. However, what you said and what certainly does not stand, which is that we have bad relations, because the representatives of my party are not welcome anywhere. As for Croatia, BiH, Serbia really wants to create a good regional policy and a regional atmosphere. We are trying to make contact with the representatives of these countries through our operations and to protect the national interests of the Republic of Serbia. When the Republic of Croatia expelled hundreds of thousands of Serbs from its territory, when it made it impossible for them to have normal lives, to have no houses, and I visited these people, I visited Benkovac, Knin, saw in what manner and conditions these people live, what their houses look like, what they look like. The renovated houses, that they have no schools, no hospitals, and the place to hire, especially, look disastrous today. Croatia should become an EU member soon. We just want the Republic of Croatia with which Serbia wants to achieve good co-operation, fulfil its international obligations, its obligations as a member of the EU and I think that the Republic of Serbia should insist on that, to allow Serbs to return to Croatia, to be given the right to property, the right to housing rights, the right to employment, the right to wages and pensions, and that is the thing that we do not need to push under the carpet, because that is the interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, these are our national interests. As for BiH, I think that co-operation with BiH is progressing, that our relations in the region are improving significantly, I think the same is happening with the Republic of Montenegro. I think that this ruling majority is taking great care of this, because Serbia must have a good regional partnership in co-operation with all the countries in its environment. As far as the subject is concerned, we certainly won't be a party that advocates corruption or crime or beating people with five bodyguards, we won't advocate being part of any corrupt process. We will stand up, and obviously, for those of us, the worst, unlike you who are much nicer and better, we always somehow have 15 or 20 times the support of the citizens of Serbia, we always have a lot more votes and it is obvious that Serbian citizens recognize that the SNS is still leading the policy that benefits most of their interests. That's why we are today and the strongest party of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8496	Alexander Jerkov's national emissary, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8497	It is nice to hear that we are unequivocally defined for EU membership, but let us show it. I will agree first on the problems of the people who have escaped from Croatia. I don't see how they'll get rid of it. By not communicating with representatives of Croatia, but by making statements that further deepen the problems that exist between the two countries? You may not be the party that does this, but you were the party that sent volunteers to kill people in all those countries you mention...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8498	Please, Mrs. Jerkov, respect the dignity of the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8499	... What's this about, ma'am? ... And you'll always be the party that foretold the assassination of the prime minister at the rally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8500	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8501	Dear Vice-Presidents, President of the Assembly in the role of the motion for this act, and then the party's portfolio, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have just intervened, expecting that this debate will at some point drop to this level that Parliament's president, as a representative of this act, speaks from second place. Here symbolic things are always very important, and that's why I thought that somehow in a much better way we would preserve this Parliament's dignity if we did. All right, your decision was different and I'm sorry it happened. You know what, Mr. Stefanovic, it was not disputed that you had several times more support for your policy in 1991 or 1992 or 1993. Time has shown that you were wrong at the time and that it was right to have, as you say, several times less support. You said it was hard to find people or political parties in Serbia, who in 1999 or 2000 would advocate a different, pro-Western political path or... (Nebojsa Stefanovic: NATO. Don't speak to me directly, you have no right to the Rules of Procedure. Don't throw me out of my place.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8502	I ask the MPs to allow the speaker to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8503	No, I don't mind. I'm just saying you're the President of Parliament and you have to set an example. Or were you talking about how it would be difficult to imagine then, to make a political decision that would involve our closer integration with the NATO Pact.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8504	Please, Mr. Djuric, don't speak directly to the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8505	But it's common here to speak directly to the proposing's representative. Is Mr. Stefanovic a representative of the promoter? Is it?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8506	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8507	How do we address ministers?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8508	In this context, address him as a proposing representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8509	How else do you think I'm talking to him? That's why I say it's better that he sits here, that we have a normal atmosphere, that's why I pointed it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8510	Go on, Mr. Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8511	You see, in 1999, in this same building, you made an idiotic political decision to join unification with Russia and Belarus. Well, of course it was an idiotic decision, because the first thought was the Russian Federation itself, which was baffled by someone's idea at all, that it could unite with it, and that it was a few thousand miles away, so that initiative ended.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8512	Please, Mr. Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8513	In that context, this is some kind of progress. Representatives of the same political forces, today under different political names, propose a political act, which is certainly less serious or less dangerous, this is only a participation of observers in the parliamentary assembly, the "won bi" of the new Warsaw Pact, and that is certainly less than the 1999 decision. Mr Stefanovic also suggested an interesting model of political decision-making, which is that we enter into this arrangement, make a decision, and then step out of that arrangement, if it leads to something, which would endanger Serbia's vital national interests. I'm counting on that time, I almost quoted you correctly. I suggest you do the same on another case. Let's make a decision to enter Serbia into the NATO Alliance accession process, and then, if at some point this seriously endangers Serbia's national interests, we also make a political decision legally binding to come out of the process. As you know, it's possible. Why is there no political willingness to make such a decision? The third or fourth thing, I was hoping that the president of this parliament was able to see before the opposition political parties the text or draft text of the platform on Kosovo. From what he was saying, I'm afraid that he didn't see that text, because I don't think he'd say it this way, that he's familiar with the text in detail. Among other things, according to my knowledge, I don't know if the "state secret" mark is still on the document, in no place does the document speak of neither this alliance nor Serbia's ambition to take its national interests outside the EU framework and without close co-operation in one way or another with the NATO alliance. (President: Just get back on topic. ) There are explicit provisions of the platform, future platforms on Kosovo likely, that say Serbia's national interests in Kosovo and Metohija, that survival, that quality of life, that security, the exercise of rights, several tens of thousands of Serbs in Kosovo depend exclusively on the presence, behaviour and relations with KFOR/ NATO. That is why for Serbia, the relationship with the NATO alliance and the relationship with this organisation that we are talking about today cannot be on the same level. Russia, and it's not true that no one has mentioned Russia today, no one here has ambition or even if it doesn't have LDP to pretend, it's clear that the Russian Federation is politically, however you will, a leader in every sense of this organization that we're talking about. Russia has the right to make organisations what it wants, to be a kind of response to other processes in Europe, NATO alliances, foreign, defence policy of the EU, etc. This has the right to do so all other countries, especially those located in the immediate environment of Russia. I don't see what Serbia's connection to Russia and this organization is like? Why, as an argument, do you point out that we have seriously developed economic co-operation, economic interests, energy and every other type of investment with the Russian Federation, and that is why we need to be in this status? To remind you, such or even more developed relations with Russia have many other countries, not only Germany, not only the most important EU countries, but also the countries of our environment. You insisted on the concept that through military neutrality on the one hand, while entering this arrangement on the other hand, you would provide the independence of the Republic of Serbia, its ability to be independent or to be on some kind of middle-term, between the West, the East, the Western and Eastern influence, so you are as one of the essential elements, which is always important in matters of security, instructions on the issue of energy independence, alleging that Serbia is energy independent and the relations we have with Russia, or energy agreements. I'm sorry, but it's not true. Serbia is not independent in energy relations with Russia and we can prove it in as many ways as you want. You're saying that because we have sold below the price of the oil industry to the Russian state-owned company, because we are the only country in the environment, in Europe, which is a minority shareholder in the South Stream and a minority shareholder in the underground warehouse, that this is proof that we have better relations with the Russian Federation than those countries that, not only are not members, or observers in the parliamentary assembly of this Russian organisation, but are members of the NATO Alliance. One of your key political arguments was that it is good, useful, in line with the country's national interests, that we will achieve better results in economic, energy, political and any other co-operation with Russia if we enter this status. But how is it that the states that are in the NATO Alliance, at least on a general, formal level, are in some way opposed to Russia, or the Russian Federation in military-security issues, that they ultimately have better conditions in energy co-operation than they do in energy arrangements, than Serbia, which is so close, which has so much developed relations, which is the only country of this part of the world, which has defined itself as a completely wrong concept and an unsustainable concept of military neutrality? My criticism of this position and the proposal for this decision are certainly somewhat different from those of the objections coming from the ranks of some other opposition parties. I assume that DS, some other parties, will criticise you from the point of view that this violates some kind of military neutrality. I don't think that's true. In that sense, your argument is correct, that we on the other hand have some co-operation with NATO and that you can justify it as a preservation of the concept of neutrality. The political position of the LDP is different. We think Serbia should be a NATO member and it is in the best national interest of the Republic of Serbia to launch the political process of NATO accession as soon as possible. That is why we think it is unsustainable that at the same time this country enters a different, firstly, so to speak, parliamentary-political, and then at one point inevitably and contractually or legally binding arrangement with this organisation. Somewhere deep down, Miss Jerkov is right. The political decision on this issue was made by this country in 1948, and if then, as a weak country, regardless of differences in size, we had the strength to make it, why today cannot we resist this ambition to be involved in an alliance that is not our natural state, which is not our natural choice, which is not in the best interest of this country? So, interests, rights, the position of the Serb people in Kosovo will not be defended by members of any of these countries' armies or will not be defended by members of this alliance that is formed, will defend them, and now must do so, members of another military alliance. You say, all day long, it has been going through the debate, that Serbia must be militaryly neutral because it has been determined by a binding resolution, a declaration by this Parliament. As you know, any decision made by this Parliament, resolutions and declarations in particular, can change. Let's go dot on the point of that declaration, which contains that sentence or half sentence of military neutrality. You will see that almost one of the remaining points is no longer politically in force, that, if you will, your political party has rationally given up one piece or most of those views, as well as all those violent, bickering, anti-Western, if you will, attitudes from most eight or nine declarations, as far as this assembly is under different parliamentary majority, to be fair, adopted over the past few years. There's another very important question. I think we need to talk about this when we are discussing the choice of parliamentary bodies, or delegations. I am also more concerned about the proposed composition of this delegation, especially the fact that it is represented by Mr Drecun's largest parliamentary party. I have no confidence that Mr Drecun will represent attitudes that would be suited to Serbia as a military neutral country and that in a equally quality and serious way, it will defend the position, determination, political orientation of Serbia as a country that wants to become an EU member. In politics earlier life isn't everything, but it's usually very important. Political publicity, all the people in this House know what they were and what political attitudes, style, whatever you want, Mr. Drecun. That is why I think that a delegation in which he could be, and if he were not able, is not ready to represent Serbia's interests or the position of Serbia, in relation to these security issues, as he is today trying, extremely mild and neutrally to present to us Mr Stefanovic as the proposer of this act. It is not even true that Russia is asking Serbia to do this. If that were true, she would ask all the other countries she has developed relationships with. The DSS MPs, it seems to me, in this House the last few weeks have been very intensely pointing out the fact that, for example, Cyprus as a member of the EU has entered into a very favourable credit arrangement with the Russian Federation. This does not mean that Russia, on the other hand, asked Cyprus to step forward from all the alliances, from all the organisations in which it is located and to define either the concept of neutrality or the concept of entering the observation status of the organisation that we are talking about here today. The fact that Germany may at some point leave all the organizations in which it is located, where not only is it located, but it is the basis, one of the founders, the pillar and join this organization or, which is another variant, that the existing NATO alliance, that all other organizations simply grow into this, that in some way they join, which is obviously one of the ideas completely unreal, actually has no contact with reality. Of course, Germany has several dozen times more developed relations with Russia and the Russian Federation than Serbia has. The reasons are primarily due to Germany itself being a much more developed country than Serbia, but also to the fact that these relations are set on very clean and rational grounds. Germany has defined its national interests, as it sees them in the modern world, after the terrible experience of World War II. It did not step down from the key items, and they meant a very committed work to build the EU and a very important commitment to NATO. Nor does Russia ask Germany to leave these processes, nor does it restrict it in the business, commercial arrangements it concludes. At what price do German gas companies buy from Russia, and at which price does the Serbian company Srbiagas buy through the Russian company Jugorosgas? It is a measure of the quality of the countries, not the fact that you are in the observational or any other status in this organization. When we talk about the impact here on the potential decision that you will, unfortunately, make in the voting day and our European integration, I fear that you are showing a fundamental lack of understanding of the meaning of European integration. Don't expect every time an ambassador tells you some of the EU countries or Mr. Deger at a meeting or at a press conference what he can't do, what he can't do. This is not the way the EU works. Some of these things, or regulations of what they can or cannot, are contained in documents that we accept and which we sign. Since politics here too often comes down to the symbolic question of who has the pen, who signs the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and who paints under which flags, then the content of the documents we sign very often remains unknown not only to the public, which is a big problem, but also to those who signed it or in any way adopted it and confirmed it. It's not an objection that isn't exclusively about you or your political party. There have been many dangerous ways and in previous years when someone else has exercised political power in this country and therefore European integrations have been set up in such a way that every little one, we wait for an ambassador to come to the canoes to see if there is any new condition or not. We as a country are unable to establish mechanisms that what you call conditions, and I would say, the rules of functioning of the EU, are set up and operate on their own. I guarantee you, yesterday I saw that Minister Ljajic promised Vensan Dežer that the digitalisation process will be completed by June 2015 and I guarantee you that in April, May, we will discuss whether the EU is blackmailing us, pushing us and forcing us to digitise our media. It's because that's how we view these processes. In this situation, the same thing will happen. Today I was fragrant when I heard, one of your MPs blew it up, that you were planning for that Russian centre in Nis, a joint humanitarian centre, to call it formally whatever you want, to grow into a regional energy centre at one point. Are you aware of how collegiate this is with our commitments in the coming months and years in the European accession process? When you open the first chapters in the negotiation process, whenever it is, you'll see why it's so problematic. You can have great political relations, whatever you want with Russia, but you can't make models of cooperation that are competitive with those of which it is interested and set up by the EU and that it rationally expects these models to be attached and involved by those who themselves have shown ambition to become a member state someday. Do not ask the EU and will not ask us not to be in this organisation, but will just ask us how we will lead a common, foreign and security policy, and we are sitting as observers, it is not important in any way, in an organisation where there are no other EU member states. Since we already have a problem, one fine day, when we are close to becoming, or entering, EU membership, we will be the only country that is going through the process and that is militaryly neutral, or that it has not been defined for NATO. Because of this doubt, the degree of expectations will be greater, so if you want to end up putting pressure on this country than they are on some other countries. For the very end, do not say in this House that someone from the East or the West, however, gives anything to this country, except for these 170m euros, which we receive as a gift from the EU next year, and we take all other loans and we pay all other loans and that's perfectly normal. So, I'm always in favour of making investments, if we can't, to take loans like you keep taking them, to be under those conditions that are most favourable to us, but it seems to me that I heard Mr. Vukic who said no loans from some of the countries that we've been expecting yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8514	The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8515	I didn't say anyone was giving anything. I really didn't say that, and I don't think anyone gives us anything. We should try to make sure that our economic relations with all countries are and that's where I agree with you, which is more favourable. Let's be the ones who buy gas from the east and the west at the best price, not in any way that we can be in a subordinate position. As for what you said at the beginning, military neutrality, that is the fundamental concept of misunderstanding between you and me. So, among all those who claim that we should enter the NATO Pact. I don't think so and has the right to think so, I don't think Serbia should enter the NATO Pact. I don't think that's good and I don't think Serbia should be defined as a member of NATO's pact and point. That's my opinion, and I have the right to do that. Also, Serbia will not be a member of the ODKB. Serbia will have observer status. About how Kosovo is defended, I hope that we will get to the point that no military force will have to defend Serbs in Kosovo, but they will have a normal life because we will fight for it. You can ask your colleagues in this assembly, who have done foreign affairs in a previous meeting, which means Resolution 1244 and who is helping Serbia most in the Security Council. Which are members of the Security Council who also, not by military force, but by force of diplomatic arguments, defend the position of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's a very important thing that we shouldn't forget. In all the documents called for by this Assembly, both this and the previous Government, Resolution 1244 was always highlighted. Always and that is what one firm guarantee is that we preserve Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia. If it wasn't for that resolution, no one would even ask us today. As for energy independence and what Russia asked us to do, I didn't sell anything to anyone, nor did my party. We didn't sell anything to anyone or anything. What we've been doing, we've been doing since my party took part in power, and what I'm trying to tell you is that these agreements today, like the South Stream, which today bypasses Ukraine for the reason that in the past she's had so much desire to stop the flow of gas, to raise the price and to condition the price. Today, Ukraine is not on that roadmap, and it will have to buy gas at more expensive prices compared to how it was before. A part of the South Stream arm will pass through Serbia, and we will therefore also have the strategic energy partnership, the possibility of losing oil gas from some other countries and the Russian Federation. We'll have options. As far as we're concerned, Russia didn't ask us to do anything. What can and can't be said by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not by the foreign ambassador. While I'm president of the National Assembly, no foreign ambassador will tell me what something in my country can or can't. With this I will come before you, and this people's congregation will say what it can and cannot do. What the National Assembly says will require that both this and every government in the future respect the will of the majority in the National Assembly. No government will be able to do that beyond that. As far as I'm concerned, I'm quite satisfied, and when I take a picture of myself being behind me as the flag of the Republic of Serbia, there doesn't have to be any more. I'm absolutely sure. As far as our strategic goal is concerned, it is to enter and be a full member of the EU. I still don't see, although you are constantly setting up this parity – if we become observers in the ODKB, almost, we cannot join the EU. That's not what anyone said or said. We're not jeopardizing anything by that. We enter as a parliamentary delegation, become observers in an organisation where Serbia has the opportunity to hear what other countries are doing, based on the principles they represent. As for all the contracts I conclude here, individual MPs have the right to make their views known, but we respect only what was adopted at the National Assembly session. In each of these documents, including in this co-operation related to the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre that is being built in Nis, we will respect what it says in the agreement adopted by the National Assembly and that is it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8516	The word is Marko Atlagic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8517	Dear Chairman, I believe that he has been violated and brutally, Article 104 and 107, which speaks of insults and dignity of the National Assembly. When the previous speaker called a whole group that she made an idiotic decision. I truly believe that we MPs in this congregation have overcome that dictionary, that we speak to one another. The same from that parliamentary group insulted and misread me in the previous part. Let me just say we didn't get along so well. In fact, participation in these parliamentary groups...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8518	Mr. Atlagic, you didn't get the right to a replica. You can only explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8519	Just one sentence to finish. Therefore, participation in parliamentary groups wants the neutrality of each other, co-operation with the East and the West. As the Holy Sava said, some thought we were the West in the East and the East in the West. And nothing else. Please, I know I said that... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8520	Mr. Atlagic, please. You said I hurt Article 104. A Rules of Procedure that regulates the replica. Your argument has nothing to do with Article 104. [[Marko Atlagic, from the place: It is not a replica, but a violation of the Rules of Procedure.]] Yeah, but article 104 is about replication. It's a regular replica, and your argument really had nothing to do with that member of the Rules of Procedure. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8522	Replica to Mr. Stefanovic. Before that to Mr. Atlagic, I assume you meant what Saint Sava said. You, Mr Stefanovic, first of all, is not true that your political party did not participate in the sale, since the parliamentary groups then have already advanced Serbia, if I remember well, the SRS, not to enter into which party it was in the autumn and winter of 2008, voted in favour of ratification of the energy agreement with Russia. Then three special contracts came out, I think they were eventually analysed by Mr. Borislav Stefanovic, who is here. On the basis of them, the government is exclusively within those frameworks that you MPs have set, so by the agreement you voted for, which you ratified here, Serbia has decided to have at least 49% owned by NIS Gazprom, and that the Russian side has at least 51%. So, it is not the executive power at the time, or at least guilty to the same extent that their MPs, as your MPs did, voted in favour of the document. I don't know if Mr. Arsic can remind you of that time, he remembers this time with much more sweet reminence in 2001, 2002. That's what happened only four years ago. It's just important, I'm surprised you forgot. You didn't say maybe to give us gifts, you told us loans that give us both east and west and investments that give us east and west. It is not common in business or legal practice to mark credit as giving. Credit is a legal business that involves bilateral predetermination or act. (President: Time. ) So, on our part, we pay interest, or we give some other service or benefit, and in the disproportionate proportions of these favors, that is, the store is here and running. It's my biggest remark on what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8523	Thank you. The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8524	What's the point, and it's good that you mentioned, the very essence of the South Stream, is that everyone else had to give something, invest and pay for the South Stream to go through their territory, to increase the value of the project, except for Serbia, which was given the agreements that were useful for free. That's what's good. I didn't know Mr. Stefanovic was involved in this, but if he is, that's a good thing. If there was then a political will, I am sure there is a good political will for this good economic co-operation to continue in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8525	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8526	The Honorable Chairman, under Article 107, the previous speaker in the previous speech, whether or not he sees an SRS, I am a member of the SNS here and I was certainly not a member of that party that passed those laws, the regulations he talks about, so I ask him to keep an eye on that SNS, and the ties he has with the SNS that are not obliged to bear in the form of a vision, unlike those which have been in this House for several thousand years as some two, three groups of other committees that have several convened in this Assembly. I'm a few months old, so I'm asking that the SRS be separated from the SNS and the other members of this party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8527	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that the Progressive Group voted in favour of Serbia's energy agreement, and it is also true that it voted in favour of the EU accession agreement. It is also true that the former SNS president today is president of the Republic of Serbia in the 2008 campaign, and also in this 2012 campaign, he said he wanted to co-operate with both the West and the East. And the SNS keeps its pre-election promises. Just because one part of the people who ran the SRS then wanted us to give up our pre-election promises, it fell apart. Unlike some who made pre-election promises, say, in 2000, promised seven billion dollars in donations we've never seen, unlike those who promised bigger salaries and a better standard of living, and 12 years after those promises, let's see how we live, see how many employees we have, how many we've been cheated on, and what kind of situation we've been in, and what kind of economy we're in now. I can say that now the economy and Serbia are devastated by an irresponsible policy for which the heirs of one part of the DS are depicted as LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8529	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8530	I have been mentioned twice, once in the context of the role I played as an authorised negotiator of the Government of the Republic of Serbia during two jobs – the sale of NIS and the South Stream and Banatski Dvor gas storage arrangements, to be exact. I'm glad the president of the assembly praised me in that regard. Here's why. I have to say, just because there's this misunderstanding here, but it's all about the broader context of whether or not we should be observers in collective security. The job was done, as you know, after a political deal, but it turned out very quickly that the negotiations had been deleted from the economic negotiations, because the Russian side estimated NIS at an even four times lower price than the one agreed in Moscow. That's what I have to say in the Serbian Parliament. So, in the end, we got a 500m-euro price and investment, in a situation where your coalition partner wanted to break the deal, with a desire to sell it to a Western company, as you know very well. The stories of something worth a billion, two, eight, not true, if you look at the papers. It's about that. As far as joining issues are concerned as observers of the organisation and collective security arrangements, I must say for the public two things, to correct myself. First, we asked the Foreign Affairs Committee for a statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, because we considered it, and now we argue, that it is part of the country's single foreign policy in which parliament plays a significant role when it decides on parliamentary delegations, if not crucial, but that the Government must make a statement. (President: Time. We've been rejected. That is why the majority on the Committee, without a statement from the Government, voted in such a way, and none of us deserved to abuse it and bring out the names of the MPs that they were against, quote, an alliance with the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8531	Thank you. The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8532	Let me tell you, about what you last said. I will always stand up as Parliament's president, and it will be a practice, to announce everything that in this assembly anyone votes on anything. It is something that is completely normal and will always be known in parliament. I didn't say you had anything against it. I'm just saying, since there have been some questions, I will always try to make sure that the public finds out who, in which committee or National Assembly's session voted on anything, unless the National Assembly or Committee decides to put that part of the session under any kind of confidentiality mark, there are different committee sessions, so it's not available to the public. As far as that goes, I made it clear that you can look for a political explanation any way you want. You can try to escape the plea. You can try not to plead for any political reason, so you don't decide this or that, so you may not have to explain some things, but as far as this goes, I was very specific. Those MPs who voted against did not vote against whether to deliver an opinion or not. The question to which was voted was clear – who is in favour of Serbia agreeing to be a member of the Parliamentary Assembly in the ODKB? MPs who voted against voted against said they were not for partnership in this sense with the Russian Federation. I think it's quite clear. Whether some of them will change their minds later or not, it's their private matter now, but those people who voted against were against it, and those who were in favor were in favour. I don't think there's anything controversial about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8533	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8534	I fully support your ambition, Mr. Stefanovic, to make public the results of the vote. This may help Mr. Arsic in the future not to make such notorious political mistakes, as he has now done, arguing that representatives of the Prosperity Club voted Serbia for ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Are you sure you voted yes? You didn't vote "yes", you were abstentioned, you pulled over then, not crossing over, fighting over who signed the blank resignation or didn't sign a blank resignation. For days, this farce in the magistrate and around the magistrates lasted. In the end, you did not vote for ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It wasn't enough for you that the LDP did everything at the time to pass the amendment that you proposed at some point, which would give you a political exit or a political platform to change your current radical policy in the beginning. We supported your amendment. In the end, you decided not to vote for ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, for the energy agreement that it produced, among other things, and these effects that were spoken of here, you voted with both your left and your right hand. As for your remarks, Mr. Stefanovic, that all other countries had to give something that the South Stream was passing through their country without us, I don't know how you explain your thesis. It's exactly the opposite. No other countries gave 51% of the natural wealth called the underground warehouse. That's what Serbia did compared to Banatski Dvor. Other countries didn't have to buy at full non-market prices pillows and every other gas to fill that warehouse, but it had to do Serbia. Other countries did not have to hand over the majority stake in their oil company, but had to do so by Serbia. (President: Time. ) I don't know what it's like in other countries, but South Stream Serbia, which is supposed to implement the procedure, is not even registered in Serbia, as far as I know, but is registered in Guco, Switzerland.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8535	Mrs. Kolundjia, on what grounds are you answering? According to the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8536	Madam Chairman, I think you have injured Article 107, allowing, now I do not know in what capacity, MP Stefanovic, to present facts that are not correct. It is clear to all of us that voting in all bodies of the National Assembly is public. That's not what we're getting at at all. Of course, it is public and we are not ashamed of any decision behind which we have left behind, nor of decisions on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, so as not to support the SRS initiative, taken by the SNS, to send to the ODKB an observation delegation of the Serbian Parliament, and we have clearly explained why we are against it. What is an abuse of the speaker's position is that he said at a press conference that the DS is against co-operation with Russia, which is incorrect. That's the roughest lie. That's why we asked that you, if anything, at least say that you didn't think so and that you thought that we were against this alliance, but that you didn't think that we were against co-operation with Russia, because we're not against co-operation with Russia, which we proved in the past, for now, much more effective than you are. We'll see what that cooperation looks like in the future. (President: Mrs Kolundzija, you are replicating Mr Stefanovic's exposure. I am not replicating, but I am warning that abuse has been committed here, which really undermines the reputation of the National Assembly. It can't be claimed that now the new president, of course, wants everything to be public, and we've been hiding how we voted, so now he wants to announce how we voted. It's about him forging our decision. We voted against the decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8537	Please, Mrs. Kolundjia, you have drawn my attention that the dignity of the National Assembly should be respected, and I ask that you too respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and of course all MPs present in the hall. The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8538	First of all, it's absolutely incorrect that I made anything up, I was telling the whole truth. Here in this assembly there was a vote from Bodrum. That's how it was voted in this assembly and the citizens of Serbia know it. They won't vote from Thessaloniki or Bodrum in this assembly of the National Assembly, and we can go back to all that, I don't mind. What's the paper and it's never happened before is that after every session of the National Assembly, you have on the National Assembly site that it was announced that after a day of voting that the MP of the National Assembly voted for any bill, whether it was for, against or abstention. Every session. That's never been before. It's the first time now. After each session, you also have a full stenogram of what anyone said at the session and can take over. It's an absolute newspaper. When I talked about it, I talked about it. I didn't say your party was completely opposed to co-operation with Russia in every aspect. I just said that in terms of this, you disagreed with Russia, because that's the attitude of the Russian Federation. That's my interpretation. You voted against the decision to form a parliamentary assembly of the ODKB and I said so. It's totally like that. I think it's clear now what my intention was to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8539	Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8540	I believe in Mr Stefanovic's ambition and I advertise a member of the Rules of Procedure who says MPs who are not in the O.R. must not be inserted. At the moment, there are some cards of those MPs that have not been inserted in the SNS MP lines. I'm just asking you to solve this problem so that the situation of Bodrum or Thessaloniki doesn't arise. It's great, Mr. Stefanovic, that all the results of the vote are in place. It would be great to have both of those results of Saturday's vote, when the parliamentary majority adopted a bill on amendments and amendments to the Budgetary System Act, and this from the second time, when you corrected a technical error.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8541	I'm asking professional services to take the cards out of units where MPs don't sit. The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8542	I am sorry that you did not list a member of the Rules of Procedure and that you violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If you don't know which member you have to look at, I'm sorry, you have to look at it, that's the Rules of Procedure. As for the vote, look at the Rules of Procedure again. In the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the essential, essential part or, let's say, at least a very important part, each vote, the declaration of results by the president or the chairman of the National Assembly. Until the result of the vote is declared and it is not just a simple reading of the results on the monitor, until the result of the vote is declared, the vote is not finished. Of course, I point to anyone who thinks we're wrong, there are mechanisms of protection in this country, in which you can act and make sure that what I'm saying is true. By the way, I couldn't agree more on the cards. I absolutely support you. And today, some MPs of your parliamentary group had cards that were inserted. We have video, and if you insist on it, I'll call the service to return the video and show it to you. I ask the service to provide video of the hall today's session and internal security, to round up those MPs' cards exactly, in fact, to look at from the system that wasn't there the moment the cards were there. I'd be happy to do that. I fully support you that all MPs who are in the O.R. can have their cards inserted. Those who are not there should not have their cards inserted, so that we never doubt whether the MP is really there or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8543	Mr. Stefanovic, on what basis are you answering? By the replica? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8544	Because of the replica, but it's been a long time. (President: I don't remember you being mentioned, but please replicate. I'm sorry, every time I asked for a word neatly. Allow me, because I think President Stefanovic addressed me very directly, but that was about 12 minutes ago. I have to say something about one thing you've noticed well. It's true that this home used to vote, as you say from Bodrum. The Democratic Party has withdrawn certain consequences and these people are no longer in the DS. The more the man who voted from Bodrum, the more he is now a member of the SNS. As for this other one you said when you spoke to me, I need to underline something. Now they tell me he's in the SPS. Maybe the SPS, don't let the SPS be offended. I'm sure his expertise will benefit you. There was never a problem in the public vote, nor will there be. It's good to go more and more in that direction. But the interpretation given, caused by a journalist's question or by an unprovoked journalist's question, was a leadership for you, President Stefanovic, exclusively for political benefit and for the scrutinizing interest, that the political opponent is pummeling for something that absolutely does not stand. What you just said to the press that way, I wouldn't say a word to you. If you'd said they disagreed with the Russian Federation in this matter, as you have now stated, I'd say you're right. The problem is, it's not said like that. That's what we talked about, remember... (President: Time. I think it's a harsh abuse and an attempt to figure out and say -- these people are against it, these people are, as they said, against war, against corruption and against crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8545	Mr. Stefanovic, your time is up. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8546	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't think this gentleman is a member of the SNS. Otherwise, as I recall, he was banned from politics for some time. I also remember that at the time, the head, or president of the DS parliamentary group, or the rest of the DOS, was Mr. Bojan Pajtic, who sat down from Neda Arneric just a meter or two. It is not possible that he did not know and it is not possible that the heads of the parliamentary groups do not know how many MPs there are in the Assembly Group. It is not possible to use one card without knowing that there is a voting and decision-making quorum. Now this gentleman is the president of the province government. So much for how you take care of the way decisions are made in the Serbian Parliament. Also, just because he had to know all of this, Mr Pajtic was then to resign as the president of the parliamentary group, which he did not. That's the difference between you and me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8547	I ask the MPs that we should return to the agenda. I'm obliged to tell you that. To get back to the agenda point, I interrupt all the lines. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8548	Article 27, Art. 106th and 107th. I don't know what basis you gave Mr. Stefanovic, and then he answered me for something I didn't say at all. I didn't say the Rules of Procedure were broken. I just said, so to put it figuratively, that parliamentary majority MPs are not enough for the 15 seconds Mr Stefanovic is talking about to clearly articulate their political stance, so they make a mistake when they vote, and then the vote has to be extended beyond those 15 seconds so that they can make the key to the decision behind their political party. That's all I said. You, Mr. Arsic, I can see that you remember the events of 2003 much better than in 2008 when you became a progressive and I have no doubt that you still prefer those times. Every day you're here, you're taking it out on them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8549	Mr Đurić, I gave the word to Mr Stefanovic in accordance with Article 96(1) of the first indent 1 – the proposer, or the authorised representative of the group of motionaries of the act, gets the word when requested and does not refer to a restriction on the duration of the presentation. On that basis, I gave my word. We're going back to the agenda. Who else wants to go after the Rules of Procedure? Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8550	Madam Chairman, you've injured Article 106. The fact that you gave your word to Mr Arsic and that he didn't speak at all about the subject of the agenda shows only that you have different criteria on the one hand and on the other, that you allow that depending on whether it belongs to the ruling majority or to the opposition here to discrimination against the MPs. The fact is, DS paid the political price for everything she did, and we live with it peacefully. At the same time, at a time when DS was in power about what was true, courts determined. The court found out who was responsible for the absence of the MP at the time of the vote. (President: Mrs. Kolundjia, you have reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure and please do not replicate the previous speaker. I completely understand about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and if you'll allow me to explain why... I just want to say... You have to make sure that you do not allow previous speakers to present insults and false qualifications, and then not allow them to answer that question, just that, please. If we're equal, then don't let them insult the opposition party, bring up lies for the representatives of those parties, and then don't let the party's representative replicate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8551	Since you asked for the word not for the replica, but for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I only warned you to give an explanation for the injury of the members you advertised. I will now answer you – Article 104, paragraph 2, says – if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply. On that basis, Mr. Arsic had just received the right to a replica. We're going back to the agenda. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8552	The President-in-Office, fellow MPs, I really don't remember, although I have long been in parliament that this way has ever been discussed with the formation of an international parliamentary delegation. We have been discussing security issues all day since 10:00 this morning and it is very interesting how the debate in the afternoon and part of the afternoon session was under way when civil and military missions related to the EU were discussed, as praises were heard, one atmosphere of enthusiasm, and for the past two hours, we are surely attending something very strange. I could call it almost obstruction, discuss the important decision of the RS, which is the formation of a parliamentary delegation. I can agree that it is legitimate, those who argue that Serbia should have been quick to step up, perhaps already a NATO member of the pact through such a discussion, in fact trying to either obstruct or in any way secure this event, which is the formation of a parliamentary delegation. It's legitimate, but that's how it should be presented. When a debate was being held on forming a parliamentary delegation to NATO's Partnership for Peace Pact, all parliamentary parties were more or less without discussion supporting it by considering everyone at the time, and I believe most today believe that Serbia's presence in the Partnership for Peace is something that is in Serbia's interest. There have been many qualifications or individual views that indicate that certain things are either not known about the ODKB itself or have deliberately avoided the debate on the nature of the international organisation, the objectives and potential benefits that RS has as an observer within the organisation. The start came from an idea, one claim that the presence or this decision that Serbia is to make, the National Assembly, is the product of a political party's proposal. It's just that that's not true, and I listened carefully for three hours to make that claim. Serbia received an invitation to be an observer of the ODKB, as it received an invitation to be in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of the Partnership for Peace Pact. Serbia's call to be an observer at the KDKB Parliamentary Assembly was sent by Russian President DumaBoris Grizzlov in 2010. It's to clarify the facts. What created the problem in the previous two years, and I want to call it the real name - the classic obstruction to make this decision, is to keep it quiet. The former president of the NS RS kept silent, and the parliamentary majority kept silent. A variety of political parties, including the DS, have persistently insisted that the issue be put on the agenda and at the end of the line to make a decision. Now we have a paradoxical situation. The ruling majority then ran away from the decision and the parties that were then fleeing the decision are now for a decision not to join the organisation. I'd really like to hear the reasons. The parliamentary majority kept quiet, the president kept quiet, the government kept quiet, the Ministry of Defence kept quiet, that's a fact. It is good that after two years, this point, which the President of the Russian Dume's initiative, was found in the National Assembly, I believe that the parliamentary majority will decide that Serbia will join and become an observer at the KDKB Parliamentary Assembly. Our MP group today during the debate when the Prime Minister, Defence Minister, Mr. Vukic, was here today, said it was a step that confirms Serbia's political neutrality. The previous period is marked next to politics that the EU has no alternative to security co-operation. Another attitude or other doctrine that has been formed has been marked, which is that NATO has no alternative. All other co-operations with all other international security organisations have been excluded. Only co-operation with the NATO Pact has been declared RS's highest interest. We are talking here about what the DSS was saying then and what we now think – that in order to strengthen our security position, in order to strengthen the capabilities of the RS military, to establish stronger military-technical co-operation, in order to speed up and develop our dedicated industry, Serbia needs to co-operate with all international security organisations without membership and in one of these organisations. As we said Serbia should not be a member of the NATO Pact, we believe that Serbia should not be a member of the collective security agreement organisation. Co-operation and obtaining the opportunity to through military-technical co-operation, through the application of standards that have proved to be high-quality, as successful, that our army strengthens its operational capabilities is something I don't see the problem of asking this question. Here it was debated in the desire to disqualify this large, important international organisation of values and values that exist within that organisation. All those who are invited to do so would be invited to read the founding act, but impartially, and the agreement on the establishment of the ODKB and the concept of collective security brought by this organisation. Should Serbia approach or not join an organisation that respects the UN Charter, which respects the territorial integrity of all states, which advocates peaceful resolution of international disputes, which seeks to establish co-operation with all international organisations dealing with security, by the OSCE, and in co-operation with the NATO Pact, which wants all international disputes resolved within the UN, which opposes the spread of nuclear weapons, which opposes illegal trafficking in human beings, illegal migration, drug trafficking, the fight against terrorism, which promotes international law? Are these the values Serbia needs to support, which this organisation defines in its founding acts? I think you should. We've heard here that someone was grading the degree of democracy in certain states. You know, we are witnessing that in different ways political accounts against individual countries are being conducted by using different international organisations, that democracy is being criticised in these countries, that human rights are being criticised, and in order to weaken these countries, and that their position in the international community would be shaken. We believe that, to a large extent, there are biases in these qualifications, and that the countries that are members of the ODKB, by being members of the UN, by being members of the OSCE, by being members of the Security Council, meet all the criteria concerning both democracy and human rights. Therefore, such an easy move towards those qualifications can talk about political or ideological acuity or the desire to say that Serbia should belong at any cost to a military bloc. That's what this is about. This is a debate on whether Serbia should be an observer in an international military organisation. All the discussions we heard, which are against it, if things are properly observed, are that Serbia should be in another international organisation, in the NATO Pact. That's what some colleagues brought out here. Confirmation of Serbia's military neutrality is something we need beyond us, the need to co-operate with countries that have improved their military industry to a large extent and compatible with ours, due to a long period of time when we belonged to an ideological political system, the need to achieve co-operation in the area of modernising our military industry. All this can be achieved in co-operation with the countries belonging to the KDKB. It is that Serbia wants to improve its military co-operation with countries without having to be a member, without need, as colleagues here have said, that it is bound by a mutual assistance agreement. The contract exists in the NATO Pact Charter, the contract exists also in provisions concerning European security of foreign policy and exists in one such organisation. As Serbia should not be a member of any of the three organisations, it will not oblige it. That's something to point out. I want to say once again, that some basic information is given, although I think my colleague Lasslo Varga said it, he's really well aware, he's prepared for this discussion, with a series of data relating to the ODKB contract. It was founded in 1992, which consists of seven members – the Russian Federation, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Armenia, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan. So these countries decided to establish stronger co-operation in the areas of security and defence and the areas of the military industry and co-operation in the area of military capacity development. In that sense, I believe that the experiences that these countries have had are certainly something that we, as an observer, could get. In the coming period, I expect that agreements or announcements of the agreement, which are specifically Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Defence and Vice-President of the Russian Government, Mr. Rogozin, will be achieved in the area of modernising our military technique, and that Serbia will, by this act itself, be able to be an observer, have open markets of countries that are extremely important and that can become serious importers of what we produce within the dedicated industry. Therefore, we strongly support this decision. The Democratic Party of Serbia has advocated this over the past years. We don't think she'll harm our position of military neutrality. We think it will strengthen it, because in the previous period, as I said, this security co-operation was focused solely on co-operation with NATO, which can be called true isolation, not on co-operation with a large number of countries in the area of security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8553	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8554	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS will vote against this decision and I would especially like to stress that, in order not to again be victims of abuse and political disqualification, we have advocated and we have advocated in the past and we believe that it is of interest for Serbia to have intense economic, political and any other ties with the Russian Federation. I think we proved that in the previous period when we exercised power and we will prove that by participating in everything that contributes to deepening that co-operation, as an opposition party. What's being asked here as a question is a few things. When we discussed participation in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, a serious debate was previously held, the government of the Republic of Serbia declared this, the defence ministry said. At the time, we had one political agreement on this, which was the necessary and institutional consensus that is necessary for Serbia to make such important decisions, such as the decision of observation status in a military-security alliance. The fact that this decision has been made in the manner in which it was made, so that the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, without the previous opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence, has made a decision and has proposed to the Assembly to form this delegation shows or, on the one hand, that this decision has been made under great pressure, we ask ourselves whose pressure it is, and how it is assessed that it would have to make such a decision, or that there is a government policy that differs from the policy defined by this decision. If the government is not prepared to stand behind this decision, we ask the question, under the Constitution, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for policymaking and policymaking, both foreign and security. If so, then we rightly, as we asked on the Committee, ask that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, be made aware of this decision, because if the policy of the Government is European integration, then the question is really asked – is making this decision sufficiently reflected in the aspect of achieving Serbia's basic strategic goal, which is joining the EU? Is making this decision necessary to deepen economic, political and other relations with the Russian Federation? Is this a condition for something we don't see now, and the motionary's representative won't tell us? Is this the way in which Serbia will lead a policy in which the government will be fenced from Parliament's decisions and say -- that's what the Assembly has decided, we haven't even discussed it, so they will justify themselves in front of their Western friends, who are asking for support for the continuation of European integration? On the other hand, the Russian Federation will be spoken – see, we are more fond of you, for the congregation has made such a decision. A policy like this has never benefited anyone. I'm absolutely sure it won't bring the Republic to Serbia either. On the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we asked to make a statement, i.e. the Government to declare whether this decision is in agreement with the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy. To remind one more time, one of the colleagues who spoke earlier spoke about it, this congregation brought these two extremely important strategies. In a strategic sense, they have defined Serbia, including its alliances, especially in the area of security and national defence. So that strategy defined Serbia. If we have not received an answer from the Government and the Ministry whether this decision is in agreement with these strategies, then the question is whether by making this decision, the National Assembly will decide which is contrary to these strategies, on the one hand, or whether if the National Assembly makes a decision that is contrary to the strategy, a new strategy must come into the Assembly, or an amended strategy in which an unequivocally unequivocal possibility will be opened for Serbia to participate in such a military alliance? What is the key thing here and why the DS cannot really support this decision further, and I will explain why we gave our representative to this delegation, so that there would be no abuse and on this issue, that our participation in this delegation is actually accepting a decision on this delegation. What is really a big question is, can it be said that Serbia has a single foreign and defence policy, if the government is leading a policy and the first Deputy Prime Minister is asking the ambassador, or the Secretary of State of the United States to remain NATO in Kosovo, and on the other hand, parliament is making such a decision that may harm the efforts of the Deputy Prime Minister to achieve what he asked in Washington? The Democratic Party has given its representative to this delegation for at least two reasons. One reason is because DS, unlike some parties that are in the past, and then have changed and behave differently, acted by boycotting the work of the National Assembly authorities on one hand, so we think that it is the responsibility of each MP to participate in all the bodies and bodies of the National Assembly and that it is the responsibility of all the parliamentary groups that have been elected to this Parliament to participate in the work of all the bodies and delegations of the National Assembly. That's the first reason. The second reason why we decided to give our representative to this delegation, although we will not vote for this decision, is the fact that as far as the delegation's composition is concerned, we have a serious fear. We were also at a time when we were representatives of the parliamentary majority in our ranks and had representatives of opposition parties that were particularly anti-NATO, so they had their representatives in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. They were highly opposed to Europe, so they had their representatives at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and tried intensively there to fight for their narrow party policies, regardless of what was the official state policy, often causing damage to the state they represented there. Our intention is to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia and to represent that policy that the government officially advocates, as long as it is a policy that we see as a continuity and an extension of the policy led by the previous government, which is related to European integration and is related to Serbia's relationship with military alliances. These are the two basic reasons why we decided to give our representative, because we have a legitimate fear of obtaining information that is not true, to get a beautiful picture of what that delegation does there and what attitudes it represents. Once again, I think it's a serious problem when the National Assembly makes a decision like this without previously having a view of the government. This is an important strategic decision. The one who doesn't see it today, perhaps, as the Deputy Prime Minister said today – then I didn't realize it, and now I realize how important it is, also one day, to come to this Parliament and say – when we made this decision I didn't realize how important it was and could be problematic for the country, but now I understand and I am ready to change that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8555	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8556	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unusual for us to speak in this way about a decision to form a parliamentary delegation that participates as an observer. I'm not fascinated by any government, and at least I'm fascinated by the idea that the Assembly can't do anything unless the government has given its opinion. The other way around, I guess, it should be, but good. This kind of discussion is ideal for us to create an illusion that there are diametrically opposite differences and that certain political parties who have a complete opinion about it are being identified. It's about a common decision. Let me first correct the inaccuracies. I don't think they're intentional, but people just forget what happened a year, two, three or four years ago. Serbia has never asked for the Serbian government's opinion, nor had it needed to become an observer in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. There are many reasons. When Serbia-Montenegro, the so-called state, Serbia had no president at the time, its parliament did not make that kind of decision, it was all decided at the level of Serbia-Montenegro, and Serbia, therefore, was important when it became an independent state on June 6th 2006, inherited it, and there are right many who spoke today, all of which were represented as the current position or the current opposition, said that when entering any organisation, in whatever status you also assume compliance with the organisation's rules. One of the rules is, for example, in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, that the status of observers grows to be a permanent member by an act of receiving a country that has a delegation as an observer in the Partnership for Peace and, therefore, it is necessary only to make a formal request within 30 days of that moment. Why do I remind you of this? Because at the moment it was done, because Serbia, thank God, became a member of the Partnership for Peace, sent such a request, and then I also attended the hypocrisy of political statements – how come now some right, with which the right Assembly, is pushing the state of Serbia to be a permanent member of a parliament, and it is simply a formal act? For this reason, I must now ask Mr Stefanovic because he is a similar problem ahead of us, whether he is the promoter of this decision as the President of the National Assembly or only as a National MP, because the iconography of this part of the session has also provoked, with the right or not, many. Mr Stefanovic, if, as president of the National Assembly, in accordance with your obligations, you have taken the initiative to propose to the Assembly, so the decision and composition of the delegations that will follow, my opinion is, don't get me wrong, you are both a young man and a young MP, which I think is neither a virtue nor a flaw, but I have already talked about this subject several times. In that case, it would have been very good if you had sat down for other promoters because you would have made it easier for iconography to represent such an attitude. In the opposite case, it would also be nicer and easier if a whole series of those who would support this decision, which is certainly not one party, not one parliamentary group, to be signatories to such a proposal, and then you would make it easier for yourself and others. My question is – if this is the kind of proposal, and so I realized that the President of the Assembly is taking on himself, which is very good, that a majority initiative where there are all formal preconditions, which is from the call being made, seems to me that Mr Palalic reminded it in 2010 and that is Mr Palalic's usual deadline, do not blame the previous government or Parliament so much. So it usually goes through a year to two of one of those calls while around it, especially if you have an election cycle, until there's a statement. In that case, it would be very polite not to use arguments that only confuse citizens because we do not even use them for the election of members of parliamentary delegations in other congregations. Nobody says what Serbia and its parliamentary delegation will say, in the PS Orthodox countries when both Catholics and Protestants and Muslims and Jews and other religions live in our country. Of course he doesn't ask. No one asks what we do in any other parliamentary assembly. Why? Because there is a fundamental value if you are somewhere in the role of observers, and especially if you are a member, you simply have the opportunity to for your country, and precisely thanks to the different composition of delegations, by the way, be told, to correct here something that confuses people. It is not true that whoever is leading the ruling majority ensures that someone who is otherwise against the EU is in a parliamentary delegation or who is against the CoE to be in a parliamentary delegation. No, it's an obligation. When you have a delegation there, then you must accept that all parliamentary groups represented in your assembly will be represented in that delegation. It's your responsibility. So it's not a matter of good faith. On this basis, the congregations, the ones that really represent the whole state, because the state has no one opinion, and at least it has the opinion of one government or the current government. As a result, the congregation is the highest body. The status of observers is always welcome in every organization, that country that seeks to obtain as much information as possible, as much information as possible about what is a trend in a group of countries with which the host country, in this case, which sends a delegation, would like to achieve different relations. That doesn't mean she'll make it. That doesn't mean she'll take the next step. That doesn't mean that she'll benefit enough in this case for her armed forces, security forces, security processes. You know what this depends on - the ability of the land. It also depends on the changes that will follow in that organization. I fully understand the part of the MPs who have their own political interest or fear or information based on the process that took place in other organisations of this type and their history that there are steps that may challenge the need, so we may also regret what we did the first step, but that applies to every organization. Especially for each organisation of a larger number of countries, and especially for the organisation of a larger number of countries where there is one country that is an undeniable leader. That's so clear. None of this is an argument against. I suppose that in this assembly, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and by the way, when it comes to it, we often regret how MPs are treated both in the Assembly and outside and in the media, and we are a little bit guilty, we allow, watch the news, nobody says – the bank of Serbia, immediately – the National Bank of Serbia, as if there is another bank of Serbia, but they regularly say – the Serbian Parliament, though enough to say – the National Assembly, because there is no other National Assembly. The way we refer to it symbolically as well as the way we present it is the iconography that I'm talking about, the iconography means something else, that we don't interfere, someone here thought it quotes St. Sava which is otherwise impossible, but he quoted something that a literary character in a branch said, and this character is called St. Sava. When we make this kind of decision, we actually empower a group of people who really represent this assembly and therefore it is necessary to participate as many of the relevant parties and its representatives in such a assembly, to take care of what is symbolic, what is iconography and what are facts in one organization, looking at the processes of that organisation and its activities, to help Serbia benefit from this. As far as I know, it is never known to me personally, but as far as I know, the URS parliamentary group will certainly vote for this decision because it will vote for any decision in which Serbia, through a composition that is representative and such delegations of the National Assembly, is taking part in activities, either as an observer, or as a member, of all organisations that do not have anything in their basic documents to prevent us from breaking those documents in their activities so far. That's what we're gonna do anyway. Speaking of which, maybe we should correct a few more inaccuracies that have been heard, but maybe this isn't the time. Just one request. Since someone said that stenograms can now be read as credible evidence of what MPs say, think about it, it's a kind of abuse. The stenograms are used to make sure someone didn't say anything. Otherwise, stenograms can't take what you say because there's no irony in there, you can't read it. Here, please, there will be no replica to take you for example, Mr. Đuric has the custom of saying such sentences and he will say, when he wants to mock a minister, he will say – well, you are the best minister who suggested this first, let's say. What's it gonna say in the stenogram? They'll write praises, not irony. So the stenograms certainly aren't proof of what someone said, and I apologize to the ladies who are taking care of it now... (President: Please, Mr. Markovic, just get back to the topic. I agree it's not a topic. I'm just saying that these stenograms, now I'm warning those who might have thought of using them as evidence in newspaper texts, which is why I'm saying, these stenograms aren't authorized, they're full of mistakes and inaccuracy, and that doesn't say anything about these beautiful and valuable ladies they're working on, it's simply not possible, and especially with something that a man wants orally and not in writing to show, it's not possible to be adequate. Once again, and I will end this, I hope that this atmosphere that is now in government will reign until the end of the debate on these points of the agenda, because this kind of political bickering that this point has used certainly has no great purpose, no great purpose, no real consequences in the event of this decision being taken by Serbia as a state.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8557	MP Bojan Đuric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8558	I have to admit, I promised Mr. Markovic that I wouldn't answer, but I still couldn't assume that he would cross the border, to say the right interpretations. You can judge what I'm saying as ironic or not, there I wouldn't object, but you said at one point that I would speak in a certain way to a minister or a member of the government when I wanted to make fun of myself. I assure you that I have never had the ambition to mock anyone in this House, members of the government especially when they speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8559	Mr. Markovic, I will not give you the right to a replica to complete this agenda. Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been reported for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint Single Search on the motions for decisions under points 21 and 22 of the agenda. We move to the next item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and supplements of the Criminal Code, in particular. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Olgica Batić, Neđa Jovanovic, Ljuban Panić, Vesna Jovicki, Srdjan Sajn, Milica Radović, Milos Aligrudić, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petković, Jovan Palalić, Gordana Komić, Slobodan Homen, Srdjan Milivojević, Judita Popović, Vesna Marjanović, Snezana Stojanović Plašić, Vesna Kovac, Srdan Miković, Jelena Travar Miljević, Jožef Shandor, Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Pek, Ana Novaković, Rajko Stevanovic, Nenad Kitanovic, Saša Milenić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostrš Čizik, Olen Pazik, Olena Papuk, Oljna Papuž, Vladimir Miljić and Malaščić as well as well as well as well as the village of the state. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MP Olgica Batic, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 7 which was submitted at 15.10 p.m. on December 12th 2012. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8560	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. President of the Assembly, I really don't think it's right that today at 7:30 we start discussing amendments, this one of the most important laws on the agenda. I don't think that's correct because the MPs today are in the 8.30-hour assembly, and it's 11 hours since we've been working. Criminal code is a very important law. We need absolute concentration and we need rest to discuss the very important amendments that have been submitted to it. Please respect this argument and simply continue this debate to be scheduled for tomorrow morning. Of course, in addition to adding that we don't have a direct transmission and that the public is very interested in what changes and additions are scheduled and I think it would be correct to schedule this debate for tomorrow morning. I think the discussion will be very constructive and there is no reason to worry that tomorrow this point, as well as all others to which the amendments have been submitted, will not be completed by the end of the working day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8561	Thank you, I'm not worried. All I care about is that all the points that we have on the agenda and all those who expect us are the best way to say, adopted, as far as citizens' interests are concerned, but in the conversation with most MPs, they say they are not tired and can continue to work. A part of the MPs have their opinions, but I think we should continue the session and continue the session. Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8562	Article 27. Rules of Procedure, I don't mind you using it as a reference that you spoke to MPs, but this is one of the questions where consultations make sense if you consult parliamentary groups and when most parliamentary groups agree to work or not, you make a decision. Not enough MPs, the LDP parliamentary group agrees with the DSS initiative, we think that for many reasons, here is DS, Mr Konstantinovic confirms this, that we are talking about it in peace tomorrow. There are several very important amendments, very important issues that we need to clarify, and that is why we think it is better to interrupt the session at this point, and I believe that tomorrow, during the afternoon, we will be able to complete the debate on these amendments, and I think that's better.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8563	Of course, I don't share your opinion and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly is running a session of the National Assembly. I decide to move on and invite you to take part in the work. Mrs. Batic, would you like a word on your amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8564	Yes, I'm on my way home, so I'm back, I want to talk about my amendments, because this time is being abused by many parliamentary groups to some internal disputes. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 as well as to a number of members of this bill. I consider this amendment to be actually an amendment of a technical nature, because I believe that the proposed amendment and the proposed proposal is an inaccurately defined possibility at its disposal by the Republic Public Prosecutor. I believe that the proposed provision leaves room for a number of abuses, and since the bill's aim is identical to the objective of the amendment, and we do not dispute this goal, but we agree with it, and that is the only goal that goes in the direction of compliance with international agreements, then I think it is in the interest that such an amendment should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8565	National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8566	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I will briefly, given that I have given this explanation several times on the Committee on Justice, where my proposal for this amendment is supported. In particular, it is a mandatory probation with the maintenance of the prison sentence, bearing in mind that the obligation of parole in the now proposed amendments and additions of the Criminal Code, has included all perpetrators of the crimes, and those perpetrators of the crimes that have committed so-called crimes. a minor degree of criminal danger or a minor degree of social danger, compared to the perpetrators of crimes who have committed particularly serious crimes and under particularly difficult circumstances, not to speak of murders, brutal murders, pestilences with deadly consequences, violence with deadly consequences etc. These crimes have threatened the sentence of over 10 years in prison. I considered it celibate, fair, and especially fair to the damaged to be selected by applying mandatory parole exclusively to perpetrators of criminal acts for which there is a criminal code and criminal law prescribed a mildly threatened sentence due to a minor degree of social danger, and to make a selection, especially serious crimes, as we did in the Amnesty Act. There's absolutely nothing controversial about it, because that's the law we passed, that's where we voted it. If we were already able to do so in this law, then there was no reason why such an amendment would be supported, that the government would accept it, because in this group of perpetrators, the court must maintain discretionary law, whether parole will be allowed against those perpetrators or not, because both criminal policy and the general and special prevention oblige us to seriously consider this legal solution. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8567	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8568	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I support this amendment. I also voted for this amendment on the Committee on Justice and the entire Committee on Justice supported the amendment, precisely because it is absolutely in agreement with what we voted on, especially when the Amnesty Act was passed. In this regard, the amendment of MP Ljuban Panic, who accepted it, also suggested that there is no automaticism on parole, but that the court could suspend someone who is in custody. I think Mr. Neđa Jovanovic's amendment is well-numbered and extenuated in terms of certain crimes, what kind of punishment it is and what convictions it is. I think adopting that amendment will help to better regulate this matter and prevent any potential perpetrators from being stimulated if they know that they will receive parole under automation. If parole, practically, is applied by automation, it practically gives us another amnesty. That is why I believe that in certain matters it is especially important to determine whether there are conditions for parole, all in terms of fighting crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8569	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8570	Dear President, Mr. Minister, MPs, I would like to briefly support the amendment's proposal, our friend, Neda Jovanovic. I mean, when it comes to the bill on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminals, I have lawyers, and I respect that, I'm not a lawyer. I'm looking at this law from the point of view of the civil society, so I'm reporting here as a citizen. Article 46. The criminal code, until now, also envisioned parole, but it was in court that he would decide if the conditions were met, that he could, therefore, stand - that the court could grant parole. This time it is about the introduction of automatic parole, of course the same after two-thirds of the fine, and that is why the formulation is given in the bill – the court will. What does that mean? The court doesn't actually ask questions anymore. The court wondered when he was bringing it, when he found fault, when he was setting the fines. I must, simply like this, as a layman, point out that when a court finds guilty, when it determines punishment, it takes care of the purpose of punishment. So it must be kept in mind and the general purpose of criminal sanctions, but the purpose of punishment. If the court takes care, what is the purpose of the punishment? It all has to go on when it comes to parole. We think it's a better formulation – it can, than yes – the court will. Given the intensity of this law, our friend, Nejko Jovanovic, has very precisely stated what cannot be done by automation. So it could be a parole after two-thirds of the suspended sentence, but the court will be the one to determine it. So, the court can pass, no – the court will automatically bring, but - the court can bring parole for those acts, but by estimating, to use that folk term, its good conduct, guarantees that it will no longer do so, but that the image of punishment has been fulfilled. I don't want to, because I don't believe that the government wants to send a message to the public, to follow an automatic parole after two-thirds of the sentence. In other words, the punishment is not so much, but one third smaller. The court is only here to determine what someone delivers, whether it was nice or not, and it has nothing to do with it anymore. We don't think that's good. We believe that at least precisely these most difficult acts, let them enter the category so that they can be subject to parole, but that the court determines that the court can do so if the conditions are met. Let's not overlook the fact that when a court determines punishment, he sees the purpose of punishment, the social condemnation of how the moral meaning of what it is is, as I would say, a message to others not to commit crimes. I think there are enough arguments not to question the essence of these amendments to the Code of Criminals, because there are great solutions, there are great many solutions. I call upon you and ask you, Mr. Minister, to respect this amendment, to adopt it, so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8571	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8572	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is accepted, with a note that the technical error that has been made at the second point, where it stands, near the end, look at you: "... prescribed by the Criminal Code, or other laws which have ceased to apply. ", correct in the technical order. Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8573	Thank you. Mr. Konstantinovic, are you answering your question? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Konstantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8574	I am positively surprised by the government's willingness to accept the amendment of counterpart Jovanovic. We've been discussing these amendments on the board today, so there's been no hearing, so far so far. I would also like to say that the next amendment, which is very similar to this amendment, is an amendment submitted by counterpart Ljuban Panic, says that there should be absolutely no automatic parole. Why shouldn't there be automatic parole? We were all witnesses in this congregation, that the Law on Amnesty was passed, which reduced the penalties...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8575	I'm sorry, but it's the next amendment. This was Mr. Jovanovic's amendment. You're talking about the next amendment, Mr. Panic. I'm sorry, if I understood correctly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8576	We're not done with that. So we were all witnesses that the Amnesty Act was passed and that this law allowed to reduce prison sentences by 25%. Now a law is passed that says you can have an automatic parole after two-thirds of the sentence. So, someone who's been punished for 10 years, you cut him first two and a half years, and then you cut him out of those seven and a half years, two and a half more because he was well-dominated, and then he comes out after five years. I think it devises the purpose of punishment and completely blames what has been established criminal policy in the present period. Otherwise, I think the current ministry is going to ease the criminal policy, and we are strongly opposed to it. We don't think it's necessary to ease criminal policy. I therefore appeal to the minister that if he was willing to accept the amendment of counterpart Nedja Jovanovic to look at the next one. We didn't get to him. They will see that they are very similar and that he is making this more comprehensive and that he will consider accepting the amendment of counterpart Ljuban Panic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8577	MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8578	Dear President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Cosic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we should not object when the sittings are scheduled at half past eight. You may understand the essence of our proposals better than before noon, so I will always commend the work in these evenings, because it's good after lunch to think. I have a question I asked in principle and I'd like the minister to answer. There are people in this room who took part in the defense of the Hague indictees. There are people who have testified in The Hague. Whatever opinion we have on the UN tribunal or the International War Crimes Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia or on those people there, how will this parole law reflect the decision of the International Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to transfer Hague indictees and the possibility of these people serving a prison sentence in Serbia? In earlier contacts with the tribunal's people, they have repeatedly highlighted the issue of parole, although it is the fact that some people have received parole, but they have repeatedly asked that these people can be returned to Serbia but there is no parole. We know of cases of some Hague indictees who have been released abroad, that is, on parole, but will it make it impossible for these people to come to Serbia and have legal punishment here? That's my question. Maybe you can answer me now. Maybe you can answer me later. I just want to know if it's going to be a restriction or not when it comes to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8579	Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8580	Thanks for asking. If you read more carefully the amendment that we have just accepted, you will see that crimes against humanity and other goods protected by international law are subject to this academic parole. Therefore, what has been said in public during the debate on the principle of acceptance of this amendment has been absolutely eliminated.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8581	National MP Olga Batic. And just to support Mr. Milivojevic. You can see we gave the results if we're working later.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8582	Thank you very much. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, I, too, have submitted an amendment very similar to that of my fellow Members. In his presentation, Mr. Mikovic probably left it to point out, and Mr. Petronijevic explained my amendment better than his colleague Neđo Jovanovic explained it, so I will not particularly explain it. I think I said in principle what we are opposed to such mandatory parole because the purpose of criminal sanctions is not only in special but also in general prevention, and I think that if we are going to compare some amendments, then that amendment that I have submitted is closer to the amendment of my colleague Nedja Jovanovic than that of my colleagues, Tatic, who I will be very happy to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8583	National MP Ljuban Panic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I won't be much longer and I'm just saying, I just want to be on the trail of this debate, and what's one of the basic problems in our society is a mild criminal policy. This mild criminal policy is neither related to the current ministry, nor to the previous one is the tradition of the previous 20 years. Why is that? It's just a practice and it's an act of conduct. It has been shown that raising the minimum and maximum penalties provided for by the Criminal Code is not enough. As a result, the legislator's intensity has been and should be that, after the restriction, a penalty is given or cannot be imposed below the minimum, or if it is said to serve fully. I support, I would say, the amendment, although the amendment of my colleague Panic is better because he is seeking and proposing that there is no pronunciation, or automatic release after two-thirds of the sentence for any action, or that the court may decide in any case, or the court has no obligation. What's this about? I'll be very plastic. Under the bill of law reached us in the congregation if someone is sentenced to 30 years in prison, which is one of the most serious crimes, he will automatically serve only 20 regardless of any other extenuating circumstances to which the procedure may take place. In that sense, I think this is good. If the government has accepted the previous amendment, it narrows down the possibility of a reduction of penalties, but I think this is still a far better solution, precisely because we will also be witnessing a very mild criminal policy in the future. On the other hand, I would have to commend the co-operation that is being achieved tonight in parliament and today, during the day of several key amendments that we have proposed, and of which two have been accepted on the Committee on Justice, so that as far as I am concerned, there remains another amendment that I will insist on, but if such a policy is the ruling majority, I think it is something that I can personally vote on. I'll talk about that amendment later. I think this shows not only the constructiveity but also the constructiveity of the ruling majority. I think with good work together, I can come up with a quality bill. I support this previous amendment, although the one I'm talking about is not adopted, I think it's a serious step forward from the basic text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8585	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8586	Thank you. Once again, I'm going to confirm that I'm going to vote for the proposal, regardless of what the ministry has just accepted it. I already mentioned Mr. Nedjo Jovanovic. I will also vote in favour of the amendment of my colleagues from DS Ljuban Panic, so I hope they will vote in favour of mine, although I am not a member of the Justice Committee, unfortunately, and I also think that the constructiveity of the opposition exists independently of whether or not someone's amendment is adopted. I've put up with the amendment. None of them have been adopted, but I'll continue to pursue a goal I've already stated, which is only constructive.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8587	The word is Nenad Constantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8588	I want to ask the minister to answer us, since he has not explained in any way why the amendment of his colleague Panic is not accepted, and the explanation we received from the government is practically prescribed, one explanation for various amendments, to tell us why he advocates automatic parole? I'll do it again. Someone who has been sentenced to 10 years in prison has already been reduced by an amnesty for two and a half years, and this law reduces by two and a half years and it comes out after five years. Why does the government advocate such a principle and why you do not accept the amendment that there is simply no parole for anyone but the court will assess whether there are reasons or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8589	It's more than simple, buddy. If you look a little better at the practice of developed European countries, we have recently found that the problem of judicial practice is the first time in Serbia to give mild penalties. Do we agree on that? In developed European countries, regulated legal systems have a very present automatic parole. Look at the developed countries of the West, the EU, and you'll see to it. It's one of the ways in which courts are stimulated by resorting to stricter criminal policies. This very approach we have now is an approach based on what is the anomaly of our judiciary, which is to express constantly in most cases a milder penalty. Look at how it's done in these countries. On the one hand, that's one reason. The second reason is, and you find that as a man of profession, an experienced lawyer certainly knows, is also the fight against corruption in the judiciary. You have so far had something very pronounced in Serbia. If lawyers are good with judges, you get a parole for which the judge may, according to his discretionary judgment, allow or not allow it, and here you have the whole system, according to the Code of Criminal Penalty, the conditions that must be met in order to consider parole, or to go on parole. So look at a little parallel practice and you'll see how it's regulated in other European countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8590	Thank you. Replica, MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8591	Minister, you've given three reasons, and of that, two of them are completely contrary to what kind of policy you're leading. First of all, you said that mildness is a criminal policy. We agree, the treasure is a criminal policy and in such a mild criminal policy you allow someone to automatically exit after 2/3 of the sentence. Making it possible to exit after two-thirds of the sentence won't lead to courts giving stricter sentences. The courts shall give such penalties as they consider necessary on the basis of what they have in the court proceedings proven. So, with a mild criminal policy, which is a tradition in this country, don't let anyone get out without any reason after 2/3 of the sentence. The second thing, we are not a developed country and we are not a country that can compare with Germany, England and France and that our judiciary will be like Germany, England and France. It still won't be, so don't compare yourself with them and take the example that there may be such a thing in some EU country. So, we live in Serbia, and we all understand what a criminal policy is, and we all know that the Amnesty Act less than a month ago has eased the fines by 25% and now you want to ease them by so much more. So in one month, we ease the fines by 50%. Otherwise, you say yourself it was a mild criminal policy. So think again about this and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8592	National MP Borislav Stefanovic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8593	I think there's one more thing being said here, which is that it's generally known, if I understand the Honorable Minister well, that there have been frequent abuses of parole institutes. You're doing the next thing now. If that was a motive for such a proposal, to ignore the parallel legal practice in Europe and in developed countries, as you said, since they don't, it seems to me, such problems as we have, which we have, which are inherited, you say the next thing -- there's abuse of parole, then let's introduce it to everyone linearly, and then there won't be any abuse, but also whoever commits the crime will know that after 2/3 he's going home anyway because the court has to decide so. That is why the amendment of Ljuban Panic is good, because it prevents any confusion in both the public and the colleagues of the lawyers and the application that will take place tomorrow. I think it's much better because it's very clear and definitely removing these doubts. We had similar doubts about the Amnesty Act. You didn't follow our suggestions. Then I begged you here several times and my colleagues from the DS and it was not appreciated. Now we have the following situation, if I'm all right, Minister, I understand, I wish I didn't, because there are a lot of abuses, and we all know that that's what we've been scratching on about the court, simply, everyone now has the right to parole only if they don't run away and they rule well, and we don't now give the names of those people who rub their hands listening to this debate, and they're in prisons. Here, my colleague is laughing across the street.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8594	Thank you. Replica, People's MP Olga Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8595	This isn't a replica. I have the right to comment on the amendment, since I have submitted an amendment to the same article. I believe that the Department of Justice should accept all three amendments submitted to this article. To be honest, that's my attitude. Since there's talk here all the time about a mild criminal policy and why isn't it stricter, I can ask why it hasn't been stricter in some previous years? You had a DHSS proposal here in 2008, you had in 2009 submitted precisely in the practice of amending and supplementing the very Criminal Code, where criminal sanctions were tightened and where criminal policy was tightened precisely for the most serious crimes. On the first proposal, it wasn't voted. On the second proposal, the majority also did not vote. The same case was with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Sanctions, so that this mild criminal policy is not from today and is not from yesterday, it dates a little yesterday. There was the will of some to change it and to be punished and stricter and to make criminal policy stricter and that today we have a criminal code that should not be passed this partially, because we are likely to expect its changes and additions again. I guess that's where it's going, but we can't advocate a strict criminal policy today, because this parliament already had moments when it was supposed to come out on that stricter criminal policy, so I didn't see anything come out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8596	Thank you. I consider your discussion a replica, because before that, you had already participated in the debate under the amendment. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8597	I have no evidence that the courts have misused their position in any way to decide on parole. From Mr. Minister's discussion, a reserve was put on court proceedings, that there was a possibility of influence on courts in deciding on parole. If that really exists, then I'm interested in how many cases have been brought against the judges, how many criminal proceedings have been brought against such judges?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8598	Mr. Mikovic, is that a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8599	No, I speak within a time frame and I make an argument which is why I have confidence in the judiciary. If there's no trust in the judiciary by those who have more information than I do, then I'm interested in sharing that information and seeing how much of the decision on parole was a violation of the law, what were those cases? I'm not interested personally, but is the procedure of dispensing these judges, whether they are initiating criminal proceedings, since there is a possibility provided for in Article 360 of the current Criminal Code, a violation of the law by the judge, the public prosecutor and his deputy in relation to the decision-making, so, if so, I'm interested in how many judges went behind the lock because they abused the possibility of parole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8600	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8601	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad to have a debate in this direction, because this is a great opportunity to say that when writing this draft, then the motion to amend and supplement the Criminal Code has indeed played a leading role and practice. The Code-making Working Group was attended by the acting presidents of all four appeals courts, both of the Novi Sad, of Belgrade, of the Kragujeva and of the newspaper. In all four appeals at the level of these courts, public hearings were held. The judges are the first to stand behind such a solution as the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8602	The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8603	Is it possible to care about this proposal because it's easier for the courts, they have less work to do? In any case, the court should measure whether or not to require a conditional discharge. It is a greater obligation in front of judicial authorities, but I think it's better law enforcement and better individualization in any particular case. We learned this from law school, through practice, through a judicial examination, that every time it's possible to perform something by individualizing, by measuring the penalties, by deciding on the rights, let's every time it's possible to carry out an individualization to do it. That's why we think we don't need to make a flat-rate decision, because then we only have one kind of amnesty where there's no decision, no judgment, just calculations. Mr. Minister, just to explain, we have the Amnesty Act, where we need it, so it's just a calculation, and we're in a situation where certain courts give interpretations about how the Amnesty Act should be applied and otherwise, for example. Article 3 that regulates amnesty to a single sentence, there is a bid on something. In my time, on the Amnesty Act, on the Justice Committee, I pointed out that a 20-month sentence could happen for two months. We have a specific case where it happened. Now appeals give a different interpretation, my God, it's not fair. There's no fair. If the law says so, the law has to be applied, even if it's wrong. That's why I think this is an opportunity to decide and individualize each time separately.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8604	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8605	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Like my colleague Batic, I feel that all amendments to this article should be accepted. I think we have a paradoxical situation, when it comes to the amendment to Article 7, one of the ruling coalition MPs said that such amendments could not be adopted because they would then put pressure on the court and abolish the independence of the courts, to decide on extenuating circumstances, in some cases where we believe that extenuating circumstances should not be, which we will talk about when it comes to this amendment. However, now that this amendment is concerned, we, on the other hand, are in violation of the independence of the courts, which requires them to do something without any right to decide whether it should be so. The government needs to decide on its own which policy it will lead. What worries is that in both cases, when it comes to amendments to Article 7 and when it comes to amendments to this article, we are only going to reduce the sentence. Given the Amnesty Act that was brought in, I'm afraid of what kind of government policy that seems to be going to the hands of those who have committed some kind of crime and who, because of those acts, are responding where they should respond. So the government seems to be in some situations, when it suits it, agreeing that courts have decision-making independence, do not allow anything to be prescribed for them, and in some situations it prescribes courts with obligations that they would not have to have. In both situations, in both cases, everything goes hand in hand to the perpetrators of the crimes. Let the government take a unique position on this issue, not that from members to members we have a different view of the government and different treatment of courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8606	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8607	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, let's get this over with. It's already become an impertinent debate. It was clear when the Ministry of Justice proposed the introduction of that mandatory one-third. The reason given at the time was more than good, from the point of view and penology and from the point of view of all scientific and practical papers, which were presented at seminars and scientific papers written in Serbia. What citizens need to understand, and we here are present, is that if someone is in prison and a good government, and it's not enough that one man says it's good government, but according to our law, it takes at least seven, eight different people, to say that someone has re-oriented, passed rehabilitation processes, completed the trade, did not fight, did not create problems with prison discipline, etc. The whole idea is that the one who served the prison sentence in this way gets a future chance to get out early, to reduce his sentence. At the very end of the line, we all who served the army know that we had good conduct in the army, because we were given the opportunity to get out early. counterpart Nedja Jovanovic's amendment has been perfectly accepted and is fully in line with the legal system. The reasons why a court is given the opportunity to release someone for a third sentence earlier are the same reasons that were used in the Amnesty Act. It's in line with the legal system. It is not true that in any way it affects or reduces the independence of the judiciary. No one in this assembly was bothered when we entered, when the Ministry of Justice proposed to amend the Code of Criminals, in the work concerning mandatory taking for a difficult environment, if the work was done out of hatred. So we have situations where the legislator clearly says that some things by the court must be treated in one way or another, in accordance with criminal policy. In one word, I think we would clarify, shorten this discussion and clarify the citizens and reduce the costs, the amendment of counterpart Nedja Jovanovic was accepted. That amendment is fully in line with the legal system. It is therefore impossible to accept other amendments afterwards, and this amendment allows those who are convicted of the most difficult acts to do, these are acts that are also excluded from amnesty, that the court still decides whether to apply the institute one-third or not. This solution is fully in line with the criminal policy that the Ministry of Justice is leading and will not lead to a reduction in penalties for unwarranted reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8608	Mr. Mikovic, I assume it's a replica? You have no basis. (Srdjan Mikovic, from the post: Can I from the time of the parliamentary group? You've already discussed this amendment. You have no right, you answer whatever you want under the same amendment. (Srdjan Mikovic, from the post: I have the right to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8609	I think I'm right about the Rules of Procedure. If that's your mercy, I won't take your word for it. All right, then. First, no matter how much I don't have the right to think of my discussion as barren or anyone's discussion as barren, you're saying he doesn't have a right to replication. No problem. But I don't think this discussion can be empty, because we're talking about strategically important matters for the state. In what way will we protect ourselves against crime, from corruption, from all those harmful behaviors that threaten every citizen of the state? To call such a barren thing and from the old president of the Assembly to prevent it from responding within the framework of the replica, within the right to use Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I don't think that's appropriate. Anyway, I think that's what we have to react to, because every discussion, if we're sitting here, and we're sitting since this morning, it's half past nine, I think it's inappropriate. The other thing is the issue of introducing a daunting hate situation. We have a situation where, in Article 54, the existing Criminal Code has been defined and the initiatives from which the work has been done. So if we read it right and says it, and hate for all these reasons that are now particularly numbered, it is covered and it is that the court must appreciate it. The other thing is whether or not we wanted to make another point, but then obviously we appreciate that the courts don't apply the Criminal Code that writes clearly right. I read it right, and no matter what good it is to underline it again, it's already written in the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8610	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8611	Dear Chairman, let me just point out, if I run out of time per amendment, that you know I'm an authorised representative of the 158th. Rules of Procedure 3. As regards amendments to Article 5, I submitted the amendment exclusively for reasons to correct some discrepancies that occurred by amending the 2009 laws, because it was in the position of the 5th member that left an unaltered provision allowing the court not to call off parole and in the event that the paroled was sentenced to prison just up to one year in prison. With the amendment of the proposed member, I think a general confusion is being introduced, and I think, above all, that the position of the promoter is unclear and that in this sense it had to be more precise, because this is exactly what the proposing is going to do to reduce the state's reaction to a completely repetitive criminal activity. Namely, the person on parole has been sentenced to prison for a certain crime and must always be kept in mind, as it is known that the sentence of prison serves in general and for the purpose of special prevention of the execution of a criminal offence. It is precisely this way that the amendment to this proposed Article 5 strengthens the legislator's will to influence future harm in the execution of the crime. I'll just ask my colleagues, since I listen to them carefully, that they listen to me in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8612	Thank you. You're right about the suggestion to listen carefully. I ask the People's MPs for order in the O.R., so that they may be heard. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljuban Panic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Jovicki. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Olgica Batić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8613	The objective of the amendments I have submitted to this article was certainly not to amend what the legislator had in mind when writing it, but to make such an amendment in a legal and technical sense adaptation precisely in the design of the proposed member of the Criminal Code. Naiima, I believe that the crime committed by hate because of race and religion, then national or ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation or birth identity and another person, this circumstance of the court should always be regarded as a daunting circumstance, unless it itself is prescribed as just a mark of a crime. It is unnecessary for a whole new member of the law, at least it is one of my opinions, which, in the light of the amendment, also made it clear to the new members of the law that the commitment to the implementation of international contracts, and that, on the other hand, it is technically inappropriate to put such a provision, in my opinion, into a separate member of the Criminal Code. Although the aim of the promoters of these amendments and the addition of the law is precisely with regard to this article and the amendment proposal, I think it is precisely a step beyond which this amendment should be adopted, as it seems to me that it is tailored to legal and technical nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8614	The 6th Amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8615	I'm just going to try one more time, eventually find some common denominator for this problem that I see from my angle. The OSCE document, which is called understanding the crimes committed by hate, says the victim can be one person, more person or property. So it's not just about faces, it's about property. Furthermore, if we read their document, it is said that the protected characteristic is a fundamental or main characteristic shared by members of a group such as race, religion, nationality, language. I accept if the term cultural heritage is very wide, to replace it in the correction of amendments with the term "language" and to at least protect that part, as is in this document of the OSCE. Why do I think that's the way it is to translate it into the language of life? I'll give two very specific examples, so let's try to analyze them together. If we come to a restaurant and you as a member of the Serbian National Community, I as a member of the Roma National Community, therefore, we are not members of the same ethnic group, we sing Serbian songs together, and because we sang a Serbian song, someone attacks us, and the circumstances make it a member of the Roma National Community, it cannot be punished in a qualified way for a simple reason because I am a member of the Roma National Community, and the condition is that you and I who sing are members of the same ethnic group or the same national community. Another example, if one library finds your book and my picture book, both of which are written in a Cyrillic letter, a vandal enters the same book as another, it can't, it's written in a Cyrillic letter, and neither you nor I are members of the same ethnic group, nor of the same nationality. That fact alone does not allow it to qualify as a difficult environment. I understand that my definition may have been very broad and that at this point, we may not be ready to accept it that way. In that sense, Minister, I suggest that I replace the term "language", as is the case in the OSCE documents, because in this direction we can now specify a number of such examples, where, especially in a multicultural society, where certain language elements are accepted by members of different national communities, members of different ethnic communities, and that those who hate, I hate this element of culture, or language, and that if it attacks on it, it cannot be condemned, because simply, those who use it, do not belong to the same ethnic group or do not belong to the same national community. If that were true, I wouldn't be reading this whole text I'm talking about right now. I'm just going to remind you one more time of what I read at the very beginning. So the victim can be one person, more person or property. When it comes to property or language, it has nothing to do with ethnic or national belongings, that is, that is to say. I do not dispute that belonging to a national community, one of the features should be language. But that doesn't mean it has to be. The modern view of defining the national community, especially when it comes to Roma, then it knows not only the language category. You have one number of people in Vojvodina speaking Romanian, a number of people speaking Roma language, and another number of people speaking Hungarian or Serbian. This modern approach to such a determination I think we should accept and accept the language as such in this case, because it is not so rare that individuals have certain prejudices, and prejudice is the basic element here, either according to the Cyrillic letter or according to the Latin letter. We Roma use both Cyrillic and Latin letters, so there's no problem here. But indeed those who look unilaterally can be a serious object of attack. I would ask you to consider, and in that sense, I will submit a correction to the amendment, to repeat that term, once again, which speaks here of cultural heritage, by replacing the language. As a foothold, it is the OSCE document, which undoubtedly speaks about a certain practice and about countries about the environment and certainly is the flow of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8616	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalić, together Gordana Comić, Slobodan Homen and Srdjan Milivojevic and MP Ljuban Panic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8617	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is really about a very important amendment. The current law, which is still in force, stipulates that penalties for some crimes, which fall under serious crimes, cannot be imposed below the legal minimum. We believe that this solution is more than justifiable. Now this bill of criminal code provides for the possibility of easing punishment for some monstrous crime, such as, say, rape, promise of an powerless face, promise of a child. I would really like someone to tell me the circumstances that they can see as such a relaxing circumstance that rapeers, i.e. paedophiles, are relieved of the penalty below the legal minimum. The legislator said in his explanation that this amendment is contrary to other provisions of the general section of the Criminal Code, which provide for the possibility of easing penalties in certain cases, so in practice the dilemma appeared. I'm really interested, if he foresees the possibility of easing punishment, his amendment absolutely prohibits the possibility of easing punishment for these crimes and I don't see what the opposite is. In addition, it has been said that there is no precise criterion on which Article 57(2) is based. Criminal code, certain crimes under which punishment is forbidden. Is there a stronger criterion than that it is the most monstrous crime, which should predict much more rigorous punishments than it is today? I'll remind you that it's not rare that the law, or that the court, for these crimes even predicts parole, sometimes gives parole, or very mildly effective prison sentences of only a few months. This category of perpetrators, of course, if not always, it often belongs to the category of returnees, i.e. persons who are not only satisfied with the fact that these crimes are committed once, but are done several times. As a result, it would be necessary to implement a more rigorous criminal policy when it comes to these crimes, and even to introduce the possibility of a bracelet for monitoring free persons and persons released, it is the perpetrators of criminal acts. It was even, I think, a proposal from the former justice ministry, which would have come across a great public acceptance. Too bad it didn't come into practice. I really ask you to reconsider this possibility once again, because it would not be correct, it would not be humane, it would not be moral, at the very least, to foresee for these crimes the possibility of easing punishment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8618	The word has a People's MP, Free Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think we're coming to the crucial point of this law, probably the most important thing that cannot be, can't be the subject of political supremacy, which can't be a question of the relationship between position and authority. This is a key issue for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There are various crimes-- corruptive, classical crime, murder, armed robbery, but you'll agree there's no more serious and worse crime that anyone can do, even think that only sick people can do it, from rape and pedophilia. Unfortunately, in our society and rape and pedophilia other times are not seriously identified as a serious social danger. That's not what they were talking about and it was hiding. Very rarely have we ever witnessed such criminal acts being dealt with by the authorities, the police and the D.A.'s office, and thus the court. Unfortunately, court practice has led to penalties for both pedophilia and rape being very mild. In the previous term, the Ministry of Justice has proposed an unusual provision that did not exist, which I may agree to formally, which reads – for certain crimes, the penalty under the legal minimum cannot be mitigated. Here we are looking for no stricter punishment, but only what the law predicted as a minimum penalty for rapists and paedophiles, that it cannot be tempered below that minimum, for a simple reason, because the analysis of criminal policy has shown that our society, that judges are not aware of the seriousness and severity of the crime. We're not talking about someone breaking the line here. Serve your sentence, make up for the damage, if you're insured, but these crimes leave lasting consequences to a man's life. In other words, children, women who have been raped, never recover from such an event. That's why the idea is to send a clear message that the state won't tolerate it and that, at least minimally, they provide such protection and satisfaction, if at all it can be after such a crime. That is why I have proposed an amendment and I am glad that my colleagues from the DSS have proposed the same amendment. This isn't a question of DS, this is a matter of principle. I apologize and Olga Batic also submitted the amendment. You can see that the entire opposition stands in the same position. For me, this is a key thing in this law, and it will define me whether I can personally support the law or not. I can't vote for a law that will reduce or allow paedophiles and rapists to get lower sentences. I don't think anyone normal in this society should support it. This isn't just about rapists and paedophiles, it's about the most serious crimes committed with the element of violence. Violence is something that, I agree, we must, you will agree, we will condemn. So, coercion, kidnapping, all those acts where human rights are truly violated in the most brutal way. I think it would be good for this country, for this to be good for the National Assembly, not to be called that by voting and adopting such a text of the law, we have made it difficult for the victims, that we have eased their sentences, that for moral reasons it is good to adopt this amendment. In that sense, if the ruling majority is ready, since the government was obviously not ready to adopt such an amendment, if it is ready to vote, we can get a quality text of the law. I repeat, this is not a question of my political conviction, this is a matter of morality, this is a matter of principle. Please, as MPs, vote this amendment. It doesn't hurt anyone, I just think that... (President: I apologize, please re-apply.) It's my fault. Let me repeat this last sentence. I think they're going to talk clearly about the seriousness of all of us here, that there are no political differences when it comes to such important things. In my opinion, this is one of those things where we really shouldn't have different opinions. Legals can formally discuss whether something, a place, is standing somewhere in the text of the law, but such a commitment, I don't think it can stop it. What's most important is that for those crimes that are from our heart and stomach however you like, something worst that can happen to anyone, what you don't want to do, they have to be clearly sanctioned and I think this is the only way to go. Another way that existed earlier, it was clear that, I must say, there were cases that a six-month sentence was pronounced for rape. In the case-law, there are conditions for rapists to be imposed, for child rape, for paedophilia up to a year in prison. I think it's a bad message. Just one last sentence, which the DSS colleague said, and she's absolutely right, it's the returnees. By serving one prison sentence, when they come out, they repeat their actions. I will remind you of Maria's law here in the Assembly, which was proposed, which I call upon the ruling coalition to return it to the Assembly. Of course, I'm fully prepared to make certain changes, in which direction they think they should go, for a simple reason, because it's not enough just to punish them with strict prison sentences, because they keep repeating crimes. They're serving a prison sentence, and they're doing it from the beginning. It is necessary to have a control mechanism after a legal sentence has been served. Whether she's 30 or 40 years old, they're repeating those crimes again. I think it is a great responsibility over all of us, and I expect this amendment to be adopted by the ruling coalition, the Justice Ministry, however, to propose this bill. Maybe what we suggested to the Justice Department from your perspective isn't best, I accept that, but you just suggest it in any form. I think it is crucial for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8620	Thank you. . The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8621	So, as I said in explaining this bill's proposal, I really did remain unclear, so I have to ask that as a question. If you said the most difficult acts with the elements of violence were covered, how is it possible that there was a serious murder? I'm not at all aware of the principle of writing this catalogue of the part to be exempted. For example, in the production and marketing of intoxicating drugs you have left out the most difficult form, and this is an organized criminal group as a perpetrator is not covered by this article. Also, when I said it was contrary to the general section of the Criminal Code, I still stand on it. What about the crimes committed by force or threat? What about those that have been done in a state of incompatibility? What about the criminal acts in the attempt? Regardless of what I said, here the former legislator made a mistake by not citing a good catalogue of crimes that should be excluded, or that should be excluded from mitigation. I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8622	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Free Homen, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8623	Mr. Minister, I wanted to say something else, but I really need to thank you on behalf of the National Assembly. I think this is a big deal. I said I'd vote for your bill, whether I agree in detail or not with any other solutions. I think it's a big deal and you did a good job. This shows that there is a possibility of co-operation between the position and the opposition in Serbia, and for the benefit of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8624	Thank you. Alexandra Jerkov has been reported. Is there a need? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8625	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I have prepared two discussions. One is to accept this amendment, and the other is to reject it. I'm glad we're doing better in the afternoon, like I said. Unbound for that, I have a duty to thank you, because I've been contacted by the families of the victims of the most monstrous, I won't mention names because of moral concerns towards these people, but they also asked me in the message they sent me, did you, as a man, a brother, a friend, a neighbor, ever contact with a child who was the victim of sexual violence? Do you have children and do you know the consequences of children's health leave an act of sexual violence... (President: Mr. Milivojevic, please do not ask such questions to the minister, but proceed according to the amendment. You didn't understand me very well, Mr. Chairman. I'm just saying what the families asked, not me. (President: Mr. Milivojevic, I understand and do not beg you, I warn you not to ask such questions, Minister. Here you go. I would like to thank you on behalf of all those families who have contacted me, on behalf of all MPs who will welcome this decision. In the end, I can't help but mention my late friend, Dr. Vladan Batic. He died on December 29th 2010. The last proposal he made to the National Assembly was that such crimes, as in the orderly states of the world, are being punished by chemical castration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8626	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8627	I think it's a good thing the minister of justice accepted such an amendment, because it's extremely constructive, and it's not a whim to accept it, it's a real need. On the other hand, accept some of my amendments, so maybe I'll vote for this bill. If it doesn't, then nothing. It's a joke on the side. As for the amendment to Article 7 that I have submitted, I think it is conditioned by the necessity of everything that is happening in the country of Serbia. We were talking about rapes, we're talking about paedophilia, we're talking about multiple returnees, and that would mean that if article 57 of Section 2 was erased, it would allow for serious crimes, and I'm just justify the possibility of eradicating penalties that are extremely mild, and that's how our entire criminal policy is. The case-law has been rarely shown, despite being often called upon by the proposer in this bill, that she is ashamed of certain crimes and that, not only can't, but also that it must not be prohibited to relieve punishment for what some of my predecessors have said, which is for the crime of rape. You don't have to be a lawyer for that, so that you only have a little common sense and that you know that something like that would be contrary to common sense. Another crime is the promise of a helpless face, the promise of a child, the most severe forms of kidnapping, the most severe forms of extortion. What's already being mentioned, and the minister seems to have said that to me, and that's drug trafficking. It is precisely because of the legal minimum and because of this mentioned case-law, which is not good enough in this direction, that drug dealers are just getting away with strict penalties, that they often get out of some inability or I have to be completely impartial, so to say that sometimes because of the inability to prove it, just an organized criminal group, which someone mentioned, is already being determined by an ordinary group. This is what Mr Selakovic mentioned, which is that it is not intended for the most serious form of crime – an organized criminal group, but an ordinary group is determined. We have that, instead of saying at least 10 years in prison, by applying the penalty-relieving institute to the organizer for three years, then according to the parole provisions for two years, and when we apply to such a drug dealer a minimum sentence-relieving provision, the sentence will then be reduced to one year, and by applying the parole institute, he will be released after eight months. The possibility of easing criminal penalties, such as the illegal crossing of the state border, such as trafficking in human beings, cannot be allowed. This is about extremely serious crimes for which the possibility of easing penalties cannot exist. On the other hand, I see that here some MPs, above all, I will thank my colleague Milivojevic for mentioning something that I think is really important, because everyone here has just entered, and when DHS and Vladan Batic tabled a proposal to the Assembly on chemical castration and precisely multiple rapists, paedophiles, I must mention that such a thing has been done in Poljkoj, Czech Republic, that such a thing has been adopted in Russia, to which many have been called, and to which Medvedev has been signed, adopted by the State Duma, here many have feared it, and above all those who have been advocates of human rights, so they have called on the provisions of Articles 34, Articles 23 and 24. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because it violates the right to life and the right to mental and physical integrity. Excuse me, but is a rapist or a multiple pedophile entitled to life and any integrity? We don't think so. In this regard, the proposal on amendments to the Law on the Prosecution of Criminal Sanctions was submitted. In this sense, chemical castration was proposed. Just as the registries were proposed, which was eventually passed by by the government. Just like chipping was supposed to be. It's no big deal. This is what the countries of Europe apply whether it's voluntary or chemical castration, that's another question. I'll also remind you that here, Prime Minister Dacic, three years ago, has it in press clippers and can be found, but if he were asked, he would physically castrate rapists and paedophiles. Now I'm saying and of course I'm going to run into the disdain of all those human rights fighters, my intimate opinion is that, so I would also physically castrate. But if we can't go in that direction already, because they're going to rebel, let's at least make some move so that the victims of rape and pedophile are not just some NN person who we read in black chronicles every day, but let's do something for them, because if these fighters call on human rights, first let them consult their daughters, let them consult their wives, let them consult their mothers and their sisters, and then let them worry about the rights of rapists and multiple paedophiles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8628	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8629	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8630	The word has Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8631	I am pleased that the argument of my colleagues, Home and other fellow Members, has been accepted, which is why it should be left in Article 57 of the existing position 2. In fact, I'd just like to bring one more thing closer to anyone who's watching this transmission and who's dealing with criminal law. Current Article 179. The criminal code stipulates that anyone who makes a promise or, with it, an equal act, takes advantage of mental illness, residual mental development, other mental disorder, impotence or any other state of that person, due to which it is not capable of resistance, under the applicable law, is being threatened by a sentence of two to ten years. If Article 57, paragraph 2, could be deleted, the sentence of up to six months in prison could be eased. It's two years now, and it could be six months. Let me translate again to everyone what's going on. Whoever makes a promise or does an equal act with a child will be punished by a prison of three to 12 years. If they were to delete attitude 2, then the three-year sentence could be eased to one year in prison. For raping a child for up to one year. If that part would result in a serious physical injury to the child under which the work was committed, or the work was committed by a number of persons, or as a consequence has a pregnancy, a prison sentence of five to 15 years has been threatened for the time being. This could be reduced and a sentence of up to three years in prison could be imposed. If the death of a child occurs, a sentence of at least 10 years is now threatened, and there could be a reduction of up to seven years in prison. That's why I think the argument is that, and I suppose that's what led Mr. Secretary to accept this amendment and congratulate us for getting to the consensus after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8632	I think you will now support all this work in the late hours. Allow me to thank you on your behalf, as all parliamentary groups participate in that committee, and as chairman of the Committee on the Rights of the Child and on behalf of all MPs of the National Assembly for accepting this amendment. In my personal name, I ask the minister to consider tightening the legislation for such a type of crime. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8633	I think I've already said that when I've explained amendments submitted by other MPs, but I'll agree with you, so I'll turn over the amendment to the Criminal Code myself, just in the direction of tightening the criminal policy for those crimes, so I won't repeat them again, so we'll see if there's a will for this Parliament to adopt such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8634	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8635	Excuse me, did you say an amendment to Article 8? (President: On Article 12) I'm sorry, I've submitted a lot of amendments. First of all, as regards the amendment to Article 12, I also believe that its application is not a hierarchy but a need and a submitted amendment, I am actually proposing an amendment because the Criminal Code not only provides for criminal offences in which the property benefit is obtained, but also foresees criminal acts that are being committed and which are often done to harm someone's property. Property and property benefits are not synonyms and can never be understood, because they're actually far from it. It should be borne in mind that a large number of crimes are committed precisely without property benefit, and that these crimes are done on the other hand to the detriment of someone’s property. I think that's the kind of thing that needs to be distinguished here. I also think that by eradicating this definition of assets, many of the actions that are under threat, because in many proceedings it is not possible to prove at all, or the judges in question, by proving that the property benefit has been obtained, because it is evidenceable, in accordance with the specific part of the Criminal Code, that an infringement of property has been committed, e.g. property at the expense of the Republic of Serbia. To that end alone, I have submitted an amendment to the proposed member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8636	Thank you. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Judita Popovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8637	Our amendment refers to the definition of a responsible person. We believe that it is as provided for in the bill too broadly. We believe that it is quite enough when it is said that a person in law is responsible, that a person is considered to be a person who, under the law, regulations or authority, performs certain tasks of management, supervision or other activities of a legal person. I think there's supposed to be a point, and there's a part of it: "as well as a person who's actually entrusted with doing these jobs" erases. Why? Because we believe that this extended definition, as foreseen here, hides a trap within itself, which is the possibility of avoiding responsibility for a responsible person. Why do I say that? If the responsible person were also the person who was in fact entrusted with certain tasks, then that would mean that it is responsible and that it can only be held accountable on the basis of one single word. The responsible person within the meaning of this law shall, of course, be the director, the owner, if he has kept his office in the firm, as well as the other managers in the given company. That's why I think the director, an example, can avoid responsibility in one company by saying that he entrusted a certain business with, in a word, another employee in the company. To prove that he's right, he can hire, for example, two witnesses. These can be two workers from that company, who will knowingly falsely testify that it was done, because they will be threatened by either losing their jobs or by cutting their wages or by doing so. Thus, we will come to the very avoidance of the responsibility of a truly responsible person, not one who is in fact entrusted with the performance of these duties. I therefore believe that the definition of a responsible person within the meaning of this bill is too wide and really foresees the possibility of various abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8638	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8639	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is, indeed, and I think that this definition of the responsible person is too wide, because, indeed, this responsibility should be narrowed down to the steering and supervisory position within the legal person, and certainly not those persons entrusted with performing certain tasks from the work of the legal person. As defined by this, a magician, as well as a director, can respond, and as is the case with the one who controls the work of that legal person. I think it's unacceptable, and we should really take care of this kind of crime, that exactly who should be responsible and who should suffer the consequences of a crime that seriously violates the legal order. For this reason, I do not understand the argument, which actually supported the government's decision not to adopt this amendment. That argument, you'll allow it, but I really don't think it's serious, because calling on the possibility that if this part of the definition of a responsible person is deleted, it's going to jeopardize the possibility of pursuing other crimes. Therefore, when you are doing some corrections and supplementing the Criminal Code, it would be good to think carefully about what you want to achieve with these amendments and additions. We're still arguing today, probably until deep into the night, that's how we actually discussed it when we discussed the principle of this criminal code. I don't think it really is, it does not serve the honour of either the ministry proposed by this law or the parliament working on the proposal by the MPs discussing it. I don't know why such a haste, when it comes to amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, I see that the Justice Committee has submitted certain amendments, and the Committee, too, is extending the time limit for applying certain provisions of these amendments and additions, somewhere in the spring of 2013. Then why the urgency of this procedure, then why this kind of debate at the deaf hour of the night, without TV transmission. Therefore, all this does not give sufficient reasons for amending the law and for this way in the shortcut of some changes to the Criminal Code which will not change that law more significantly, but will really question criminal policy and will question all that has been done well in some earlier amendments and additions, and what has been well done in this process of judicial reform. Therefore, it would be good to think again about changing the definition of a responsible person and somehow focusing on those who operate within a responsible person and on those who perform certain supervisory tasks. You know how, when a responsible person is no longer part of that crime scene of abuse of office, the question arises how we're going to put that responsible person in a crime of abuse of position by the responsible person. How can this be so clearly defined and clearly applied to that member of the Criminal Code, when it is judged to all those currently on the wallpaper, to all those currently in some pre-criminal procedure, who are so driven through the media for certain crimes of the domain, including this type of crime. You know, if a responsible person can be someone who only works in a legal person, then he's been entrusted with doing certain business out of the work of that legal person. This means that even someone who was only part of the team, that management part of the legal entity, and that he had no opportunity to impose his will in making certain decisions, would be an accomplice to the execution of criminal acts, and that he really did not contribute in any way to the execution of this crime. It's kind of demeaning the whole crime scene, it's a distraction from those real responsible faces. We'll also have the opportunity to talk about that crime, the new crime, under the pretenses, which were created by the abuse of the official position being somewhat limited.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8640	Thank you. Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted together by MPs Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic, together Vesna Marjanovic and Ljuban Panic and MP Judita Popovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8641	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, I am sorry that the Government did not accept the amendment although I wish to share the satisfaction of my colleagues tonight, although we are discussing late, we have a constructive debate because, among other things, we have shown that in the previous days, the great activity of MPs and committees has led us to change or we are on the way to amend that proposal that originally the Government has submitted to us. I listened very carefully to Mr. Minister's argument at the beginning of the principle debate when it came to this member of the law. As you know, it is therefore an amendment to a provision introduced by amendments to Criminal Law in 2009 and it has not been introduced by accident. It was introduced after great pressure, therefore, understanding of the problems in society and following permanent attacks on journalists and judges. In his explanation, the minister gave, let me say, two or three reasons why he did not consider that provision should remain in the law, therefore, to accept my amendment and amendment of my colleagues to delete this proposal now submitted. This is that these crimes are incriminating other criminal acts, that there are no harmonised penalties and that there are discrimination against certain categories of citizens. Even then, I did not agree with that argument, given that it is precisely why there are qualified crimes, which is why criminal law singles out those cases that have been followed by special circumstances, to say socially dangerous or unacceptable circumstances. I think we need to show understanding and I think that the public has also reacted in the last few days, and journalists associations, MPs and citizens, to understand the circumstances in which we live, an atmosphere of tension, very often extreme behaviours in which public officials of state authorities and journalists work. Also, by playing with a kind of populism, we mix what is called individual protection, from what is the protection of the institution. So it is very important to understand that we are also defending institutions through criminal law and that, in both cases, in the case of the protection of state officials and in the case of the protection of journalists, we are safeguarding democracy and some democratic fundamental principles. I will, regardless of what is common knowledge and what is very often repeated behind this speaker, these facts from our social and political life repeat what is common knowledge, but it must be repeated repeatedly for both this speaker and the public and in the media. This is a country where the murders of journalists Dade Vujasinovic, Slavko Curuvija, Mihajl Pantic, in which journalists have been attacked in recent years, Dejan Anastasijević, Theophil Pancic, are likely to miss, it is a very long list of journalists, Tanja Jankovic from Vranja, Biljana Vujovic, the leader, editor of local television in Leskovic, even sports journalists, because someone doesn't like their reports. A country where just the other day some extreme organizations threatened the judges of the Constitutional Court, published a list of inadequate media, is not a country that can observe this problem and such possible criminal acts from the position of an orderly and stable country. For us as DS, it will always be a sensitive issue of jeopardising security and state officials for the murder of Zoran Djindjic, but I think everyone should be sensitive to this historic tragic fact, because at that moment he was Prime Minister. So what needs to be remembered is that in this country, you're still putting yourself in public business, and your life may be at risk. I think it's important to understand the reasons I believe, and my colleagues and I have submitted this amendment, that this is important for the citizens as well. I have to ask my colleagues who are communicating with the minister to do it when I'm done. I think it is important for citizens, for the simple reason I believe that if journalists feel they are doing their job, under the influence of threats and in fear of their own safety, it can also apply to policymakers, that citizens will not have the security and confidence that these decisions will be made freely or that journalists will report completely freely. I, like everyone, have been informed that today's committee has proposed an amendment similar to this amendment that I have submitted and which has been rejected. He's, as far as I'm concerned, acceptable. I hope the minister will respect some of these amendments. In the end, I would just say that this is the second time in the last few days that in law that does not deal with matter, doesn't regulate matter media issues, we had provisions that could threaten the freedom and independence of journalists, or the media, I mean the Law on Public Enterprises, which we also here in the Assembly have overcome in a constructive and positive way. It is simply that this may be before the Ministry of Culture's suggestion that the media should also take care of those laws that are not directly in their jurisdiction, that such failures should not be repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8642	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8643	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, I will refer to the discussion of my colleague Marjanovic in the context of the fact that the Committee on Justice has today proposed an amendment concerning Article 13 and 138, respectively, that the Committee on Law on which I am headed, the amendment has fully supported it. So, we agree, the SNS fully supports the need to especially protect all the actors who actively participate in the fight against corruption and who are clearly exposed to certain attacks and threats, and as we see ourselves, there have been many unfortunate events, and in the end I have read today that last year and in the world, 48 journalists have lost their lives and for these reasons the SNS fully supports the adoption of the amendment of the Committee on Justice which, I will read, in fact, we have the basic form of a criminal act of endangering security, so – who is threatening the security of a person by threatening the life or the body of that person or his close person, is being punished by a fine or imprisonment until one year, but if this act is carried out by the President of the Republic, the People's MP, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, the Constitutional Court, the Judge, the Judge, the Public Prosecutor, the Deputy Public Prosecutor, the Prosecutor, the Deputy Public Prosecutor, the Attorney, the Attorney of the Public Prosecutor, the Public Prosecutor, the Public Prosecutor, the Attorney, the Public Prosecutor, the Attorney, the Public Officer, the Public Service, the Court, the Public Service, the Court, the Court, the Public Service, the Court, and the Court of the Public Service, the Public Service, the Court of the Court, and the Office of the Office, and the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office, and the Office of the Office, and the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office of office. I particularly point out that the SNS supports such an amendment by the Justice Committee, because as we can see, all the people who are the most endangered and police officers and prosecutors and judges of the Constitutional Court will be particularly protected, up to five years in prison, and we especially support it, and therefore we want to show our respect for journalists the fact that all persons involved in the conduct of the affairs in the field of information will be protected. So we should explain to the citizens, including ourselves, that this amendment will protect not only professional journalists, but also columnists, and people who are commentators in the paper, if someone comes and threatens a guy, I'll break your hand, I'll break your head, and it happens in practice, whoever threatens, will be punished for up to five years. In order to avoid confusion and with all due respect to those who have submitted the amendments, the Committee on Justice almost unanimously adopted this amendment, but after a discussion that was extremely constructive, we accepted very constructive proposals from my colleague, Mikovic, who is just reminding me that he has just made the specific constructive proposals, but I must not forget my colleague Konstantinovic. So we can say that this is in some way unanimous support of all MPs, in line with the country's determination to fight corruption and thus protect all those who are particularly exposed to threats in this fight against corruption. I'll take the opportunity to say that the Committee on Justice, and later on, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed two more amendments, is of a technical nature, we'll talk about it later, and one amendment is about postponing the application for crimes, abuses of the official position, and criminal acts of Article 234 of the authorized person, but I must stress that, at the request of the judicial authorities, it's precisely crimes related to corruption, which are 359 and 234. Criminal code is a crime where objects have 10,000 pages. It takes some time for requalifications to be carried out, to make changes and to complete the charges themselves. We'll agree that three months, because when we add up the date of adoption and entry into force of this law, so when we subtract January, when there's really going to be celebrations, holidays, the prosecutors will be left with only three months to requalify what it is, when you have an object of 10,000 pages and a short period of time. To conclude, through the joint activity of all MPs, the Justice Committee has protected all people who are particularly exposed to the fight against corruption, particularly the protection of journalists and all who are connected with journalism, and this is a very good move in the fight against corruption, and it will become an integral part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8644	National MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8645	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true, we had a very good discussion today on the Committee on Justice, we put forward a proposal and with this proposal were agreed by MPs from the opposition and MPs of the ruling coalition, and counterpart Nedja Jovanovic also discussed it, that we should not forget it, that we should bring an amendment to the Committee and we have brought an amendment to the Committee and now it is on the move of the Government. The government representative did not accept it then, had no authority to accept it, so I expect the minister to tell us whether he accepts the Committee's amendment to Article 13 or whether he accepts the amendment of counterpart Vesna Marjanovic to a member of the 13th or another parliamentary group to Article 13. The difference between what counterpart Vesna Marjanovic suggested and what the board proposed is in two things. One is an amendment to this first one – it is deleted, which means that punishment for this crime will be threatened from one to eight years. What the board suggested, that's something that we could all come up with together at the board's session, that's that this punishment is slightly less threatened up to five years ago, but that's where we've included police officers, which we think is very important and lawyers who have not been in the law before. So our discussion will still go in a certain direction depending on whether you accept one, another, or perhaps some third amendment to this article, so I'd like to hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8646	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8647	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really glad that the Justice Committee realized the extent to which the billmaker was wrong when he decided to delete this position, Article 138. The criminal code, which envisioned this qualified case of protection of top state officials and journalists. So, in general, that article 13. The bill was not supposed to be part of this bill at all. The amendment I submitted was the same amendment submitted by Mrs Vesna Marjanovic of the DS, which was submitted by Mrs Milica Radovic of the DSS. So, three parties, three opposition parties, completely autonomously, each submitted an identical amendment to this Article 13. That says enough about how much the amendment actually needed to be adopted. All these amendments – deleted, should have been accepted by the government and the proposed amendment of Article 138 should simply be deleted. Why is it very important to talk a little bit about the meaning of this attitude, Article 138. Criminal code? It is important for this reason, because this amendment of the Committee on Justice extends a small circle of persons subject to this type of protection under Article 138. KZ. However, the maximum penalty threatening this crime is reduced. Instead of eight years, five years are expected. I'd like to remind you that in that case, it's a matter of little importance. So why a qualified form, if you're putting this crime in the act of little importance. You know what, it's an act of little importance to you in that case, when it comes to some degree of guilt, which is small, when there are no harmful consequences or if the adverse consequence is minor, when the general purpose of punishment can be achieved by giving some really small punishment, and normally, if it's a prison sentence, which is projected to be up to five years old. For this reason, I began to realize that I was really pleased that the Committee on Justice realized that the bill promoter had made a mistake. However, I am not satisfied with the fact that the threatened sentence is reduced from eight to five years, when it comes to the maximum limit that can be said. We live in a time when we have put on prosecutors, judges, a huge responsibility against organised crime and the fight against corruption. We live in a time when journalists are exposed to serious threats, insults, and in fact, their safety is threatened physically, mentally and at all threatened as individuals, as journalists, as professionals, and every day. It must not be forgotten, and we must not play with that fact that we must also protect civil servants, journalists, police officers, lawyers, because somehow we are all part of a puzzle in this common picture, in this common story, about the preservation of some basic civilization values, which is the legal order of the state, it is in fact the fight against organised crime and corruption that threatens this country so much. So I've mentioned before that the Criminal Code, when it changes, is a serious business. When business is serious, then one plan should be made, a strategy should be made and one serious goal should be declared. From the proposal of this law, we don't see that all this has been done as a previous question. This is proof, this relationship with Article 13. The bill just proves how little was missing from the strategy that was to be implemented before it was approached by changes. So I appeal to you, I really support the amendment of the Justice Committee, in that part where both officers and lawyers are brought in as protected persons in terms of this crime, but I disagree with that, with the level of sentence imposed that can reach a maximum of eight years. Therefore, I, Mr. Minister, suggest you think a little bit about whether you will adopt this amendment to the Justice Committee in this form as it is given, or whether you will decide to simply delete this Article 13. The draft law, and for any future proposal to amend and supplement the KZ, provide for an extension of the circle of the person, which will be protected within the meaning of this Article 138.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8648	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8649	I am pleased that all three parliamentary groups of the opposition have submitted the same amendment, and that, as far as I can see in this debate, is not the first time. I'd like to, simply have the minister give his opinion. It doesn't matter to me what amendment will be accepted, whether the amendment that we have filed by Mrs. Judita Popovic, me and Mrs. Vesna Marjanovic, or, in one part, the amendment of the Justice Committee, which provides for a minor prison sentence, or punishment, but, on the other hand, extends the circle of face, which I still think is a good solution and I have no problem there, means that we even accept that amendment. In that situation, I can withdraw my amendment, and that's the least of the problems. What is now provided for in this bill is really bad. The erasure of this crime is foreseen to endanger the safety of top public officials, judges, prosecutors and journalists. It was completely justified to me and logically that this crime might be transferred to another head of the KZ and that would be understandable to me. But in this way, it just disappears from the KZ and I think it's very bad. As a reason for that, you state that the severe punishment is envisaged and that it as such is not adequate and, of course, that the existence of this part has been discriminated against by all those other persons, whose sense of security is less important or less important. I, of course, cannot agree with such an explanation, especially because we live in a country where in the past, unfortunately there have been unpleasant events, when it comes to public function holders and that any threat addressed to public function holders must be taken seriously as possible. The reasons why my amendment is rejected and why you think this is a better solution, I personally believe that such claims find their justification exclusively in the claims of demagogue nature and as such I cannot support them. Let's just remind ourselves of one thing. Last year alone, a little less than 2,000 criminal charges have been filed for jeopardising the safety of judicial holders. I'll also remind you that the threat to the Constitutional Court judges is not the only threat. Because the state authorities did not react in the most appropriate way to the fact that security is now at risk, but unfortunately, the former holders of judicial functions, there have been unprecedented events, more specifically a tragic event in the Court of Justice, then the Municipal Court in the Principality, and it seems to me in the Municipal Court of Odzac. That's why I think this crime has to survive in the Criminal Code. On the other hand, you also said that endangering the security that is threatened by threats or in any way directed to judicial authorities, that it was incriminating through another criminal act of obstruction of justice. Yes, that's true, but I also remind you that the large circle of faces, which are right here in this crime scene, remains without criminal protection. So I repeat again, if the punishment is inadequate, reduce it, but do not delete this crime from the Criminal Code. On the other hand, I don't have a shred of vanity. Accept whatever amendment, only that this act simply remains in the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8650	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Snezana Stojanović Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8651	Thank you. I must remind my colleagues and colleagues that I, too, have submitted an amendment to this member of the law. If you'll excuse me, Mr. President, I would now take the opportunity to talk about this article, since the subject is exactly the same, and I will not answer later. I also filed, along with my colleague, an amendment to this member of the law. I also spoke in the principle debate about the fact that it is also unacceptable for me for the URS parliamentary group to have this work completely deleted from the Criminal Code. What was offered as an explanation in the text we received was, above all, the fact that judges and prosecutors were already covered by another criminal act. It was also concerned that the penalties were not harmonised, first of all, in relation to the work of preparing for the murder of high-ranking officials and it concerned a third part, which I did little to comment on in the principle debate, and now I would not, in particular, which, in my opinion, is unfounded, and this is the claim that by introducing this criminal act is being brought into an unequal position for all citizens. I think we have already cleared up during and the principle debate and this debate that it is incorrect and that the safety of all citizens of Serbia is closely related to the safety of people who perform public functions and journalists who are a corrective factor in our society. I have submitted an amendment that has respected all your remarks from the reasons you've given. So, my amendment does not cover judges and prosecutors, given the fact that they, as you have stated, are covered by other criminal acts, and the sentence has been reduced to one to five years, and this is exactly the solution that we now see proposing the committee. It's a good thing the board talked about this. I would appreciate that my amendment has been more seriously considered and that it has been taken into account that I can make a technical amendment to the work that should refer the text safely and to police officers, it is a slip I have made and probably to lawyers, so I believe that we can also solve this problem. What's my objection to the Committee's amendment? It is exactly the opposite of that argument that citizens have been brought into an unequal position. I am afraid that by introducing only fines for the basic form of work now only this amendment committee may make it possible for citizens to be brought into an unequal position, because for the threat of them and their close persons, it will be possible to resolve only fines, which I believe is inappropriate for such an act of endangering security. I urge you to accept my amendment, because it contains all the elements that are necessary for this work to be in line with both your ideas and your arguments, and with everything that has been brought here.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8652	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8653	Dear President, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, I will briefly relate to all my predecessors, because there is no need to elaborate what has already been pointed out many times. My appeal as a member of the Justice Committee, along with colleagues of lawyers, who gave their warm support to this amendment, would be based on the following facts. First, it should not be enslaved by the fact that the qualifications of the criminal act of obstruction of justice are covered by criminal and legal protection and by those persons who enjoy criminal and legal protection just as per Article 138, in relation to whom we have put the amendment. Why am I saying this? It should not be enslaved because it is a narrow circle or narrow range of protective goods in the criminal act of obstruction of justice in relation to the crime of endangering security. We are witnesses of a minor daily situation of terror against judges, lawyers, especially journalists who have initiated or stimulated the submission of amendments in this way. In a particular case, it is the question of what if the criminal offence involved in the crime of obstruction of justice refers precisely to those covered by this criminal protection in the field of judicial or prosecutorial functions. What happens when that job stops? What about when he finishes his regular work? Then how do they enjoy criminal and legal protection? It is only then that criminal and legal protection is given to them by this member of 138, who has been amended by the Justice Committee. As regards the threatened penalties, i.e. as regards criminal sanctions, I am convinced that this category of criminal sanctions, given the qualifications set out in this provision of Article 138. The criminal code justifies the purpose of punishment, both in terms of general and in terms of special prevention. It's a matter of courts and judges to create a criminal policy against these penalties. These fines are perfectly adequate. I therefore believe that this amendment should be accepted and I urge that it be accepted as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8654	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8655	Why did I answer that? It's precisely to appeal to accept an amendment that has been agreed at the level of the board. One reason is that the penalties imposed by the proposed amendment in Article 138 of the basic text, i.e. Article 13. The draft law is absolutely in agreement with the threatened sentences of Article 336b of the basic text. Secondly, I believe that the amendment of the Committee should be accepted because the proposed amendments to the basic text of the law in Article 336b are practically about the protection of judges, public prosecutor, deputy public prosecutor and attorney precisely during the conduct of the work in the exercise of judicial and prosecutorial functions or the attorney's office if it is disrupted or prevented. When can the main threat come and happens to the judge, the prosecutor or the lawyer? Often when he finishes his actions in terms of giving a verdict or maintaining a closing statement, when he knows the position of either the prosecutor, the lawyer or the judge. In this respect, there are arguments why the amendment of the Committee should be accepted in terms of protection against the threat. In addition, I believe that the issue of a police officer should be specifically raised in this situation when they are faced with various threats, and I also believe that the suspended sentence of up to five years of imprisonment for the threat is absolutely realistic and the purpose of general prevention towards all who would do so is achieved. It is precisely the coverage of these persons covered by the proposed amendment that every potential perpetrator should be what will deter them from committing such a crime. Because right now, if we vote it out, everyone will know that they can't be impunity threatened by all those who are numbered. So, to the President of the Republic, to the People's Parliament, to the Prime Minister, to the members of the Government, to the Constitutional Court, to the Judge, to the Public Prosecutor and to the Deputy Prosecutor and to the Attorney, to the police officer and to the person who performs matters of public importance in the field of information relating to the affairs he conducts. These are all persons who should in a certain way represent a defence against crime and against corruption. That is exactly what a message should tell everyone that no one can play with anyone who should be defended against crime and corruption. And that is why, I think there are absolutely reasons why, as we have defined ourselves by a vast majority on the Justice Committee itself, I don't think only one member of the Committee voted on the proposal, in fact everyone has accepted the arguments that we have come to in the extensive, deep debate on whether something like this should be accepted or not. That is why I believe that, especially when compared to other threatened penalties, when we look at the entire Criminal Code that the amendment of the Committee has been measured properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8656	Thank you. Mr. Konstantinovic, this time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8657	Minister, I'll just take a minute. I was expecting after that first statement that you'd be able to tell us earlier what your opinion is. I simply want to encourage you after this debate that it is best that you accept the amendment of the Committee. The Committee has not so easily drawn up this amendment, therefore, has been a serious debate on the Committee and it is evident that it has been taken now that you hear what various parliamentary groups think about it. You will see that the Committee's amendment has the most in common. So, also related to the height of the sentence, but also to the circle of the person to which this member should apply. So I urge you personally to accept the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8658	Thank you. National MP Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8659	Thank you. I will not support the draft judicial committee, but I will support the amendment tabled by counterpart Snezana Stojanovic Plasic. Not because I'm a member of a judicial committee or something, but because I think it's more cellular. In addition, Mrs Plassic, she may have made some technical mistakes that can be made through the supplements to be corrected in any case, it has happened before to allow someone to do so later, but in the principle debate she made very clear and very clearly explained the example of an official officer, a young man who was killed in the most monstrous way. The public was simply crushed by such a monstrosity act. I must remind myself that justice must be the same for everyone. And it seems to me, that this is exactly the kind of crime that enables her to be selective. I think you should consider the category of person to be covered by one of these crimes, if you add police officers on one side and cover this crime, why don't you extend it to members of the army? On the other hand, I'm sorry that you weren't present at the Assembly to see the selectivity of justice at work when the proposal for a decision on the establishment of the Ankent Committee for the Testing and Determination of all facts relating to the murder of the Guardist. Honorable young men have been killed in service in a military facility, downtown Belgrade, early in the morning and there is no justice for them. The perpetrators still don't know each other, the investigation takes eight years, and they'll never know. This assembly didn't accept it. This means that this congregation does not support, in fact it supports selectivity in the conduct of justice. Think carefully about the category of person to be covered by this crime. I'll support the amendment I've already said I'll support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8660	I must say, since we have entered a little debate that is not common in parliament, because we have discussed in fact all the other amendments that will come to the amendment of one MP. They are essentially very similar or identical, but the minister cannot formally be determined according to an amendment that has not yet come to the National Assembly's agenda. I would ask that all amendments to Article 13 be discussed so that the minister can give his opinion. Thank you. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanović Plassic and Vesna Kovac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Slobodan Homen and Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 13. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8661	Amendments to the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government shall be adopted by the Government. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic and MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8662	This is, in any case, one of the key amendments that we have submitted. We felt it was not good to decriminalize the crime scene of libel. We did not expect you to accept this amendment, because it is diametrically contrary to what you claim and what you foresee in the bill. I most sincerely want to ask you – do you really think that the opportunities in the country have matured so that we can put an end to this crime without any negative consequences that can arise for society? I don't think we as a society are mature enough to put an end to this crime. In the principle debate, I explained why I share that attitude. I think that honor and reputation, primarily with us in our people, are one of the highest human values and that people in a situation not to encounter judicial protection would be able to take justice into their own hands. In the true sense of the word, to judge him who slandered them. At times, an insult to honor and reputation was much more severe than a serious physical injury. In the principle debate, you said this crime was wiped out of criminal law in some countries and you cited which countries it was. In addition, I have to tell you that these are still controversial cases and that I'm afraid that this mere imagery, in our case, would be very bad. I also want to ask you why you ask yourself, why those countries that are asking you, who are asking Serbia to decriminalise this crime, did not do the same in their criminal laws. You said that this was a criminal offence, that you deleted it from the Criminal Code because it was a concession to various associations, so you listed, among other things, the press association. And in the principle debate, I said, and I'm saying right now, that by accepting and putting aside journalistic associations, you've ignored citizens' arguments, because it's very hard to believe that civil proceedings and civil law can provide effective protection against slander. It is primarily because in practice this solution can only encourage those rich powerful men who have a lot of money and who can slander and continue without any fear of criminal sanctions. At the end of the day, this crime is the only crime where the burden of proof is on the defendant himself and, if he was erased from criminal law, the prosecutor would have to prove in a litigation that what someone was carrying out was not true. We believe that in this way, the prosecutor, or defamed person, would be brought into a very unpleasant, or uneasy situation and that his role in this case would be much worse than the role itself in the criminal code. On the other hand, in criminal proceedings, I don't think a person who defaminately can get moral satisfaction by being punished by someone who's been carrying it out with a fine, or by being able to pay the penalty. In criminal proceedings, it seeks satisfaction in that a person who was slandered will be blamed, advertised guilty, to report his conviction in KE, or criminal record. In that sense, he can get a kind of satisfaction. Like this, I don't think civil law will be able to provide effective protection against slander. When it comes to journalists, that's what I said in the principle debate itself, I don't think they have any reason to worry if they know and if they know the source of information, but if they're carrying out a certain kind of falsehood about someone else, and they can't support it with evidence, then how they should be struck by this crime. I don't think it would be a bad idea to think again about this crime not being erased from the Criminal Code, because I think it can lead to a series of negative consequences in society, because as a society, we're simply not matured to end it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8663	Thank you. MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8664	The bill leaves the existing incrimination of a crime of insult and suggests eradicating the criminal act of slander. I believe that if something was erased, it could be erased either together, or above all, an insult, and only then slander, in view of the social danger of slander. In my opinion, the social danger of slander is greater than the social danger of insult. Insult means that someone has offended someone and that insult is found out immediately and is possible in a certain way to fight. An insult is practically a picture of the one who has committed a crime of insult, while slander implies that for another one it is expressed or carried out whatever is false that can reach the slandered one, and that it does not have to immediately reach the slandered one, in terms of knowledge. There's no adequate fight against libel, because it's very difficult, if the truth goes public, to close it in any way or to explain that it's not true. There is a possibility, truth, that a property claim is put into litigation and that damage compensation is sought for, in practice, something that makes a slander, or a false act. But let us, we have data from life that often it is about insolvent persons, of which the slandered have no chance of even making material compensation, and even less to get any satisfaction in terms of something that, on the one hand, can be done through the press, radio, TV and similar funds or at a public gathering, or, what is untrue is expressed and leads to serious consequences for the damaged. It's possible to form. It is possible that there is no possibility of any material satisfaction and what remains of this man, who perhaps the only thing he has is honor and dignity, a reputation in the environment in which he lives? In this way, the man who has spent his whole life worrying about having honor and reputation, for it is the most important thing in his life, practically runs out of it. In that sense, no matter what I know about certain attitudes where this type of crime might be questioned, in any case I don't think a slander should be erased unless an insult is erased. It is only after erasing the offence that the libel should be deleted. Like this, I don't think there's any excuse for that. Out of practices from neighbouring countries that were conditioned to join the EU, we discussed this, Romania returned and incriminate the libel's criminal act after joining the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8665	The word of the Messenger of the people is Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I believe that it is absolutely necessary to support the Ministry of Justice's position when it says that it is intended for the new criminal code to erase the crime of libel. So, SNS, this is seen through this bill, fully supports freedom of the media. We've decided in every way to protect the media. It has been decided, we can say, by one joint activity of all MPs in the National Assembly, that journalists and all people associated with the journalistic protection profession and through a special form, the most difficult form of the criminal act is against security. However, libel and defamation of libel are just in step to increase media freedom and freedom of journalists. It has accepted one recommendation from the EU and the competent European institutions, that just for the sake of freedom of speech, in the first place of journalists, the defamation of the crime is lifted. In my deep conviction, the views of individual MPs are not correct, that there is not enough protection left for honor and respect. I'll remind you that there is still a crime of bringing out and passing on personal opportunities and family opportunities, if I'm not mistaken, from Article 337, and now I can't even remember if it's 337. Criminal code. There's still a whole series of crimes protected by minors. Of course, the possibility remains to seek protection of honor and respect in the case. It's a way of protecting you. It is not the insolvency of those who defamation the problem, because, in most cases, the existing case law and the existing crime of defamation are explicitly predicted that, and in practice, the penalty for the defamation is imposed in most cases. From now on, in existing court practice, those who slander are fined. If they don't have the money to pay that fine, they probably won't have the money to pay any of the other forms of compensation, but at least in a private lawsuit, the one who sues will be able to, say, charge from all future incomes, from a salary, a third of the salary, or half. Finally, we feel that the defamation should be lifted, and for the reason that, you know, I'm not really afraid that by abolishing this crime, there will be a takeover of justice in my own hands. I am glad and in some ways I am honored to belong to a people who hold so much honor and see that, even so, it defends and takes justice into their own hands. People, this is the 21st century and we have to go in line with European tendencies, we have to accept what is accepted in most European countries, and that is that slander no longer exists. There's still an insult, there's still a presentation of personal and family opportunities, and there are still crimes concerning the protection of minors, and here I mean children, all those who are subject to slander. In one word, there shouldn't be so much fear of abolishing the crime of slander. It is necessary to allow courts to create one practice in a litigation procedure to protect honor and reputation through compensation for damages. What I particularly stress, I will end up with, and until now, in judicial judgments for the defamation of the crime, a fine has been pronounced. So, nothing in particular is lost. I think we should support the Ministry of Justice's position that is fully in line with European standards and with requests, wishes, not to mention the demands of journalists' associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8667	The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8668	You see, it's not the same thing about special prevention if someone's threatened to commit a defamation and threatens to be a convicted person, regardless, even if it's a fine. He who has significant financial resources is easy for him to slander another and pay, to ask how much further it costs to slander you. But if it says that the person is convicted, the question is whether or not he's going to break up like that and say, well, I don't want to tell the truth. In that sense, I believe there are certain reasons. This is where we talk about the reasons pro et counter, for and against, whether we're mature enough to decriminalize the crime of defamation. This is not about the right of journalists to give criticism, that some information, which it reaches, is placed in the means of information, and in any case whoever brings out and delivers whatever is false, which may harm his honor and reputation, it is not about him who is even a court of value or anything else. To tell someone the truth, put yourself in that position one of you says to any of you – he, I don't know who else he puts his hand in his pocket and pulls out the money. It's slander. If you feel that no one to whom such a thing is said will carry it on himself as an insult of honor and respect, and I will accept the proposal set out in the bill. But I find it different. That if you say something like that... (President: Time, Mr. Mikovic. From time to time. Just one more sentence. (President: Unfortunately, it is impossible, but finish. ) So, one thing is when someone offends and says, "You took money from someone else's pocket, and he answered it, and another thing is when they tell a third person and they bring such an untruth." In that sense, I'm still behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8669	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8670	Thank you. I also submitted one amendment to this same article.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8671	Please wait for his turn, so we don't interfere. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8672	Mr. Minister, I think it's a good thing that slander is lifted. I don't know a lot of cases, there's probably a statistic that someone got a prison sentence for libel, but I didn't have something like that in my practice. It all comes down to coming to an investigative judge, letting them go to investigative stores, and then standing in investigative stores for years. It's completely pointless for it to be a crime. So, there's a satisfaction in civil-legal dispute, a property claim you can point out in a civil-legal dispute and you can get cash compensation. In that sense, I support you. What I don't understand is, and it seems to me it's probably some kind of failure, which is that you didn't open Article 170. - an insult. If there are any more changes in the next period, I suggest we end the crime of insult, as we end the defamation of the same reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8673	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8674	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's really not easy for me to admit, but here I support the bill of amendments and additions to the Penal Code, in this part of which the crime of libel is erased. I really think there's a lack of a criminal offense here. The previous government did propose such a kind of amendment to the existing Criminal Code. It's a shame that the bill was withdrawn from the procedure. Curvets and insults are not threatened with jail time. There's only fine. On the other hand, there is the possibility that in the case, immaterial damage may be compensated because of insult or slander. It is absolutely unnecessary for anyone to be punished for the crime of slander in one criminal act. It is good that at least this will reduce the costs of conducting criminal proceedings. Earlier, a colleague spoke of the fact that even the investigation was conducted in the event of a defamation or an insult, which is completely unnecessary, completely meaningless, and at that cost. Therefore, do not say that we never praise you. In this case, we commend both the Minister and the Government. Keep up the good work. Whenever you make a good suggestion, whenever you do something good, normally we'll commend it, but that doesn't mean we'll be more merciful to you. We really feel that this bill is very problematic and that it was simply not meant to reach the congregation procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8675	The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8676	Mr. Minister, of course, this solution is not going to help me to commend you. I'm sorry I don't share my opinion with my colleagues about some of the other key provisions of the law. I think it's completely unnecessary for us to discuss now whose arguments are stronger, because in this assembly, the arguments don't win, but the number of 126 wins. Just because I think it's the best proof, how right we'll be, the time that will show just that. I think we'll discuss this very quickly again. I will no longer enter into a debate as to whether the defamation of the defamation should remain as such or not in the Criminal Code, but I find it very confusing to explain why you are abolishing the criminal act of slander. I think these reasons that are mentioned in the bill are pretty cheap. It is said to be done because it has been a requirement for a large number of associations and the professional public, especially journalists' associations. If, under the professional public, we can implement a working group that worked on the draft of this code, then I can say that, as far as I know, they have not given consent to such a provision and in that sense, it is difficult for us to talk about the arguments and requests of the expert public.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8677	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanović Plassic and Vesna Kovac. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Mrs. Snezana Stojanović Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8678	Also, I belong to that group of MPs who believe that slander should remain a crime. The reason for the EU is certainly something I am happy to accept, because I believe that Serbia needs its legislation to bring it into line with EU legislation. However, I belong to the number of citizens who believe that this should be done primarily in the interests of the citizens of Serbia and that this should be done in accordance with the opportunities that our society has. I believe Serbia is changing for itself, not for the EU. Once mature and changed enough, then it will become an EU member. I would like to remind myself that there is certainly another set of years ahead of us on this road and that we will have room to fully agree our legislation with the EU. It seems to me that we don't have to come up with solutions that, perhaps, in our society, have not come to terms. As for journalists' associations and freedoms and the rights of journalists, I absolutely advocate their freedoms and rights, but I am convinced that journalists in Serbia are not asking for the right to slander someone. I am absolutely certain that they do not advocate such journalism and that there are serious news associations in Serbia, several news associations that we know of, I am fully convinced that they did not stand behind the view that they are looking for the right to slander someone. Why do I believe that slander should remain? I also believe that it is one species, first of all, satisfaction for someone who is slandered, but also a form of prevention in a society where the system of values is still being established. It is very important to establish a stable system of values in our society. It's very important in our society to know who's responsible for something, and who's not guilty, to know, to use an ugly word, who's a thief, and who's not a thief. We will admit that in our public space, such words are very easy to use and very easy to prescribe to people certain things that absolutely cannot be proved. It's not just for us who do public work, it's true for all other citizens. This applies to doctors, for whom occasionally or often you can also hear slander. This applies to teachers and many other professions in our society. For lawyers not to talk. So for many other professions or individuals in our society you can very easily hear qualifications that absolutely do not stand. I believe it's very important to send a message in which we will cultivate the right to hear the truth, but to have it sanctioned. I don't think it's anyone's personal matter. It's not a personal matter of slandered people. I believe that's an important question for our society. That's why I believe this act should be punishable under the Criminal Code. I believe that, as a society, we send an important message. I'd really like to have a fully arranged situation in the media area, but we all know that's not so, that it's still very often a vague ownership structure in the media, that the concentration of ownership is still undefined. These are all the laws that await us in the field of information, so in that period I don't think we should leave a completely open area for abuses. I repeat, I am convinced that journalists do not seek for themselves the right to slander other people and to talk to them about what the right solution is. That's one thing. The other thing is, as I said, slander is not at all an act for which perpetrators are just journalists, so I don't think it should be defended in that way. Given the reasons you state, which is primarily the pressure of journalists' associations, I have submitted one amendment to which I have introduced an additional protection, so to say, for the press, so I said that this work will not be pursued by journalists who present the argumented criticism of politicians, or public officials, in accordance with the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, because it is clearly defined here what public officials are. So, by doing so, I seem to have introduced a fence that defines that this is not about the argumentable criticism of journalists, but also that this work does not only apply to public officials, but to all citizens who are also to be taken into account. I had a chance to follow one process where one politician slandered another politician, or politician. I can tell you that this politician didn't matter for a moment whether she got the money or started a civil lawsuit afterwards. The money, I think, is completely irrelevant in this matter. It doesn't matter to me whether he's insolvent or insolvent. What's important is that you get the satisfaction that the person who slandered you is guilty of this crime. I believe that's what true satisfaction is. Also, that inconsistencies with leaving an insult as a crime, which is a foggy, hard to prove, a criminal act of minor importance, and removing slander, I think, is something that is not justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8679	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8680	In any case, I will also support the proposal's solution. I am a proponent of abolishing libel, as some of my colleagues here have already said, because the condemning verdict is actually in criminal proceedings, which has always been brought on the criminal part of the slander, usually for the injured is no satisfaction, but for him only one more strong evidence and one more argument which he will use in a litigation procedure that will be initiated by filing an action for the compensation of immaterial damages. It is only a complete absurdity, and in this sense I also support the legislator, and I believe that wasting valuable time is a waste of valuable time, both the one who engages in criminal and litigation proceedings and the judge who is acting, because in practice it is always a common position that the litigation is actually interrupted until the criminal proceedings are closed just after criminal charges of defamation, so that almost exactly this litigation is interrupted. Satisfaction damaged by a private criminal lawsuit, as counterpart Konstantinovic well noted, is never a condemning verdict, but the amount that will be damaged in the name of an immaterial damage compensation due to various suffering mental pains will be settled and achieved in the litigation process. After all, I agree with that, and I also support the promoter in that part, leaving even an insult. So they don't have to slander us, it's enough to offend us, and it's a broader crime, so I absolutely support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8681	Thank you. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanović Plavsic, Jelena Travar Miljevic and Vesna Kovac. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Snezana Stojanović Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8682	Thank you. I believe this is an amendment that should be supported by everyone and I don't understand why the amendment was rejected. In fact, we supported a legal solution that introduced additional protection when it comes to illicit sexual acts. So it extended that protection to other illicit sexual acts when it comes to children and persons who are mentally disturbed. We have increased this sentence to two to ten years in relation to the proposed solution. However, we have introduced attitude 5 and attitude 6 where a minimum sentence of at least five years is imposed in case a serious physical injury occurs, and in case death occurs for at least ten years. You, in your explanation for the rejection of the amendment, have said that these last two acts are unnecessary. I remind you, in that same article, we already have attitude three and attitude four, where these penalties are also imposed. So, let me explain, point 3 is said: if, as a result of the work of this member, there was a serious physical injury to the person to whom the work was committed, or if the work was carried out by a number of persons, or in a particularly cruel way, or in a particularly humiliating way, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of two to ten years. If the death of a person occurs, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of at least five years. We introduce additional solutions when these faces are underage, or when it comes to children and introduce the lowest penalty of 5 years and 10 years. So here only additionally introduces punishment, i.e. a higher minimum of punishment, when particularly severe consequences or deaths arise over minors. So, kids and underage faces. I don't know if it's necessary to explain again, I agree that death is the most difficult consequence, but when it happens in carrying out illicit sexual acts on children, I believe it certainly requires a higher minimum, or stricter sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8683	Thank you. Members of the 16th Amendment include Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Joseph Shandor. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The word of the messenger of the people is Joseph Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8684	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, if you'll excuse me just a few words just to comment on the amendment you accepted. I have to tell you that at the beginning of October when I was staying home one weekend, I got a call from the president of the municipality that I was supposed to show up for an emergency meeting, or a choir of citizens. Because of the citizens, they called themselves into the revolution, because during this year, it means this year 2012. In three, four times, an attack, or robbery, was carried out on them. Somewhere around 150 people were in that room where we were, a part of the people couldn't even get in. At that meeting, three conclusions were reached in agreement with the Chief of Police with the president of the municipality, namely me as a National MP, and I was given three assignments to settle here in the National Assembly. The first assignment is to the police, to fill the police force, so I wouldn't torture you because it's not your portfolio. However, the other two conclusions are in your portfolio, and one refers precisely to what you have accepted to Article 16 and Article 18 respectively. Proposal for a Code of Criminal Code Act. The amendment is to reduce from a 15 thousand limit to five thousand, the limit that counts for the state to initiate the procedure, or to pursue the crime. Since both amendments have been accepted, I would like to express the satisfaction of what you did, although that is true, that the citizens mainly wanted to and asked them to minimise as much as possible, i.e. to be zero tolerance in this case. I have not submitted such an amendment, realizing that there are serious costs, i.e. certain minimums below which a certain procedure is not worth launching. But perhaps in a future future period when we sharpen certain things may be worth looking at, for example. The law of Hungary where they made zero tolerance might be worth a look at. As for the second conclusion, that is to say, of your resolution ministry, citizens have estimated that it is not enough to reconcile this law, but something else needs to be done. In this area, several courts have closed down in the course of judicial reform. Citizens of Sainte, Kanjije, Ade and surrounding towns, Choke, New Prince travels 50 miles when litigation is made. We think we'd make it a lot easier in that part of the situation if we passed a law on the return of some judicial units. Two months ago, if I'm not mistaken, you've also announced that this is a bill on the return of remote judicial units, so I was obliged to make sure that citizens, people in the area of the North-Barrant district and the North-Bačka district can't wait to put it on the agenda. I thank you once again for accepting the amendments and expressing the satisfaction of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8685	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Slavica Saveljic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8686	Thank you. The amendment submitted by the RAS MP aims not only to lower the censorship when the procedure is being initiated under official duty. Therefore, from the existing law 15 and proposed 10 to 5 thousand as our MP suggested, it aims to prevent this possibility of punishment, not only consequently, from affecting those who commit certain crimes and crimes. In a country where minimum earnings are barely about 20,000 dinars, we felt that the 15 thousand limit is really too high because it seems stimulating to those who choose to steal. It was precisely because of a mild criminal policy that many cases had not been prosecuted during the previous period, and as a result, a large number of perpetrators were returning to the old trade. I'm going to give an example of the city I come from, when, for example, in 2011, only one case was prosecuted in a private lawsuit over a small part of the theft, and this year, by the end of October, none. In the same period, we observe in 2011 and 2012, the number of petty thefts reported during that period was as much as 7,130 and by October 6,700 months in this year. If on average the value of the theft was 10,000 dinars, we come up with a figure that the total damage was caused by over 71 million dinars, or 700 thousand euros, only for 2011. Such petty thefts are, in fact, the most frequently exposed to ordinary citizens and those whose value is 15 thousand is very high. Those who often cannot pay long and expensive court proceedings in order to prosecute someone in private procedures are sometimes more expensive than the value itself, and therefore private lawsuits do not move, but that is why citizens remain both damaged and unprotected. We felt that this border was necessary to take down. We have proposed that limit of 5,000 dinars, precisely to protect the damaged, and those who commit crimes, punished and, on the other hand, destimulated to commit crimes. On behalf of the URS parliamentary group, I would like to thank the government for accepting this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8687	Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8688	I'll thank the government the same if he accepts this amendment. I have already praised the search for the proposal's intention to prescribe a new criminal act called agreeing on the outcome of the competition. I also believe that the provision of such a proposed member is lumpy for the reason that only the agreement is incriminating, regardless of the person's characteristics. That's exactly why I've tabled an amendment to this proposed member of the law and made a determination of the perpetrators of the crime. The proposed amendment actually prescribes the properties that the perpetrator of this crime is, and it is, the criminal part of the settlement of the outcome. I think I have done this proposed amendment to specify the perpetrators of the crime, because I have prescribed the properties that the perpetrator must have that he would be considered the perpetrator of that crime, not some other criminal act, because I consider the term extremely casual, especially in criminal and legal terminology.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8689	Thank you. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, the MPs together Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Karolj Chizik, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic and together Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Pek submitted the same text. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8690	Dear President, Ministers, fellow MPs, I would like to express my gratitude for accepting that amendment, but I ask one question, why did only the ambassadors from Vojvodina submit the amendment? Perhaps because in Vojvodina, really petty thefts have taken on a very large wave, even in some municipalities people, to defend themselves against all of it, organized civilian guards which were not good. They steal from trafo stations to railways, by house, people can't keep their property, so I think lowering the censorship to 5,000 is really good, but the ministers, I'd ask you if the funds were intended, extra funds for it, because I believe there will be more cases, that the public prosecutors will have to work more, because if that amendment is accepted, I think they'll act on it. I would also like to say, in my personal opinion, but it has been proven that petty thefts have taken up so much power, for this reason there are very few police officers, it is known how many officers are coming to Vojvodina, and I think in all of Serbia, that it is not only a problem in Vojvodina, that there may be a very small number of police officers in Vojvodina, and my LSV party has been looking for management for a long time, or police administration for Vojvodina, which I think would be nothing wrong, because we had it until the "Yogurt Revolution" and then Vojvodina was really the safest region in all of Europe. Simply, it would only lead to a better organisation, the police would function better, the police commanders would be elected in Vojvodina, but they would answer to the police minister, so I think that the future needs to be considered and that the amendment is good and it's good that you accepted it, but in order to improve the situation in Vojvodina, we should continue to think about the police administration in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8691	The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jožef Shandor, Ana Novkovic, Rajko Stevanovic, Nenad Kitanovic and Sasa Milenic. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, this amendment to the URS parliamentary group was not only submitted by MEPs from Vojvodina, but from Šumadia, southern and eastern Serbia, so that the problem was spread throughout Serbia's territory. We have a situation today that prosecutors can only react to the official duty of over 15,000 dinar theft. It's not a small amount for our citizens who have small incomes and hard to live for. If someone steals you today, and that damage is no more than 15,000 dinars, you yourself must seek justice in court, hire a lawyer, pay taxes, wait a few years, spend a lot of time in court, and if the damaged has no money or property to compensate for damages, the procedure is suspended temporarily. Because of this, petty thefts have become common and have become everyday. They steal from stores, even if the owner of the store, the seller catches the thief and calls the police, and they won't come, if the value of the stolen goods is below 15,000 dinars. It goes even so far that at this time pigs get into people's backyards, smokes, steals dry meat, steals from freezers, enters the gardens in the summer and steals their vegetables, something that people find hard to come by and what they mean, bikes are stolen from the yard, parts from parking lot, cars, and all that is later sold to fleas. Many don't even leave their homes to preserve their own property, and as the colleague said, citizens in some places were also thinking about civilian guards, which is really not the solution, because this is what the state needs to worry about. On the other hand, a bad message is being sent that the theft is worth it, the thieves have even reported themselves and stolen under censorship, that 15,000, because they know they won't be processed, they steal the same person over and over again. That is why my colleagues and I at the URS Parliament Club have proposed to reduce the amount of 15,000 to 5,000, which would allow a significant number of small-time theft, evasion and fraud to be prosecuted, and thus a greater number of perpetrators of these crimes would be prosecuted. We think it's high time the state showed determination and protected the property of its citizens. I look forward and thank you for the government's acceptance of my amendment and amendment to the U.S. MPs. I also express my satisfaction, since in tonight's debate a series of amendments were adopted and the debate is constructive, regardless of what is being conducted this late, but it is in the citizens' interest, precisely because of this problem, which I have submitted the amendment, a lot of people have personally complained to me, were unhappy, even angry and angry, and they felt helpless and I think that after this we can send them a better message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8693	National MP Judita Popovic submitted to article 21. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Judith Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8694	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is the amendment, in fact, to prove that it is a little earlier praise at the level of one incident, because this article 21 could have been much more precise and clear to define a criminal act, which could have committed a responsible person. I have shown this amendment to the Government exactly what should be done, that is, the legislator, in order to create a very good legal solution, and in fact to simplify the procedure in the prosecution of perpetrators of a crime. I have defined that a responsible person who intends to obtain an illegal property benefit or other material damage, use his position or authority, exceed the limit of his authority or fail to carry out his duty, will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years. In such a defined criminal act, you have the exact intention, imagination, marked illegality, property benefit. The benefit is precisely defined as property and you have damage that can only be material, and the perpetrator must use his position or authority to exceed the limits of his authority or fail to carry out his duty. In this way there is no doubt, you have a clear, precise crime without being able to interpret it too widely and to introduce some discretionary assessment when determining whether or not the act has been done. That's how criminal acts should be defined in the Criminal Code. If you take our way of thinking about reforming criminal law, I think we'll get a good new Criminal Code in the future. I hope you accept our positive criticism.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8695	The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8696	I support the introduction of a new criminal act of abuse of the official's position, although I personally do not consider it necessary to erase the crime of insecure work in business, because only the criminal act is applied not only to social enterprises, as the promoter says, but also to public enterprises. It is precisely the managers of these public enterprises who very often know and know what practice has proved, that they are unconsciously doing business and that they are doing damage to our very country. I recommend, too, that another amendment be analysed in detail. On the other hand, the description of this crime is identical to the description of the crime scene of abuse of official position. The word "official" is missing and the words "infringement of the right of the other" are missing. In everything else incrimination and this crime will remain exactly the same. Everything else, therefore, is identical and nothing has changed. What does that really mean? This means that abuse of the official position is precisely in the form that Europe is constantly criticising us and that the experts have not actually changed at all. So it's not a neck, it's a neck, it's a simple thing to say. Unable to erase the abuse of the official position of the responsible person, not to be true, in fact, the essential erasure of this crime, so as not to prescribe a whole range of new crimes. Then we should not, as I have already mentioned in the debate in principle, have been distracting anyone, especially the EU, that we have actually abolished something when we have not abolished it. On the other hand, there are some questions I would like the minister to listen to and, if possible, to answer those questions. I, for the sake of the ban on retroactive application of criminal law, question whether there will be a dilemma and whether the ongoing proceedings for the abuse of an official position that has been committed precisely by the responsible person will now be suspended, since the responsible persons are not able to commit the crime on the proposal, but they may commit the crime referred to in Article 245. A criminal code that didn't exist as a felony at the time of execution. That's my first question. Or almost identical to this formulation of abuse of official position, in fact by formulating the abuse of the position of responsible person, will lead to the view that this first act actually consumed the second act, and that as such it was prescribed at the time of the execution of the act. What the third question would ask is, of course, a question of limitations. What about this case?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8697	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Ljuban Panic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Olga Batić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8698	I just want to say that I'm not going to report to any of the following amendments so that this working people who stayed up late will be rested and ready for tomorrow's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8699	I must say that we are always very careful to follow your statements and that I am pleased when you defend your amendments, as well as other amendments, of course. The 29th Amendment was submitted by MPs together Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic, Jovan Palalic and MP Ljuban Panic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic, Jovan Palalic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Slobodan Homen and Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanović Plassic and Vesna Kovač. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 32. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8700	The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8701	Thank you, Minister. Member of the 33rd Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Milic, Judita Popovic, Bojan Đurić and Natasa Micic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8702	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a criminal act of abuse of office. It's obviously an anachronous crime. Obviously, however, there was no political will now to change this crime significantly or simply to delete it. This crime only changes in one small part of its work in terms of a responsible person who is now being transferred to a new crime. It's abuse of a responsible person's position in the economy, so there's no significant change in this crime. Unfortunately, there is still no defined benefit in terms of property benefit, we still have no intention, there are some serious elements missing, which could abuse the official position to bring in the purposes, not to remain one crime that can be interpreted too widely, in which much can be entered into, in which crime many people can be prosecuted for various reasons, often for retaliatory purposes, for some political accounting, etc. So, simply, it has to be excluded that kind of possibility of insinuation, that it will abuse the position of one who wants to prosecute someone in some way, and there is no other crime that can be put on him. So, literally, this crime can generate another kind of abuse of official position. Unfortunately, for decades, this crime has been done, in fact, made possible and given opportunity to prosecutors, that whenever they do not have enough evidence to launch criminal prosecution for another particular crime, for a particular person, in which case it simply applies this institute of abuse of official office. This is inadmissible, since this is 21st century, so it would be good to reform criminal law on this crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8703	Thank you. Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanović Plassic and Vladimir Ilic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljuban Panic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 45. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8704	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-20-0.u8705	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the CRIME PROCEDURE You have received amendments submitted by MPs Srdjan Miković and Olgica Batić to the bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I remind you that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law is in accordance with Article 163. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected an amendment that added a new Article 2a, which was submitted by MP Olgica Batic, after Article 2. I also remind you that, according to Article 163(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 163 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 163 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 163 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 4 of Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I apologize, Mr. Mikovic withdrew the amendments submitted to Article 1 and to Article 2. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON COMPLETE OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY LAW Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle, and given the fact that no amendments have been submitted under the draft law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in voting day, decide on the draft law in general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON SUPPLEMENT OF JUDGMENTS The National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in voting day, decide on the draft law in general. This concludes our work and continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
