ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3356	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I originally thought I'd ask Minister Dinkic, but since he's not here, I think the first vice president, Mr. Vukic, can give an answer. The issue concerns privatisation and actually the announced review of very poor privatisation, at least in cases where very drastically damaged general interest. Privatisations have been announced in large systems, in large companies, however, my particular question is whether this process will cover all these bad privatisations, all these very drastic privatisation processes, in which not only have workers lost their jobs, but it has been destroyed or is still being destroyed, this process is under way, social property has been created for years? In particular, in Presevo, which was the most underdeveloped and thus had low production capacity, it is allowed to sell these production capacities to non-serious customers and not meet even the basic criteria, the terms of the purchase agreements, nor was production restored, nor were the basic conditions for workers' rights met, I mean the payment of contributions, pension and health insurance. Today these workers are not only unemployed, but they can't retire. There are very difficult individual dramas caused by one state action, what one law in this Assembly adopted, and implemented by the Privatisation Agency. For example, you have "Electrocontact" in Presevo, a Kobajagi protection company has been sold for 2,700 euros, and property is estimated somewhere above 500,000 euros. Where's the logic? The plastic factory, with about 150 and more workers earlier, isn't working now. A very significant business space is empty, and the customer took the machines from Presevo to Leskovac and absolutely now the most underdeveloped municipality falls even deeper into underdevelopment. I think the basic question is, what are we going to do next, and does he have the strength to reconsider all these situations? I asked Minister Dinkic a few times... (President: You're out of time. All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3357	Thank you. Does the Deputy Prime Minister want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Alexander Vukitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3358	I'd like to thank Mr. Halimi for asking. I can't give you a complete answer right now, but what I can tell you is that it's our intention, our intensity is that everywhere is possible, and especially where, as you have pointed out yourself, there is an unequivocal execution of the crime and where no social programs have been implemented, or anything else, that we are going to review such privatisations. It is neither an easy nor a simple process, but at the same time and at any time, we must take care of legal certainty, and I ask you not to blame us for not always being able to act as a state as well as your citizens might want, as our citizens would like, as quickly and as simply as possible. Something more complicated is the process itself, we have to respect the full legal procedure. What I promise you, it is that we will try to investigate as many cases as possible, to bring back to people at least part of justice and justice, and to enable, if anything, at least in certain cases a better future for those companies to work for a very long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3359	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halima. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3360	I'll just use this right. Since I have already mentioned Minister Dinkic, I have asked here several times about another privatisation of the company "Brothership", which was with a predetermined buyer. It said there he could buy a company that has a four-star hotel, so the locals couldn't compete, but for now they have the right to buy from that predetermined buyer at much higher prices. The favored buyer will now, instead of about 200,000 euros in purchases at 15 of the most important and best clubs in Presevo, get a safe five to 10 triple price. The basic question is - was the purpose of privatisation to speed up this economic development, to give to the private sector, because the trade in Presevo was in private hands before? But in this case, by those who decided in the privatisation process no benefit, no aid was given to those domestic privates, who 15-20 years ago knew the process was working. I think it's another cause or argument, what Mr. Vukic said, that in all these environments and smaller ones, because for them are large systems and companies with 100-150 workers, because it can never happen there again. Of course, it is worth a serious review of this whole process and all the cases and seeing what can be done throughout society, and in this case, in this most underdeveloped case, to try to save at least something from all these illegal or, as I say, harmful procedures, and to provide adequate assistance to that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3361	The next registered speaker is MP Nikola Tulimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3362	Dear colleagues, given that I have sent a letter to everyone regarding a referendum that would be called "Kosovo or the EU" in the media, which is the main issue for the government and given the composition we currently have here, I think it would be more appropriate for Mr. Vukic to answer if that is not the problem. The question is, in short, how the media formulates, of course, is not allowed by the Constitution at all, but the question can be rephrased. What I want to know, and when I say I want to know, I think that really many citizens in Serbia want to know, is, in the spring of next year, are we going to have a chance to say something that is obviously necessary, which is whether we will join the EU without Kosovo or are we going to try to keep Kosovo within Serbia's borders? In doing so, I want to point out right away, I am not someone who is a prophet and who can immediately say that if we give up the EU we will surely preserve Kosovo, but what is certain for all those who are directed and who want to speak the truth, that we will not enter the EU under the given circumstances with Kosovo. That's why I think citizens are already now, and the sooner they should put their opinion on the subject, in the Constitution, the allowed way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3363	Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3364	All citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so much more, the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia must adhere to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The territory of the Republic of Serbia is very clearly defined, and the component of the Republic of Serbia is Kosovo and Metohija. We are defined for Serbia's European path. We're trying to get a date for starting negotiations. We'll try to get that date, and I think it's expected, because we're not going with any unrealistic ambitions, to get that date before June next year. There are some indications that it might be possible earlier, but it always seems to me that it's better to watch things realistically than with over-optimism. So we're moving around all the time and you're right, on one thin wire to preserve our national and state interests from one side, but also on the other, so that we don't endanger our national and state interests on another issue that this government also considers vitally important, which is the European path of Serbia. In these frameworks, we will move on this thin wire in the future, and I think it would be wrong if, before anyone has set us up, any condition, and before any of us has asked us to plead in any way, whether in this way or possibly without the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, we ourselves are going to go out in front of our citizens. So we didn't get that condition. Is everything comfortable and is everything easy? Of course he's not, and he shouldn't be particularly wise, so he notices. So our choice is also due to the economic improvement of citizens, while at the same time wanting to preserve the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, we continue to lead politics in this way. Believe me, every day we look at all the alternatives, everything that comes, because politics is a dynamic process and everything that happens to us and what comes from the West and the East. To try to find absolutely the best solutions for our country. It seems to me, even though those solutions were once extorted to us, it seems to me that the better we couldn't find. So no one will be happy, no one will ever be satisfied with the solutions we'll come up with, but sometimes they're being extorted, or to be more precise, it's impossible to find better solutions. So there won't be a referendum unless there's any conditioning, open conditioning, as you mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3365	Here you go, Mr. Tulimirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3366	A comment, and in a way, a question. I understand that pressures are being made today in this particular segment, and I think the referendum would help, and the formulation if you came from the assumption that Kosovo or the EU, of course, besides being unauthorized, was problematic and there is no reason to get into it before the time. But some formulation that would have read, would you like to suspend the suspension of European integration before... We have serious EU confirmations that they will never put that condition before us. That's something, of course, has to be formulated simpler and I'm not going to go into simpler formulations right now, it's important that you understand me. I think it would be easier for you if it turns out that Serbia has a clear view on this issue because citizens have stopped behind whoever answers to stop, then you will have a clearer and more passing situation where you simply have more power for someone from the EU to pressure you and condition you. You will say, citizens have said, if you are asking us for Kosovo, there is nothing since joining the EU, and we also know that, as for some reasons, it is appropriate for Serbia to join the EU, so the EU is responsible for one day covering the entire continent if possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3367	The next word is MP Emir Elfic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3368	Dear Prime Minister, honourable government representatives and distinguished fellow MPs, I would like to make a few comments on the phenomenon that is already beginning to be a common picture on our sports grounds, on our sporting events and games, where we simply have continued outflows of national and even racist messages that offend certain communities and certain groups. Yesterday at the stadium in Novi Pazar as a result of the transparency and rebus that appeared at the stadium in the previous period, another degutan transparent appeared. I want to express my position to condemn the messages of this kind no matter who they come from or whom they are addressed because I am against insulting the victims of any community. My question is simple, and that is -- is this the result of a systemic error where in previous times it has obviously not responded adequately or is it an attempt to re-instruct flammable topics in Sandzak where public attention is being turned away from the current issues of Kosovo and also from those of the current and life issues of the Sandzak region? I wanted to ask this question to the prime minister, he's not here today, so I really think it would be best if the first Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Vukic did so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3369	Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3370	Dear Mr. Elfiæ, we've had three such cases in the past few days, I wouldn't have identified them, but I wouldn't have had a bad reaction to a part of the fan in Pazar to justify a bad, slightly less bad or equally bad step by fans of a Belgrade club. So, if you're asking me if the Serbian Government condemns the transparency of "the knife, the wire, the silver one"? Yeah, he's judging him. But I also have to admit that I'm appalled by the monster, this is monstrous, and this might be something that should be built on a higher level, and I don't know how to do it, simply through the transparency of "the kidney, the heart, the lungs -- the living yellow house". Alluding how nice it is to have Albanians extract live organs from Serbs and how happy and proud some people are, I suppose, because of the extraordinary work. Like we can't always be proud of our audience's reaction to certain dark-roaded football players. I think that both transparency is a disgrace to each and every one of us and that as I have tried not to find better or worse, in this case, I would ask you not to ask for it, because maybe we belong to different peoples, because our job is the same, and what I want to tell you is that this would not be the story of the two politicians, the state authorities will take measures in both cases. So, no difference, it's not a question of what we used to talk about, hate language, it's just so degutant that it's pointless to comment, that it's impossible to find another expression, and I don't even think that the question for us is that I'm giving certain political assessments of all this, but it's a matter of urgent and adequate reactions from the state authorities. I can assure you that this reaction will be rapid and will be as effective as I said it would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3371	Mr. Elfic, would you like to ask a further question?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3372	I thank you for your response, and I really do, and I totally agree with you that there is no need to build a town that is more degutant than the other, because both of them, in their own way, reflect one horror that happened to both community members and I really don't want to be subjective in this situation, but I have to express my position, not in terms of subjectivity, as I said, but I don't think the public reacted enough in the situation when the event at Rada Stadium happened, that this is one article that I took off the internet, and many were similar to him, where that event was accompanied in a way that fans were throwing torches and insulting on a national basis where it literally marginalized what happened. My question is really crucial and systematically set, are we ready as a society and as a state to call hooliganism hooliganism, to call such extremist outbursts anyone to do it because advanced countries in the environment, in the EU have solved these problems in an adequate way and I fully agree with you that this should be put into the frameworks of the law. There's one more thing I want to point out here. I am sorry that Mr. Rasim Ljajic is not here today at the session, because it is known that his political party through local self-government is fully controlled by the New Pazar football club, is extremely close to the group of fans who showed that transparency in the stadium, and also a certain number of these people are working in local self-government in Novi Pazar.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3373	Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3374	My colleague Ljajic is not here, but I'm sure he would be disgusted by all such transparencys and inscriptions at any stadium to happen. So I'll just try to give you an extra answer. I accept our guilt if you think we're responsible for any media silence, I want to tell you that's not our goal. As I said to the whole Serbian public a moment ago unequivocally and openly, what the Government of the Republic of Serbia thinks about this, I think they are much more important works. We're going to have to seriously cut it down, because it's a matter of state functioning. No one can be stronger than the state, it's the definition of the state, it rests on a monopoly of physical nature, but it rests on democratic principles that must also be respected, and accordingly it's not rare for you in Pasadena or some other parts of California to see the entire stadium in the Mexicans, not the American flags, which most Americans don't like, but until they make violence and while everyone stands still on the American anthem, no one is making a problem. So I am convinced that most Serbian citizens don't like it when they see Turkey or the Bosnian flag on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but until no one makes a mess, until no one challenges anyone, until it threatens anyone, it was a matter that the government tolerated and it's a democratic issue for all of us. However, when it moves from flag to organ extraction, to knives, axes and everything else, that state must no longer and has the right to remain silent as I have told you, the state will not remain silent. I ask the people for a little patience, it will last for a short time, within a few days, the wrongdoers will be brought in, and they will answer to justice for what they have done. No one with the state and the citizens of this country, with their national, religious and other feelings, can play.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3375	Mr. Elfic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3376	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie, for that conclusion. I'll just say one last sentence at the end and I'll end it. I don't want this unpleasant event at the stadium in Novi Pazar not to be treated as a Bosniak stance, because such outbursts are not in the tradition of the Bosniak people. I also believe that those past outbursts are not the message of the Serb people to the Bosniak people and to point out that there are extremely good international relations in Sandzak, Novi Pazar, and that I believe that the stance of the Bosniak and Serb communities in Novi Pazar, that the trust that exists between us, where we live together and share a common space, will not be able to usurp such, similar or similar incidents.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3377	The word has a national emissary of Dragan Mijatov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3378	Dear Prime Ministers, my question today has been addressed to Health Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, and it is related to the work of the Novosad Gynaecology and Accumulation Clinic. A few days ago, a young woman in the country complained that she had to go to the New Sad maternity office urgently, it wasn't a work day, it turned out it was Saturday, and it was due to a serious health problem. In the E.R., it was examined, and then it was directed to extract blood and to bring the results to the doctor who examined it, and it wouldn't be such a big problem for me, but the lady was sent to one of the private laboratories in Novi Sad. It was Saturday, it wasn't a day's work, none of the private labs in Novi Sad worked, and that's why she had to wait until Monday to do those results. My question is, why is the patient, who, with a certified health book, appeared in the office of duty, sent to a private laboratory, where the results had to be delivered, and how they were charged, and why they could not do so in a health care facility such as the Novosad Gynaecology and obstetrics clinic, where women are born and treated from the territory of the entire province. I have another short question, while we are already in this topic, about this health care facility, because a few years ago a reconstructed part of the building of the Novosad maternity facility and in this project of funds were put together by the republic and provinces, I am interested in whether the reconstruction plan and the second part of the building of the Novosad maternity center, since it now has an emergency service, i.e. the duty department and is currently working in inhumane conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3379	The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3380	I appreciate the question, but I have to say I'm simply surprised that in one big New Sad where there are all types of health institutions and primary and secondary health care, so also health homes and a clinical center have problems like this. The right of the patient is to determine whether he wants to do an analysis in one institution or another, but simply in institutions, there is both room and professional and complete obligations of healthcare professionals to provide health care for 24 hours, especially patients who are from the diagnostic category circle – urgently. Of course, your question for me is also an assignment, but I can't tell you anything concrete about why it happened until I get an insight through the proper inspection services, but I'll certainly do it. On the other part of your question, I would like to say that the reconstruction of four clinical centres actually started eight years ago and that this year the body of the health ministry that was in charge of design activities, the project unit, did not complete the project. What I had to do, unfortunately, is transform that body and take certain steps in the ministry, to first complete the project task in order to go through further procedures, including, of course, construction works and equipment procurement. When it comes to the Nis Clinical Centre, he was the most far away in the preparation of this documentation, and by my assessment in the first half of the following year he will start with construction works in Nis, then Novi Sad, then Kragujevac, and it is very likely that for Belgrade who did the least, and why I say Belgrade was least done, because the directors of the organisational units participated in the business, not only those who were engaged in this project unit. So, it's very likely that so far there are no plans for next calendar year to work in Belgrade. Whether the maternity ward will have better spatial conditions when this part is finished, so the reconstruction of the New Sad Clinical Center, I believe the maternity ward will be a priority.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3381	Thank you. Miss Mijatov, would you like a comment?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3382	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3383	No, good. Thank you. The next word is MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3384	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Dear gentlemen and Madam Ministers, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I will try to fit my time in three questions that I would ask Mr Selakovic, but he is not present today, so I will take advantage of Mr Vukic's presence. My first question is that the strong fight against corruption, crime, which you are currently leading Mr. Vukic, who is sincerely supported by the SPO, must be followed by the adoption of a law on the origin of property. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Party of Serbia have advocated the passing of this law, which is important in the fight against corruption and crime. I even think that even a good part of the election campaign has just been devoted to all the shortcomings that arise beyond the adoption of one of these laws. The privatisation that was implemented without the existence of a law on restitution, but in particular the law on the origin of property, has shown all its weaknesses, whose ultimate result has been threatened by the resistance of a large number of citizens on the one hand, and the incredibly fast wealth of a small number of people who became owners of yesterday's state and social assets on the other. So my question is clear whether or not the law on the origin of the property will be passed? The second question concerns the work of courts. All of us sitting here wish the courts to be independent and independent state bodies, protecting the freedoms and rights of citizens and working on the basis of the Constitution, laws and other general acts. In fact, all of us MPs here in the assembly benches bear great responsibility, we must not play with the public's credentials, nor abuse them. We are not and must not be above the Constitution and the law by not allowing cases where actors and individuals are sitting in congregation benches today. I'll just point out that a while ago we had, so to speak, the case of Nenada Chanka, where the man did what he did and immediately after that he resigned as MPs, to show that immunity does not protect him for what he did. At the same time, we have several MPs, quite reliable information we have, against which the prosecution, based on an investigation conducted by economic crime, has filed criminal charges. The prosecution, of course, launched an investigation, even processed those people who were in a hierarchical position lower below those people who are now MPs. Even the process is over against some, and those who are MPs today, who were the most responsible for what was going on behind that dirty or negative action. Their cases are ticking in place, and my question refers specifically to the Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, whether in one of the drawers is the subject of one of the MPs sitting in the RS Assembly today. My third question... (President: Your time is up, wait for an additional question. All right, all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3385	Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3386	I thank Mr Gojkovic. As for the law on the origin of property, this law would greatly facilitate the work of the state authorities because I don't have to tell you, so I'm going to try to tell you now how many difficulties, how much trouble people are facing today are fighting corruption and what it takes to do. You, if you have certain knowledge of the execution of crimes, you know that the prosecutor has to give up PO so that the investigative authorities can go to a particular company, a particular company, to build, to conduct these investigations. The prosecutor can say - I didn't get something that would give me a reasonable basis for doubt, and that you don't have a chance to do that. The Law on the Origin of Assets would have contributed greatly to the strengthening of such a kind of struggle and I think that the Ministry of Justice will work on this bill in the coming period together with the Ministry of Finance, Mr Dinkic, and I expect you not to hold me for a month, but in the near period you see certain changes and on this issue, here in the National Assembly of the RS. As far as parliamentary immunity is concerned, it is a constitutional category, but if you ask me what we think and what attitude the government will take, we discussed it in the first cases when immunity was needed. I don't know exactly what the case is about the New York D.A.'s office. If it's any of the SNS MPs, I'll tell you they won't be hiding behind immunity, if you say it isn't, O-kay, someone else. I think you'll agree on one principle, we agreed at the time of Mr. Kostunica's government. It was some kind of informal agreement that all people accepted and I think it's rational, but I'm willing to accept different ideas as well. I think the assembly speaker should protect people from the spoken word, therefore, that no one should answer for verbal communication, because he also sent to his fellow MP what is meant, but no one else who participates in the public life of the Republic of Serbia. Everything else, from abuse of official office to all long crimes involving those crimes involving corruption and crime, should therefore not protect any MPs. I think it's an important thing to say to the citizens that we're all equal, that we're all exactly the same under the law, that there's no protection against the law, and I'm convinced that you and all the other opposition MPs will accept it, because I don't see any reason for any of the MPs to be, if he committed any crime, protected by parliamentary immunity. I think that this is a good message to the citizens at the moment we want to say, not because it is a condition for us to make progress in the EU, but because I think it is a condition of our country's survival, that it is very important that we promote the idea of zero tolerance of crime and corruption, and that is why I am fully in agreement with you. So, there are cases if you're sued by a neighbor for a spoken word, then it's pointless to have an immunity hearing here, but I'm sorry, if you're being prosecuted by an organized crime prosecutor, or if you're being prosecuted by the prosecution because of the abuse of official office or tax evasion, fraud, any other crime, then it's both immoral and unfair that the government supports or hides such MPs from prosecution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3387	Thank you. Mr. Gojkovic, do you want an additional question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3388	Thanks for the explanation. I'd just like to add this second question, if you'll allow me, the third one that will be very brief. I'm talking about precise data, it's at least one MP in the current assembly, who was charged with economic crime, the prosecution conducted an investigation and only that man remained out of reach of the law, and all of his associates who performed his duties were the subject of an investigation, or were already convicted. It's just amazing that someone, especially the media, doesn't believe there's some kind of protection behind it. To me as an MP, I trust most of my colleagues, who we do our jobs fairly, have always been a big problem when, I say, it's globally looked at the entire parliament and when, because of what individuals do, they have to suffer at least the media all those honest MPs who do their job normally and correctly. I'd just like to add a third question, if you'll excuse me, I think you might be able to give me a clear, short answer. It's Princess Jelisaveta Karajordjevic. Will the state return the villa to Dedinj in Užička 1, Princess Jelisaveti Karadjordjevic, who is owned by Olga Karadjordjevic, who was confiscated by the state after World War II and is presently held by the Montenegrin Embassy? We recently saw that the remains of Prince Paul from Switzerland to Serbia were transferred, which is more than good. The state of Serbia has thus shown that it respects the most common and most frequent people in our history who are a symbol of true patriotism, which Serbia once had. I don't think this is just about the mere correction of one of the past injustices, but the opportunity to finally begin to create a new system of values, where the least educated, most educated people in our history, and not fake patriots, which today, unfortunately, Serbia is full of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3389	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3390	I want to thank you for these words, but there was indeed a President of the Republic who was particularly engaged and his cabinet. I don't know what's the formality of the villa and the possible return of property, but you'll allow me to prepare an answer for the next session. I'll deliver it to you in writing in the meantime. If there is any need for further information to be provided, we will also give you oral information.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3391	Thank you. Mr. Gojkovic, you have two minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3392	I can only thank you for your answers and for what you do in the fight against crime and corruption. The Serbian Renewal Movement will always support such actions if they are sincere, not selective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3393	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3394	My parliamentary question was addressed last month to the minister of education, science and technological development. Today I see that Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, is not present, but I would ask the same question again – what happens to textbooks for national minorities, for disabled children, who enter the low-level textbooks? It's October 25th. Students still don't have those books, and books refer to every class from first to eighth grade. Meanwhile, as I examined what was happening to textbooks in Russian, I was also contacted by members of other national communities, both Macedonians and Romanians and Slovaks and Hungarians and Croats and Bunjevi. They all have the same problem. Students do not have one third of the textbooks they need for certain classes. I also contacted the national councils of the national communities and received information that on 17 September 2012, the coordination of national councils, which covers all national councils, sent a letter to the ministry and informed the problem that low-level textbooks simply did not arrive at the classrooms and students who needed them. Until today's co-ordination of national councils has not received any notice from the Ministry of Education, and these days they have sent a memo again. And I contacted them today, and they didn't get any notice until today when they'd get those textbooks. All that month, I kind of devoted myself to communication between the ministry and the Public Book Company. I was told at the Ministry that it was in charge of the Bureau. The Institute said it had received some funds from the ministry to print these textbooks, but that they were in a blockade, that they had no money to issue those textbooks. I think that the funds, which were somehow meant for low-cost textbooks, were lost or redistributed for some other purpose, so I would ask once again Resolute Minister Zarko Obradovic - what happens to these low-priced textbooks, when they will be printed, because they are not new textbooks, it's just printing textbooks that are missing and does he think it will be soon, because when the textbooks arrive in February it really won't make sense?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3395	Thank you. Do any of the members of the government want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3396	Dear Mrs. Papuga, I apologize for the fact that I do not like to pretend and answer in general, which should be heard by people in Serbia, and that it does not mean anything, since we do not have enough information about this case, we will inform the minister that in the most urgent time in writing, you and the citizens of Serbia, as I think the issue you have raised is very important. Thank you and forgive me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3397	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3398	I would ask you to do so as quickly as possible, because this correspondence lasts a month between me, the ministry and the Public Business "The Bookshop". It's just that time is passing, and it's really not about some new textbooks, it's just about printing. The fifth grade math is 15, but it takes 30. So it's about still printing 30 textbooks that have both the license and everything that's needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3399	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3400	I have now received information that Mr. Obradovic is not present because of his medical condition, so please excuse us once again. I will personally insist and ask Mr Obradovic to give you an answer by the end of the week, and even to contact you personally if your help is needed to explain everything you have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3401	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3402	I wanted to ask more questions to Mr. Knezevic, the Minister of Agriculture. Since he's not here, I'm going to ask the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic. The first topic I want to deal with is blocking the Ministry of Agriculture's account. A few days ago, the news leaked that the accumulated old debts in the Ministry of Agriculture have led to a blockage of accounts and even a questionable payment of subsidies to farmers. However, the payment of subsidies for agriculture is made from a special account, which is not blocked, and the payment of funds according to executive solutions based on forced collection is made from the account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's what the Ministry of Finance and Business said. The question for you is what is the current situation and is the problem solved, who is wrong, the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Finance and Economy? The second topic I want to open is a set of measures brought by the government on August 30th to facilitate the effects of drought on agricultural producers. As far as I am aware, the first measure is that registered agricultural holdings, which have concluded short- and long-term loans, where the Ministry of Agriculture has subsidised the interest rate, allow for an additional grace period of one year, during which they do not return the principal to banks and continue to pay only the agreed interest. Unfortunately, on the ground, this measure doesn't work at all. Banks seem to have not heard of this measure, blocking accounts for producers who have not paid back their debt. Moreover, they add and tighten interest, set deadlines for manufacturers to pay the amount. I'm interested in what you do to solve the problem and when will you reach a final deal with the banks? The last topic I am interested in is a visit to the government of the Republic of Serbia, Abu Dhabi, where a memorandum of understanding was signed with the United Arab Emirates to persist in the area of agriculture. The agreement envisions joint investments in ten agricultural holdings, currently owned by state property, which have about 9,000 ha of land. As noted, the joint company would be leased another 16,000 ha of state in the long term, with an annual rent of up to 250 euros per hectare. What I'm interested in, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, is what do you personally think about this cooperation, how do you want to implement this action and give state-owned agricultural land without a tender to hire foreigners and that the restitution is not over? I'm interested in whether the Agricultural Land Act will be changed, since, under this law, foreigners do not have the right to rent state agricultural land, the right to rent is reserved by agricultural producers living in the Catastrian municipality where the state land is located? I'm interested in where these foreigners are going to work, are they in Vojvodina? In Vojvodina, in some municipalities, producers pay as much as 40,000-50,000 dinars and more per hectare of the state. It is a far greater sum than 250 euros. How do you propose to issue so many state estates to foreigners who will only export agricultural products? Isn't it an interest for our agricultural producers to be leased under favourable conditions?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3403	The word has a Minister Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3404	Dear Mr. Fremond, I will try to answer your first and third questions. You will not be angry that I cannot give you a valid answer, but I will encourage Mr. Knezevic to answer you as soon as possible. We had a serious dialogue at the Ministry of Agriculture, as we have at the Ministry of Defence, as we have at the Ministry of Defense and in some other ministries, where there is enforcement of the judicial verdicts and where you happen to be suddenly removed from the account of 10, 20, 50, in this case there were words of 60 million. It's not a small amount of money, and that's the moment we reacted, I know the whole thing by accident. This had to be discussed by Mr Selakovic and Mr Dinkic and Mr Knezevic, the problem was solved and as far as it was concerned, it was actually an attempt. Someone says the Ministry of Agriculture won't be able to function. Although this is a very big problem for us, if I told you how much we have because of the verdicts made, how much the Ministry of Defence has to pay off, I think the citizens of Serbia would be scared. We must, as Mr Gojkovic said earlier, respect the independence of the courts and what the courts have done as a judicial verdict. You have to settle it and that was the reason for this kind of indifference of the Ministry of Agriculture and 48 hours. As for the third question and the investment of the United Arab Emirates, I would like to say that with the representatives of the company that Mr Dinkic spoke with, is one, today by chance believe it or not, talking and talking about the company and the foreign minister, Secretary of State Mr. Haig, it is one of the best companies in the world. I've seen different titles, because our people usually like to underestimate and like to talk with submission and debauchery, I'm not saying it applies to you at all. I'm talking about some newspaper headlines we haven't responded to, I'm talking about those whose results we've seen and whose results have led us to this difficult situation. I was present in the part of the conversation, I spoke with the head man of the United Emirates, along with Mr Dinkic, that's Sheik Muhammad. It's one of the richest countries in the world. Whoever attracts their investments, whoever attracts their money, he has done a great thing for his country. I'll let you know, for example, in 2009, we didn't have enough hearing for the reception of one of their ministers and that the minister, just because he was admitted the same day instead of here in Albania, left 20m euros to the Albanian government for an unsettled runway. So much for all our mistakes, for underestimating those who don't sound at first sight, as the United States, Russia and some other country sounds to us. As for the actual deal, you said that some pay 40 grand, but that's very rare as you know. There's a lot more of those who pay 10 grand, up to 10 and 15 and up to 20 grand. The largest number of salaries up to 20 grand and we did some analysis, since I also saw the results of that analysis in Abu Dhabi before we went on a date. I'm sorry, 250 euros is close to 30,000 dinars. If someone enters, and has an obligation to provide a full irrigation of 25,000 hectares, and that is just the beginning of their investment, I can't, because of the military secret I'm talking about what we agreed on and what we immediately signed "EMOJA" and I expect to sign a contract in November, which might be the biggest development contract for the Serbian industry, about the development of certain missile systems. So, joint investment and I really think it's about good and not bad things. If anyone wants to welcome everyone to the knife, I repeat, I don't mean you either. Everything the government does will always say – it's bad, mostly because it comes from itself. Auto-projection is a miracle. Some, starting to laugh when Mr. Gojkovic says he congratulates someone for the sincere fight against corruption. They think it's funny. I'll tell you why they think it's funny. Because they know that they would never fight corruption and because they know that it would be a matter of how much money they would put in their pockets and where and how they would spend it. Then they can't imagine that there are different people than them or possibly people who aren't as bad as them, so they always go from being made bad against the state. I am convinced that everything that has been discussed in the United Arab Emirates is of great interest to the citizens of Serbia and to this country. We can't go in there. It can be entered, which Mr Dinkic insisted, to be quite honest with you, it is to make an agreement to sign an interstate agreement in the future, because without an interstate agreement we cannot go into that kind of realization. We don't have a problem, because there were some people who came forward for these companies and that particular country. In advance, I talked to Mr Dinkic about it, we offer them in advance to buy everything without a tender. We'll find a way however we want or we'll make a tender, let them buy at that price, let them work that land, let the state get that money, let there be no parched fields like we have today as long as you want and no problem, we accept that job. So someone doesn't say someone took something or anything. Since I think things are completely clean, clean as the sun, and I'd like you to personally make sure that you participate in the whole procedure. If you tell us that you think it's possible to get more money, I promise you in advance that we will not participate in such a business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3405	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3406	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your answers. As far as the first subject is concerned, I was glad to see a solution to this problem quickly. It's in the interest of the development of the city and in the interest of all of us. About the second topic, I hope you'll look into what happened. I hope you and the banks find a common language, I mean the Ministry of Agriculture. This is extremely important if the government wants to build trust between agricultural producers and itself. What matters most is that you honor what you promised farmers. As for your response to the assignment of agricultural land to foreign persons, I cannot fully agree with this as a good solution. I know, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that the agreement provides for a joint programme and investment in modern irrigation systems, which would cover a million hectares of farmland in Serbia. Now only 100,000 acres are irrigated. We also heard that the Emirates would provide financial resources to modernise the existing and build a new channel network, and Serbia would repay them through years-long guaranteed deliveries of different agricultural products, wheat, corn, meat. We agree here and I don't see anything wrong with it. Let them invest, let us pay it to agricultural products, but to rent them agricultural land, it is extremely harmful and inadmissible, primarily for our agricultural producers. Foreign citizens can't buy agricultural land with us until 2017. On the other hand, the possibility of foreign citizens buying agricultural land in our country depends on whether Lithuania will ratify our Stabilisation and Association Agreement. When they ratify it, the foreigners will be able to buy agricultural land within four years and I don't think that's good. We see that in the environment every country tries to prevent foreigners from taking agricultural land or buying it. He wants me to draw your attention to another problem about possession of the size of agricultural land. For example, in Hungary, under the proposed agricultural land law, it is envisaged that the family estate should not have more than 500 hectares in its possession. A private person must not have more than 300 hectares, until economic operators have more than 1,200 hectares in possession. We're bringing in foreigners to rent 25,000 acres of agricultural land to harm all of us and agricultural producers. I find that extremely dangerous and I appeal to you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, to prevent it. I suggest that you investigate as quickly as possible and that some businessmen have come into possession of thousands of acres of Vojvodina. We need to change the Agricultural Land Act, through which we need to determine the maximum private person can own, and we need to do everything possible to ensure that foreigners do not reach our agricultural land.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3407	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3408	I'll be brief. I'm sorry and thank you for the additional question. So everything you've said multiple times we'll analyze. This is just a memorandum of understanding. Just please don't be so exclusive and analyze it again. I'm even ready, and I'm going to suggest to Mr. Knezevic and Dinkic that you come along with us, when their delegations come to Belgrade in November, to come with us and talk together. I have to admit, I don't see any harmfulness, especially when we have so many percent of the country that we're renting land at the average significantly lower prices, when at the same time we're not benefiting from it in any way. I'll take it one more time. They can't take that land and put it on a plane and take it away. I even think we're having trouble with foreign investment because of the Building Land Act, if you ask me. What, then, will we have in the National Assembly if we try to change the Law on Building Land? Then someone will say, "If a stranger can own it, we will lose the land." Simply, I want to tell you that our job is to make the best possible investment environment for investment in this country, that we acted accordingly, that we got, because it works in a slightly different way in some Arab countries, as you know, as you do with us, is a different culture, is a different civilization, and that we've worked really hard to show what our country has and where, in which all areas we'd like to attract their capital. So, once again, please, we will be free to invite you, and you come along to participate and point to every detail where you see and where you think there is any violation of our national interests, the interests of peasants or anyone else. I think it's in the best interest of the Serbian state, but I'm willing to make it easy for both you and everyone else who has a different opinion. We're not making a deal that would be bad for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3409	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Ljubica Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable members of the government, before I start with my questions, I don't think I'm going to be able to get answers to the questions I'm going to ask, so I'd like to ask that within eight days, as the law requires. My question will be about an important segment of our economy, which is bankruptcy, or bankruptcy. The law on bankruptcy in Article 5 promotes the principle of economicity of this procedure in as short a time as possible and with as little cost as possible, and in Article 8 that bankruptcy proceedings are urgent, without interruption and impasse. However, while the start of the new 2009 Banking Act is significantly shortened the duration of the bankruptcy process, a number of cases remain, several hundred of them, where the procedure has been under way for three to four years and even more, and there have been such cases that have been conducted for decades. In a conversation with the Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic, we agreed that this difficulty in certain bankruptcy procedures is unacceptable and that this is a violation of civil rights, and it is not necessary to mention the effects on economic flows in the country. I'm aware that a part of the guilt lies in the impetuousness of suffocating objects. With this, my parliamentary question – did the Ministry of Finance and Industry consider the effects of the efficiency of the implementation and duration of bankruptcy procedures? Are the options considered to be possible to amend legal regulations in order to speed up the bankruptcy process, and in particular to speed up bankruptcy proceedings based on earlier legal solutions, i.e. the possibility to restrict the duration of the bankruptcy proceedings to a certain period of time by amending the law on bankruptcy? The next question is – what will be the criteria for survival, i.e. the liquidation of firms in restructuring and which are announced for 2014? Is it only a criterion if there are customers or if there is a possibility of revitalisation through placement on the domestic and foreign market and if it has its own resources, such as the Shamot, the Arangelovac factory, its own orphanage, the possibility of placing goods in Serbia's Thermopower Plant, and at the same time saving the state for obtaining incentives to restore financial production in order to survive? The question is – why do not tenders are announced for firms in restructuring? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3411	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3412	As far as bankruptcy proceedings are concerned, I share my opinion with you. We are dissatisfied with the speed and efficiency these procedures are taking place and the plan is to amend the regulation on this. We are thinking about legally limiting the period of bankruptcy, but we are also thinking about limiting and reducing the fee that bankruptcy managers receive in proportion to the length of the duration of the procedure. Those who continue to conduct bankruptcy proceedings will have a reduction in the compensation for the work. The longer they work, the less the compensation is reduced until it's equal to zero. So, we're going to make a formula for the bankruptcy compensation to be exactly the proportional speed of their work in procedures. Some actions probably take a long time, but not everyone, they most complicated require a long time. The only way to motivate managers to work faster is to reduce their flow fee and the length of the bankruptcy proceedings. So, yes, we're planning changes in regulation. All proposals from the MPs, including you, will be more than welcome. As far as restructuring plans are concerned, simply, our government can no longer tolerate the fact that these companies create a total loss for Serbia's 750m-euro economy every year. The losses are not only seen in direct subsidies from the government's budget, but above all in indirect losses due to not paying any bills to suppliers, utility bills. The World Bank's overall estimate is that these losses reach 750m euros annually, with the largest indirect losses. That is why we have proposed that we adopt the Government in the coming weeks and propose to Parliament by the end of November a change in the Law on Privatisation, where the restructuring period would be limited by 30 June 2014. We believe that this year and a half, a little bit more, is an appropriate deadline to be seen, of course, with our help as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which businesses can survive on the market. We'll try to help each individual find the right partners. One that can possibly, with a little bit of support, become self-sustainable, and that's what we're going to do, and we're going to do it and we're going to do the restructuring process, which will then restructure the debts of the past and sort of regulate it. I'm going to give an example, the TV Bor is now self-associated. Until a year ago, he was stockpiling huge losses. They didn't pay electricity bills, they didn't pay taxes, they didn't pay contributions. Now they pay for it all, but the rest are debts from the past. For such companies that can be self-sustainable, we will look for a way to resolve their problem permanently through the restructuring of these debts and then they will be alone on the market without finding strategic partners. It is not realistic for others that we can solve the problem without finding strategic partners. We won't be slaves to the strict methods of privatizing such enterprises at all. We will use all available techniques, from classic tenders, auctions, to sale only assets, without obligation, with the obligation to take over employees, joint investments. So all possible models will be used only to find suitable partners so that these people have a sustainable job and that these companies have some perspective. If some companies remain, and likely will remain those who will not be able to be self-sustainable after 30 June 2014, such companies will go bankrupt, with the payment of the social programme for employees working in them. We're going to try to go ahead and try to help these companies as much as possible, help them find their partners, but also to motivate their leadership to use it through reduced subsidies. The government of the Republic of Serbia cannot, however much it wishes, reach all 170 municipalities in Serbia to solve any problem. The management of these companies must also do something for their businesses, for workers who work there, and in this way, we hope to successfully end by 30 June 2014, since the permanent concept of restructuring is lifted and then all businesses in Serbia will be exposed to the exact same conditions, they will have to settle all obligations. It is a very ambitious plan, however, together with the World Bank, we intend to carry it out decisively and to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3413	The word is made by the People's Messenger Ljubica Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3414	First, I'd like to apologize to Mr. Dinkic. I didn't notice he was here. He wasn't there at first, so that's why I said the opening sentence. I'm sorry. I am pleased with the answers, however, I would just like to point out because here I pointed out "Shamoth" Arangelovac, Mine, "Shamoth" Arandelovac Industry, who was once a giant in all of Serbia, also known in Yugoslavia, which is now working, producing and exporting its goods, however, has problems with us in Serbia and cannot possibly get into the business of Termoelectrica Obrenovac, for which other companies are working with poor quality. We're looking for the help of the entire government to help get Shamoth involved with his products for the Obrenovac Termo Power Plant.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3415	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3416	Dear Vice-Presidents, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we're going to have to reform the institute to ask questions like this. To me today was absolutely amazing, this is the ninth question, and I think it will be the first one on the crucial point, about the crucial event that happened today, which is the adoption of the 2013 budget proposal. The colleagues didn't talk about it, at one point I was afraid that maybe the budget might be marked – state secrets, so maybe we can't talk about it. Of course, I'm kidding, but that's the most serious question that comes before us. I'm going to ask the government, and above all, it's a political question for me, so then the government's top official here, the first Deputy Prime Minister, not Mr Dinkic, we've listened to his optimistic prognosis and we'll probably listen to them in the next 20 days or months as long as it takes us to adopt the budget. My first question is, Mr. Vukic, you and your party, what is your feeling, do the other coalition partners really believe in what was put into the 2013 Budget proposal? They're not familiar with these details yet, but I'm sure you've spoken seriously about it today, at least you know the basic size of the draft budget. Do you really believe it's possible to lower the deficit to 3.5%? Do you believe it is possible, without any serious savings, because it is not in the draft budget, to lower the deficit by almost 80 billion dinars, or should I say 750m euros? Where do you see the space for those savings? I'll tell you why I'm asking this. I think the 2013 budget proposal is actually a political diagnosis of the political situation in your ruling coalition, i.e. in the government, that it was made without any ambition to last all year in 2013, that it was based on the same foundations on which it was created and now the already famous budget of Cvetkovic's government, in which your coalition partners today were, for 2012, with the ambition to endure several months, then to be breached on every possible part – to enter either into a rebalancing or to make a different budget or through some kind of pre-composition, this is a popular word these days, to make a different ruling coalition, or to allow, through the transfer of responsibilities to one of the coalition partners, or a different rebalance at some point in 2013. What am I saying this for? Minister Dinkic is very often talking about his ambitious plan to cut the cost of guarantees for losing public enterprises. Perhaps we would believe that your ruling coalition did not come before this House. The law will be on the agenda in a few days, which guarantees the government, or guarantees from Serbia's budget for a series of loans, for seven loans to the Serbian public company, for 190m euros. These are loans whose payments will start next year. I warn you that interest on these loans at this time is from 6% to 7.5% at the rate of the eurobor which will never be as low as today, will only be higher in the future when these loans will be paid off. (President: Time. ) I don't think it's the primary responsibility of Mr. Bajatovic, he buys gas at a higher price than the price at which he sells, that's the consequence.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3417	Time, Mr. Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3418	Today we have adopted the draft budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and will be presented to the People's MPs of the Republic of Serbia in the form of the proposal. What this government can praise, and we will see what will eventually be the result, can be praised for not underestimating the people's MPs to the public of Serbia, that in time the budget will arrive in the Assembly, that we will not adopt it in a minute to twelve or after twelve, as it has happened in our previous years. We weren't just talking about this budget today. We've been talking about this proposal for days and weeks. As soon as the budget rebalance ended, we moved on to Serbia's budget, wishing to reduce the deficit to 4% or 3.5%, as Minister Dinkic said. I think they were surprised even at the IMF. Mr Dinkic could tell you more about it. I think their condition was about 4% to go, that even they didn't insist that we lower that deficit that much. Will we succeed in bringing down that deficit by 100 billion like our wish, as may be optimistic forecasts, as you say - I hope so. I'm convinced that if we succeed 80 billion and 85 billion to achieve a deficit reduction, I'm sorry, it's an extraordinary result for a government like this. When you talk about the government's political diagnosis, I'd like to talk about the diagnosis of the situation. We're someone who has to come and get what's most of it delivered to him. You can't get anything out of anything. You can't find the refrigerator in an empty house or in ruins and get the most delicious and most beautiful cake out of it – it's impossible. No one will be happy with the budget. You will always be able to tell us with the right -- you could have made more savings on the one hand. So we could have done a better cost-effectiveness side, and it's quite certain that we could have done something better on the income side. I must say that, compared to all previous governments, this budget will be more sustainable, more transparent and in any case incomparably better for Serbian citizens because of a dramatic reduction in the budget deficit. Will we be able to fulfill all that we have promised as politicians to the citizens? No, but that will be the power of this government to show that precisely because we're thinking about the future of the state, not about what's going to happen in the next six months or a year, but about what's going to happen in two or three years, and that's why we're acting like this. Not one minister was right. To each of us who are in charge of certain sectors, we all had some objections. Everyone. Everyone wanted to be better ministers, a little more money. But we all stopped and said -- wait, it's the state, if we cut our appetites, if we're a little worse ministers, the state will get better. It's better that people are angry at us individually because we won't be able to increase their salaries by as much as people would like and as much as it takes, because we won't be able to do any other giving, because we won't be able to provide special services so much, because we won't be able to increase our journals and I don't know what it is. So it's better that we accept it on our backs than that it goes on as it was in this election year where there's been budget redistribution on all sides, whatever you want, where the budget actually didn't exist. It was – spending the money as they arrive to you, and how you can think of it, without any control, without anything. I want only when you talk about public enterprises and what it is that the Government guarantees for loans taken by public enterprises to remind you of the example of the Belgrade City Assembly. Of course, these are incomparably minor obligations. See how many loans public enterprises were guaranteed by the Belgrade City Assembly, where interest rates were more than those you speak of. I don't mind that your political party didn't mind supporting it. I just want to tell you that the question is, do we have a choice? Yeah. We get the gas at 52, and we sell 35. Yeah, that's what we do. Yes, we have a problem because it's our poor population. What we need to tell the people - you don't have the money, you barely get the end done, now we're going to raise to 60 so we can have the profit. We have a problem with the EPS. The EPS at this point has, you know, it's not a matter of loss, it's easy to lose with it, 41 billion missing liquid assets, so it's not done by the current EPS director who was put there 15 days ago, it's done by previous management. 41 billion missing money in the bloodstream, the company can't function. You can't function at all. Now we have to tell the people, that we're sending dying messages, people are going to have enough power, it's going to be all in the best of work, and more people are going to swear on the street if one of us comes to terms -- sorry about 3%, 5% or 9% of them have to increase the price of electricity. Then we say -- we're not going to increase the price of electricity, because we're making some arrangements with the Republika Srpska, we're making other arrangements, we're looking at how to avoid it right now. I want to tell you that we are in a very difficult situation. I know it's the opposition's job to criticize, that's what I've been doing, and I don't blame you for a single word, not a single word, not a way, not anything else. I just want to tell you, and you know it perfectly well, the government is facing insurmountable difficulties, with so much heavy stuff that it's not solved. We're looking to find the best way out of a difficult situation. I've told you now what the EPS situation is like. You want me to tell you that every day it's torture to convince the CEO of the EPS to continue any work at all when there's no liquid assets, when we had to refuse the "RV" and certain observations on Moravi and now the Germans think we're refusing them because we don't have 180,000 euros at that time to pay for observation? You want me to tell you that we have the same problems with the Chinese in Kostolc? Are you saying we have thousands of problems like that? We do. We have thousands of problems, but these are the problems that have been left behind and now some of these problems have to be solved. If we were able to reduce the budget deficit, so if we'd cut it by 2%, by 1%, that would have earned some kind of praise, some kind of recognition -- you did something. Whether or not, we'll see, as you say at the end of the year, will there be a rebalancing? I hope not. I want to tell you that we've all spoken to IMF representatives. Their representatives come, I think, next week to Belgrade and are very interested in continuing talks with our government. I expect us to reach an agreement with them. So they're going to verify our efforts, although I think they think maybe 3.5 can't reach, but they think 4% of what's available for the government. I'm sorry, compared to 7%, it's a terrible success and the result the government is planning and trying to make. About the other political details, I'm sorry, I wouldn't look back on that and I wouldn't be answering that right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3419	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3420	Thank you for your response, but there's a huge problem. Even in the 2012 draft budget, the deficit is not projected at 6.7 or 6.8, but at 4.25, and now you say it is realistic to expect, or your expectation, to be around 4 in this year's budget. And last year it happened to be a double deficit in the end. I don't understand why you're trying to explain to me what was going on in the last government. The LDP may have criticised such behaviour in the most severe way than I do today in relation to the behaviour of your party or your government. All that you resent the internal structure of the EPS, the work of the Ministry of Energy which is the last time and in this government in some way in charge of it, you would have to resolve it with your coalition partners. That's why I say it's a political diagnosis of relations since in the past Government, the Ministry of Energy, at least at this final stage, did Mr. Mrkonjic, who is present here, manage it. I believe you when you say you want to change things, but then I get disappointed when I see what the working biography of a man who becomes the director of the Colubar Business Society looks like. You can't convince me that you want to run this company seriously. It's a man who's been said to own a roaster. I don't underestimate that. I just don't think a man of such quality can be a good director, as I thought Mr. Ceran could be, even though he's an MP, a high-ranking state official, a party official, can't be a good director in his last term. Do you think the best solution is for Mr. Krkobic to be the director of a company that has an annual budget of 220m euros? Is it such a problem when we ask for Mr. Krkobbiæ's workbook to be delivered, so let's see if he has qualifications for such a thing? That's what my question is. These other relationships need to be clarified with your partners. Meanwhile, I have seen that one of the coalition's parties, Mr Ilic, is not there, if I understand correctly, New Serbia has very sharp objections to the economic measures of this government. I suppose it's a reaction to today's decision to adopt the budget. So, you're criticizing the fundamental things in the budget that you're proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3421	Mr. Wolfie has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3422	So there are New Serbia MPs, I would not speak for them, but Mr Ilic voted today at a session of the government of the Republic of Serbia for the proposed budget. So I wouldn't say it's entirely true. I want to say a few things, which are important, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, for the sake of the public. I am very respectful and you have noticed that when I come here to the National Assembly I am trying, I have been a Parliamentarian for many years, to respectfully address every MP and not to go into trivial political issues, but thank you for giving me the opportunity to answer a few lies or, let me better call it, the untruths and nonsense that go through the public about some people who come to certain places that are significant in this country. So for days we've been criticized and attacked as government in the most brutal way, slightly ridiculed, and no one understood why. I didn't understand. I ask these geniuses, who give us political sermons or in their newspapers, I don't care what we deserve, and what did they deserve to be above us and attack us like that? When we talk about some people, I will remind you that for the first time in modern Serbian history in the last 22 years as director of Telecom, how the most significant public enterprise in Serbia has been designated, a man who has never set foot in the SNS room, whom none of us knew. It was named because it was professional and because it existed, I would say, a general consensus on it and because we don't want to suck money out of our strongest public enterprise and spend it on party purposes, as was the case in all previous periods. An impressive biography man has been appointed as the CEO of the EPS. I'd like you to tell me which of the previous governments has placed someone with a stronger and better biography than Mr. Alexander Obradovic's biography? I read different jokes about who his advisor was, they lied all the time, he wasn't a counselor, he was an associate. He's an associate, not a counselor. I'm asking you to appreciate people by their biography, but first of all, according to their results. I'm sure after a while you'll see huge progress compared to how it worked before. As for the facts that the ministry has been working on, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic may have been in charge for two months, but the directors of Elektroprivreda have always been under the control of another party now in opposition. As for Mr. Greek and Mr. Krkobibic, I will try to answer for both of you. So Mr. Greek worked together with Mr. Ceran at the same place. It's the previous director of the Colubare. They worked together at SO Obrenovac. Otherwise, Mr. Grcic is a visper and capable man, very disciplined, very responsible, and I am convinced that the Colubare results will be much better than before. I'm surprised that you, Mr. Djuric, fell for it because if I were you, why did the text against Mr. Mica Grcic come out that day? I'll tell you why. He came out because he asked for some papers that day, and some didn't like what kind of papers he was looking for. Then, before certain trade unions, they staged a hack on him through some radio and television stations and some newspapers. I'm sorry, because someone once held a roaster, I worked at fairs in England, hardware shops, as a waiter, never ashamed of it, and then I got a very high education and with the highest grades, I graduated from Belgrade. So, what I'm saying is, I don't know what that means. Does that define someone's expertise, what someone used to do somewhere? I'm sorry, I have to admit I don't understand that kind of argument. If you have to tell me that Mr. Greek stole something somewhere, took something somewhere, that he won't be able to do the job, I'm going to ask you to just show patience for a few months, two or three months, and then tell me if he can or can't do the job. If he can't, I'll agree with you and we'll change that. We've been trying to set up executives, you'll notice, and a few younger people, people from the profession, and we'll try to get better results from those executives. The only thing I can't stand, and I can't let people get high is because some businessmen, together with some politicians, are equally wealthy, are trying to make this government a devil, and have an increase in their incomes compared to 2001, through their companies of 250,000 percent. Even when you respond to such attacks, and one of them was in the newspaper of Miroslav Miskovic and Dragan Djilas today, where it was said that I offered the place of consul in Thessaloniki to have power in Pozarevec, I don't know how they're not ashamed to say something like that, so the SNS replied to those two people, you think someone can announce that the SNS had something to say? I'm the only one who can speak from this pay phone, because it's a lot of powerful people, a lot of important people. I want to tell them that I'm not scared of them and that they'll never scare me, no matter how rich they are, no matter how much media they control and no matter how many stories they make up and put into public against certain people who need to perform important state functions. If they thought they'd run into the same mollusk they'd encountered before, with whom they could do whatever they wanted, a little money, a little media to get to them, I just want to say for the sake of the public, for the sake of those who came -- to scare me with the media and the money, they've been wrong. We've been through the worst media campaigns, beastly media campaigns in the election campaign. It was not intended for beasts, what SNS members went through, primarily Tomislav Nikolic and I at the time. Write what you want, do what you want, but threaten and send signals to the state in such a way that you can do anything because you control the newspaper, because you control television, and that's fine, we understand. Thank you, dear friends. There are some of us who haven't been scared and who'll know we'll respond to your signals. As for Mr. Krkobbic, I would also ask you to wait, because I don't think he's here, to see his results, to see if the results in the next period will be better or worse, so let's judge. I think we have a very important operation in front of us that we were forced to do yesterday by Mr Dinkic, a very important operation between "New Agrobank" and "Postal Savings". Both Jovan and Milan Krkobibic played a significant role in this regard. If we can finish this, we will remove from the door the people of great tribulation and great tribulations, which we have not brought to us, nor any of these people, but those who ruled before us. In any case, I thank you for the opportunity to tell you about something that I haven't had the opportunity to say before, and you just think about how difficult it is to say some of the things I said, because you know the political and social situation in Serbia well, you know the power schedule in Serbia, but then I am telling you clearly enough and precisely how determined the government is to keep corruption and crime at zero tolerance, but also to do something for the citizens of Serbia. We're not here to be in power, to have a purse and a bow, it's all of us together like you have been for many years, we're here for a change. If we can, we'll do something. If we can't, then come and see if you can make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3423	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3424	Since you asked a question about the budget, just a few words let me say. Forget the time when the budget was put together by the Democratic Party. For starters, the first change is that the budget was adopted today, and today is October 25th. Today is not December 15th, today is October 25th. What's the difference? In that our government respects you, Mr Djuric, and all MPs of the Serbian Parliament, including DS MPs. You'll have almost a month to read the budget in detail, because it's really the most important state financial document. We're not going to get into a budget debate before November 20th, I can now announce it. We don't want to adopt the most important state financial document in a hurry. We want to give you enough time to read well, to criticize us well. I'll be ready to accept all your well-intentioned and constructive remarks and suggestions about the budget. It may sound strange to you, but it's true, we're going to split the budget deficit. That's what I promised you, the MPs, and the citizens of Serbia. The new government has brought with this budget and another part of the overall fiscal consolidation plan. The total budget deficit will be 3.3% of GDP in the Republic, as expenditure will only grow 4.4% nominally, i.e. it will be about 5% realistically lower than in this year, while revenues due to the laws that we have already adopted in the National Assembly, as well as after the adoption of the Company Tax Act will be about 5% more realistically. What were we doing? We have made a balance between the necessary savings on non-productive expenditures and incentives for the development of agriculture, above all, and then the perspective part of the economy and infrastructure, and we have provided growth on social protection. For the first time, we have a situation to reduce the current costs of buying goods and services, and we increase capital investments, what you learn in textbooks is that the model is how to make the budget. Unlike the rebalancing, which I said in advance wasn't my budget, that it was a book that was already 80% written, I, as finance minister in our government, am taking full responsibility for this budget. I am very pleased and grateful to our ministers that today they unanimously supported the adoption of the budget and that we will all together as a team to implement it. Our talks with Mission IMF take place after Mrs Tabakovic and I returned from Tokyo daily. Yesterday she called me, while I was here in the Parliament on a break, Mrs. Murgasov, who runs the IMF Mission for Serbia and announced her arrival in November of the IMF Mission. It will be the first official because it was a technical mission to come to Belgrade after breaking the deal with the previous government. I understand that there are doubts both of you MPs of the opposition and the IMF about how we put together the budget, but we wouldn't have come to Belgrade, believe me, if we hadn't made a good budget. They told me something that I hadn't experienced in my career, that maybe we've overly reduced the budget deficit and that it might be better if it were instead of 3.6% at a consolidated level of about 4%. We're talking about 0.4% chance of even raising the deficit. What does that mean? That means that the budget deficit is going to be, in any case, not maybe this 100 billion dinars as much as we first thought we could reduce, but it's going to be 90 billion dinars this year. As for guarantees, forget the previous government practice of putting everything and everything into guarantees, including guarantees for the liquidity of "Srbigas", which you were talking about. So there will be no guarantees in the 2013 budget for the liquidity of any public enterprise. What does that mean? I'll explain it to you. Otherwise, the amount of guarantees to be provided for this year's budget is five times lower than the amount of guarantees provided for in the budget for this year. Why? Because we don't want to give guarantees for everything and everything, as far as anyone's concerned, but only what's in the country's priorities. What are national priorities? Infrastructure, including transport infrastructure and energy. So we will give guarantees to China's Exim Bank for continuing construction and Kostolac, but also for three highways in Serbia. It's one in Vojvodina from Novi Sad through a tunnel through the Fruska Mountain, across the Ruma, across the Pawc to Loznica. The highway from Belgrade to Ljig means Corridor 11 and so on. Moravia corridor, or highway from Pojat to Preljina. There are also guarantees or borrowings from the European Investment Bank, the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for other important directions. As well as a loan from the Russian Federation and that double billion dollars for budget support and $800m for the Railways, unlike the previous period, this loan will become very fast active, but by the end of this year it is time for the first project to finally start to be realised. So, as far as the guarantee for public enterprises is concerned. Three public companies are currently operating unsustainable and must change their existence. We have an absolute consensus in the government to do it. The first is the JAT, which requested a 35m-euro guarantee in his memo for the liquid liquidity that we refused, because we do not want to finance the old JAT. We want to build a new JAT that would be devoid of debts. To use the ultimate old agreement with Airbus and buy 12 new planes to rebuild the fleet, but then to work profitablely. So there's no guarantee for liquid liquidity for JAT, but that's why he has our plan to make a modern, new JAT. Also, Mr. Bajatovic and Minister Mihajlovic and I absolutely agree that it is impossible and bad to work in the way the former Ministry of Finance forced "Srbijas" to work, which is "keep water while the masters leave", which is one of the principles. Push under the carpet problems and debts. So the principle of work was next. Hold the unreal price of the gas, subsidize it with the ones you need and the ones you don't need. So, subsidize the poor you need, but those you don't need are the ones who can pay the economic price, and the government will give you guarantees for taking liquidity loans from business banks to finance current liquidity. Such loans have been approved in this assembly in the last four years, of course, at the request of the then finance ministry about 800m euros. Who's gonna pay those loans back? It's a question that you ask correctly, but we don't want to make any more of that kind of depth, but by the new year it's going to be used, you've mentioned these ratifications for this year, when we've been doing rebalancing, we've told people in "Serbiagas" and we've agreed with the Energy Minister by the end of the year, we're just going back to the old one, and then we're changing that wrong policy because the new year is a new beginning. A new beginning behind JAT, Srbigas, but also for Galenika. The former finance ministry managed to accumulate the huge debts that were making so-called debts. Quasi fiscal deficit. So the quasi fiscal deficit was never even presented to you people's MPs here in the Assembly, it was just a matter of budget deficits. What's a quasi fiscal deficit? These are late, i.e. the debts of public authorities to the private sector or to some other suppliers. About 25 billion dinars are owed to the pharmaceutical industry. It owes about seven billion dinars to the tolls. About two billion dinars are owed to the judicial authorities. These are all debts that are pushed under the carpet, and we don't want to push anything under the carpet, we want everything to be in the light of these reflectors in this assembly and of course the citizens see it and we're going to solve it. How are we gonna handle this? Not by paying back these debts now and paying those debts that the predecessors made but also by making a system that will ban them, prevent the accumulation of those debts in the future. How do we build that system? By listening for a year, two days of justifiable demands by the businessmen to finally make the state become a liquidity generator of the economy, not a liquidity generator, like today. We will propose to you Members of Parliament together with the 2013 budget a law on the regularity of payments where the maximum payment period will be 60 days between the private sector and only 45 days for payments of the state to others. We want to show that discipline has to start financially from the state. The state will have shorter payment deadlines than the private sector. For all, it will be 60 days, and for the state alone for 45 days, the maximum payment period from the moment the contract is taken over. You will see one big newspaper in the 2013 budget, these are members who follow budget implementation in a way to prevent the creation of late in both the republic, the province, and the local. So our vault will monitor how the budget is implemented for both goods and services and the priority must be given to reconciliation of municipal costs. It's a shame the state owes for electricity. I admit it's a shame on behalf of someone who runs the Treasury Ministry even though I'm not responsible for the past six years. It's a shame not to pay for electricity from the state. How do we expect citizens to pay for electricity if the state doesn't pay for it? We now prohibit ministers and ministries, but also local self-government and the province from paying any other obligations with goods and services unless they have previously settled all the material costs, so as not to make them late. Also, this bill will provide fines for both ministers and directors of public enterprises, for mayors, for the province government if a limited payment period is passed. So our idea is, to settle previous debts and introduce order and discipline for new things. The Minister of Health has been working on this with us for the first three months to solve the problem of the pharmaceutical industry. The problem is that hospitals today are doing a job that shouldn't be the job of the hospital, which is to buy drugs and other materials, instead of introducing central public procurement into the Health Fund. We expect and have the full support of the Ministry of Health and the World Bank to save 20% of the funds through the centralisation of public procurement in the health care sector, i.e. by banning hospitals from obtaining drugs in the future. So the idea is to pay back the previous debts, but to prevent the creation of new ones. In all of this, as you can see, I'm going to intertwine the ministers' intelligence from different political parties. This can only work with a full consensus. We've got him. I'm sure we'll make it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3425	Thank you. I would just ask the ministers to give a little shorter answers to allow the MPs to ask a question. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3426	Thank you for that intervention. I think this is the right place to say something else. The Liberal Democratic Party has prepared a proposal to amend the Parliament's Rules of Procedure to avoid these situations right now. So, to introduce a restriction for ministers when they answer here. What Mr Dinkic did was a special scandal, he spoke 14-15 minutes, four and a half times as long as I did. In the end, it looks like we're going to have to deal with the Rules of Procedure because some basic rules of fair play are still being learned, I mean, generally in life. Then you do not take four or five times as long as someone who has asked you a question, and these are political parties that have about the same number of MPs. It took almost 25 minutes to answer, you and Mr. Vukic, and I spoke three minutes before that. A thousand times before, we asked you not to make your wars with the DS, and your divorce lawsuits via the LDP by repeating those arguments and criticisms that we made in 2008 and 2009. You obviously think that through this public congestion you can achieve some effects, and I think it's long-term, unsustainable, and some of the best examples of that you can see in the behavior and fate of the party that you are criticizing here on every visit, but these are your things. Mr. Wolfie, at one point I was even afraid to talk to me, and I realized in the end that you were talking to people through me who you claim to be more powerful than you and I are not going to get into it. You and I know that you have quite enough ways, space and possibilities, to give them answers, to give them answers, to influence and how the media will look in Serbia, so I ask you not to use those moments when MPs say it in this House and I don't do it on behalf of all, even LDP MPs, and I won't ask any further questions, because the Rules of Procedure don't give you the opportunity to answer either, and I think that some basic rules of fair play man must respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3427	Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3428	First of all, just to say, I apologize to you, this was today my only answer that lasted more than three minutes, of the 11 answers I gave. You're right, and I like to respect fair play, in the media that I don't get involved, because I'm guilty of a lot of things from before, so I know what I shouldn't do. As far as the answer is concerned, I want to tell you that I said it once and I repeat it, those who think they're scared and shivering in Serbia, and they'll never get an answer, and thank you for the opportunity to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3429	The word has a national emissary, Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I would like to ask the question of the Minister of Health today, we are aware that there are a lot of problems in health, that the needs and wishes are great, opportunities and money. The fact is also that health care has standards that determine how busy a doctor can be in relation to the number of inhabitants. Unfortunately, it's causing us a lot of problems. There are inhabited places in the Kovin municipality that have no doctors at all, and let the villages have two or three times a week doctors, and in some large villages there are only one doctor and people have to come in order at four or five o'clock in the morning. Most of the time, it's about people who are older, parents with small children, poor people, and they have to pay for a trip, a taxi, to get to a doctor, or to use a cheaper bus and spend all day with a doctor. My question is whether there is a legal possibility that local self-government from its budget is funding missing doctors, since the Health House can't do it from its own resources. After the adoption of the law on the financing of local self-government, the Kovin Municipality has about 150m dinars of higher income in its budget. I felt that money should be deployed fairly and justly and directed towards solving the citizens' direct problems. Since a large number of citizens spoke to me about not having enough doctors, I suggested that a doctor’s salary be financed in the local 2012 budget, which would be mobile and at least sort of solved the problem of missing doctors. Unfortunately, that's where my 10-month struggle between local administration and management of the Covin House of Health begins, regardless of the money paid by a doctor. I ask you to help us find a solution with your answer, because the money remains in the local budget, the citizens continue to travel to the doctor and spend their money.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3431	The word has a health minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3432	Again, one question that we would say, knocking on the door that has already been opened, so we think very much alike, we in the government, especially in the Ministry of Health, and you who are obviously in responsible parliamentary office dealing with questions from this domain. We think that the founder, and in this case is the founder of the Kovin House of Health, has both opportunities and within existing legal acts and financial means to finance certain health activities that are not even formally and formally in the network of institutions, according to existing staff policies, or according to an existing network of institutions. However, this will be facilitated by the amendments and additions of the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act that we are making, and given that certain funds will increase to local communities on health issues, and then each local environment will have the opportunity to define these funds on its own, and whether it will focus on equipment, on space or on personnel, are three elements and is a very colorful picture in Serbia where what is priority is. Therefore, the founders of health institutions will have, and in accordance with the opportunities provided for by the amendments and additions of these two basic laws, the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act, they will have the opportunity to pay as many staff as they estimate that the name is needed. When it comes to secondary and therapeutic health care, hospitals, we've always had some problems, that sometimes it's said that one health care institution has more beds, another less, more health workers, another less, and we'll settle that by introducing a reward system, where the number of diagnostic services will be paid. This is not an answer to your question, this is an announcement, obviously the need for MPs to always have the opportunity to enter the Ministry of Health with ideas, and physically to come to us as often as possible and to solve specific issues together.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3433	Thank you on behalf of my fellow citizens for your response. I think this is the right way to solve citizens' problems in co-operation and with the republican and local authorities, and in particular there is a great role for our MPs to point out problems and especially for places, to solve problems in the inner areas, because I think that people in these smaller places should have about the same conditions for life as those in the capital and the big cities. I'm not saying this out of loyalty to the political option I belong to, but I'm saying from sincere conviction as a citizen, as someone who wants to stay with his family, to live politely in a small place where he was born and where he grew up. Thanks for your help.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3434	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3435	Dear People's MPs, respected members of the government, my question concerns the latest information on talks with Pristina and aims to create a platform for these talks. I thought I'd ask the Prime Minister, but since he's not here, I'd ask one of the government members to answer me, so far Mr. Vukic has worked most on it, so I guess he'll answer. Yesterday, the public was informed that it had launched a platform for negotiations, to continue dialogue with Pristina. Mr. Vukic told curious reporters it was a state secret. It's quite fine when a platform is being created for negotiations, that government members don't have to bring it up immediately, or even the platform itself. It's not a surprise. What is the focus of my question, why did this platform start to be created, is not some framework document that we all expected, and hence the journalist's curiosity about whether you would present this platform to the public, because they mixed up the framework document, some basic document that was expected, given the announcements from the very beginning of August and beyond, which would be adopted in some procedure and where all parties would participate, and in the best case, in parliament. This is how these jobs are done and how it assumes that the creation of a negotiation platform is a certain easier job for the government, since it has a framework that makes it safe and legitimate. It didn't happen even though it was two months ago, and it could have been done in that time. We have in mind the fact that the state does not have that kind of medium-power document or middle-level document except Resolution 1244 and previous resolutions, but five years have passed. In the last term, parliament only discussed Kosovo twice. He brought in a resolution that lasted a month and was changed by Katherine Ashton, and since then, talks have started on the basis of a resolution written by Catherine Ashton. So a lot of things happened, some conclusions were made. By them now you want to stand up to them and carry them out. At the very least, there are many reasons for the congregation to discuss this. There is a theme, therefore, and a strategy about KIM, and the question is who will continue to mediate these negotiations. They cannot be transferred by the EU, as it is an actor in creating an independent Kosovo. Then various other issues, and the latest, say, the EU document mentions the need for respect for Kosovo's territorial integrity, which must be determined by the state since it is the country's document we are counting on in the integration process. So my question is briefly, why has the government missed the Assembly in these matters so far? The second question is whether the government will launch a mechanism that will reach a broader document through the Assembly that will be able to establish the negotiating platform itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3436	Minister Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3437	Dear Mr Samardzic, we have had several sessions of the National Security Council and the topic has always been KIM and, of course, because of the nature of things, you can't, this isn't the place where we can talk about all the problems and everything we face to talk about, but I won't hide what is, of course, possible and logical to talk about in this place. First of all, thank you for saying this, because the act is being prepared, and when the act is being prepared, it is meant to be a state secret, so that there are no different abuses about the content of the act. I am sorry that some of the other politicians in this country did not understand, or were not responsible enough for key state and national issues and problems. I want first of all to guarantee one thing to you, which is that the second we have a clear platform and before it becomes public you and your political party, all political parties from parliament, to gain insight into that material, and it is absolutely certain that we will go to debate in parliament and on the state of KIM and what is necessary for the state to take over. So, no one wants to, although it's a very difficult question, even though it's for us, I would say something that no one can get some kind of political point, but just to lose, it's our national obligation, it's our human obligation to discuss and discuss it. After all, if you want both the MPs and the business and the government to come out with certain materials in front of the National Assembly, I am convinced that we will discuss KIM more than twice during this term. So you'll be able to get to know each other before you finally get out in front of the public to give your judgment on it, and I'm sure you'll have a constructive part of it later, because I have to say that all the opposition parties, as well as all the ruling parties at the time you were in power, around KIM, have been invited to talk and have been called to an agreement. So I am convinced that this time no one, it changed from 2008 to 2012 when no one was invited to anything anymore, and no one talked about anything, at least about KIM. I am convinced that this tradition that has been cut short will continue, and even if it does not agree on much, I am sure that we will always be ready to listen to your arguments, to hear what you think, as I am sure that you too will appreciate the difficulties the state is facing unwittingly and not with your own will. I'm sure that's going to change in a short time, and I'd apologize to all of you for the fact that we couldn't have done it sooner, that's because we always had, or for the good part, faced the barren statements and the barren papers in which, you remember the four-point plan, I don't know how many, and they were all general phrases. This time, since I've seen the paper, I want to tell you that we're going to have a certain problem accepting that kind of platform all together, but for the first time we're going to go out with something that's positive, not just negative and not just red lines. When I say positive, I mean something that we're going to have to propose. That's the frame I can't get out of any further in what I could tell you was happening. I'm sorry for the length of the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3438	Thank you. Mr. Samardzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3439	Mr. Wolf, I know you couldn't even give a different answer, because it's simply government policy. She's late for this thing, but it's not just a delay, it's something that can have bad consequences. In fact, it seems to me that the government is in a hurry somewhere, and that's why it doesn't go to some normal time. That is, therefore, the new government. First of all, one party in it is a new party, which had a different platform for its election on Kosovo, compared to the then ruling structure and the two parties that entered the government. At the very least, it was natural to expect that there would be some procedural changes in relation to what has been done so far. That's quite clear to me. What is the problem is this haste with the continuation of these negotiations stemming from each other's strategy, which is a European strategy. They force you to take these quick steps, and you can't do everything right, it's quite clear to me, but you have no other choice, in my opinion, until you change your tactics somewhere, to set yourself differently towards that type of ultimatum that the EU is pushing you to. It certainly is not about Serbia entering the EU, because it will no longer receive anyone, although it may increase the number of members, but in a way of internal enlargement, rather, it cares about ending the Kosovo issue. Don't let the government act the same as the previous government, that it's always in a hurry under that dictatorship. Simply, the timing to be determined should be more permanent for this government, unless it is blindly directed to this path of European integration, where it will eventually have to accept Kosovo. When it comes to our role, of course it must be constructive, whoever it is, Serbia, especially the parties. I just have one hunch, one fear that the time that you're predicting you're going to address some kind of consultation and conversation, that it's going to be too late, this is a very short time. It is evident to anyone who follows the pressure of the West on Serbia, that it is about a month, as they expect, some definitive steps, or as this collectively says difficult decisions, which our government must come to. I do not see, therefore, ways to follow this pace that imposes on another who has his own interests and who is not primarily interested in Serbia entering the EU, but who accepts so-called. normalising relations with Kosovo, using the euphemism, which actually means recognising Kosovo, is what this is about. Now, the public of work is very important, and that's why I started the whole story. Namely, this public means that the least Assembly participates in this and is familiar with the elements of things, so my next question is this: will you meet us, I am also looking for a platform for dialogue with Pristina's previous government. We have to have her as MPs, we couldn't get her for the whole last term, we also looked for her on the Kosovo Committee... (President: Time, Mr. Samardzic. ) Of course, and it is very important to compare that platform with the results and later your platform with that platform and the results that you will have. So, on behalf of the public, I'm asking you, can you give us the platform that the government adopted three years ago, based on which dialogue was conducted with Pristina?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3440	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3441	So I'm going to try to answer it directly in the last asked question, then I'm going to look back at what you were saying in this opening part. I don't know what kind of platform it was, but everything the previous government has achieved that you'll be able to get, you'll be able to see everything in the papers. A good part of it you can find today, but we will deliver to you everything that is missing, so that at any moment you can assess what has been achieved and what is what our international legal obligation is, has been willing, has been reluctant. As for whether we're in a hurry or it's too late, however you turn, I'm willing to accept, along with everyone in this room, and responsibility and guilt for not having a good enough solution. Of course, I'm not going to tell you now those floscules that you're already used to and which are meant to be, that we won't recognise independent Kosovo and everything else. These are things that are known and understood and in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But whatever is done, however it is done, will not be favourable, nor good, nor clear enough to bring prosperity above all for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and even for our country. In that sense, whatever we do, whatever we do, we make a mistake. If we don't act and do nothing, we'll be wrong, too. And now that question, the question of choice, and when you talk about European integration, whether someone orders us or whether we receive dictatorships, we don't receive dictatorships, but we want Serbia to get a date. Whether and when this second and third phase will follow, it is a second question and we can discuss it, but we believe that for Serbia for economic and political reasons it is important to get a date for starting negotiations. In many European countries, from Slovakia to Bulgaria to many others, the biggest investment in the country has proved to be coming from the moment of the date, and we are left with these most difficult conditions for the third stage. In doing so, for no second will I underestimate those conditions that come in the first stage, and first of all, to be quite open, it is the implementation of IBM, which is very difficult for our country. It represents today our international legal obligation. To tell Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija that that's why they're looking forward to it, I can't and can't, but to hide something or to do something behind our backs, we can't think of it either. I think we should have a fair and fair relationship with people, think about our territory, think about our country, but think about our citizens, their lives and their economic future. Once again, all the acts agreed by the previous government, everything that we do and what happens in the form of sublegal legal acts adopted at government meetings or in negotiations, talks with Pristina institutions, so you will be able to always and at any moment to win, to evaluate in a negative or less positive way. What we are asking you to do, and it is up to you whether or not you will fulfill it, is that we try to be realistic and that, apart from what you have the right to do, which is to get political points and that no one blames you, we show that kind of responsibility to understand what the real situation in Kosovo and Metohija is and to get as much as possible for our country and our people, and to lose the least that we have to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3442	Thank you. Mr. Samardzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3443	We all know that the difficult problem is Kosovo and Metohija, that is not to be said. Every government has a big problem with that. At the end of the line, you came after a government that finished 95% of the job of recognising Kosovo and Metohija. That is, therefore, an additional difficult situation for your government. She had, simply, a step-by-step recognition tactics and reached 95%. You can have a big problem, since you have 5% of the foreign players left, that with those 5% actually, so to speak, you justify and wash those 95% that they did and they will support you most in achieving these 5%. That's for sure. Keep something else in mind, if you don't contribute this 5% of what you're expected to do, that 95% won't do anything. That, simply, consider some of your government's calculations purely accounted for. Therefore, it simply as some advice in the end. Thank you for the papers. I have to say I have all the documents, except for the platform, and the platform has no one, and it's very important that we get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3444	Thank you. The word is by MP Zoran Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3445	Thank you. The chairman, the Honorable Vice-President, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, fellow MPs and fellow Members, I have come to understand the question in the direction of not the Minister of Health, but the Minister of Energy, but I will address the first Vice-President reading what it says in the report of the Health Ministry's Health Inspectorate, or Health Inspectorate from Nis today. It says – KC Nis is ordered, Gynaecological and obstetric clinic, to provide hygienic conditions in all working rooms regarding heating, to provide comfort temperature and protection of newborn health, midwife, patient and staff, in accordance with the Regulation on the conditions of room under sanitary supervision. Term of execution - immediately. At the time of the clinic inspection, there were 53 newborn babies and 120 patients. Why is this question not addressed to the Minister of Health, but to you as Deputy Prime Minister, or to the entire government? First of all, we built a boiler room as a clinical center with Jugorosgas. The boiler room, which was as much a problem as in Belgrade, the space polluter, is finished. It's broken down and it's made new. Where's the problem? It's all funded by the Ministry of Health. There's been a problem in 39 square meters. A measuring-regulatory station was built on that space. The seven ministries gave their opinion positively, as well as the Property Directorate, and that was supposed to go, as I understand it, today at the government's session to get the conditions for "Yugorosgas" to let us warm up. I don't know when there's gonna be a new government session. My request is that this point be placed as soon as possible, i.e. at the first next session of the government, because, according to announcements, the temperature that will be for the next few days will be five - six degrees. So the whole Nis clinical center is gonna run out of heat. We no longer have the conditions to return to the old mechanism, to return to coal. There's a way to move on to a lot of oil within two days that's five times more expensive than the gas we'd use. I end up with maybe a year ago "Yugorosgas" through our measuring control station missing gas to the sports hall, where it happened primarily in the handball, so there are conditions. So, the application is to make it possible by power of authority to get as much gas as tomorrow and at the first session, which I don't know when it will be, to adopt that plan for those 39 square meters, to get conditions for that land to be alienated or to move to 9 years in the possession of Jugorosgas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3446	The word is made by Minister Djukic-Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3447	Despite the fact that the question is not addressed to me and that you will receive a sure answer from your colleague, Zorana, I would have to remind you that it is the obligation of the director of a health care institution to act immediately on the orders of inspectors, because it is about newborn babies that have not developed a thermogulatory centre. Warming the room can be done in other ways. I fully respect your appeals to address the systemic problem as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3448	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3449	I'd only add one sentence. I'm no expert on that, but we'll discuss this problem before the government's session. If necessary, I think we'll have a government session on Monday. If it's all the way you said it, then we'll settle it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3450	Thank you. Mr. Radovanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3451	I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister. The terms are secure. The children are already taken care of through the air conditioning system, it's already over. Just so you understand, an independent application in terms of the government's decision, because they announced over a week of temperatures that will be low. There's no way, except to break the law and buy something out of the procedure, out of the tender, etc. So, a request to Mr. Coldin or who's in contact with him, to just allow it until the first session of the government, because it's already been done once. I thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3452	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3453	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Republic Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, while we are discussing some issues here, I would like to inform you that EU interior ministers are discussing the visa verification mechanism with Serbia, Macedonia and my question is just directed to the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Vice-President of the Republic of Serbia, what are we doing to stop something that would be very bad for the citizens of Serbia? I'm going to mention that this is one liquid DS over the last four years. I'm not saying it's just the merit of the DS, but also the merit of our former coalition partners who are now ashamed of us, I'm going to say that they were involved. I thank them for that. I ask you what this republican government is doing to ensure that this does not happen, given that over the past three years, more than nine million entry into the Schengen countries has been from Serbia. The second question, Minister of the Military, as professor of the Faculty of Medicine in Nis and as chairman of the Health and Family Committee, I ask if there is a possibility that military hospitals, which are now standing empty, which are well equipped, which have a good fit, but unfortunately do not have patients. Serbia's army is now professional, significantly smaller than it was in some years of the former Yugoslavia. My question is that in Nis, the Military Hospital becomes City. The same problem has other environments, from Kragujevac and some other cities. We're a poor country, and we don't need to waste money in overcrowded hospitals and clinic centers, but we need to secure an empty space. These doctors in military hospitals receive salaries, and unfortunately they treat a few pensioners during the day, while the Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad and Kragujevac Clinical Centre are buried with a large number of patients. It's one of my ideas and the question of building a city hospital in Nis from a military hospital. The third question is for ministerial health, which I personally welcome in this government, as the chairman of the Committee on Health and Family, the Secretary-General. But how does it happen, not in your term, but in the mandate of some of our former coalition partners, that the Clinical Centre in Nis, that the children of Southeast Serbia remain worthy but children from Vojvodina, but children from Belgrade? That cochlear implants returning hearing to deaf children are given ten hearing applicators in Novi Sad, giving Belgrade clinics, Clinical Centre and Stars ten each, and Nisu only four. At Serbia's level are four reference centres, Novi Sad, Belgrade and Nis, and Nisu had only four cochlear implants. I ask you, are children in Nis and Southeast Serbia less valuable than children in the rest of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3454	Thank you. Do any of the members of the government want a word? The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3455	I'll start by answering the third question. I'm not familiar with the distribution of the apparatus you're talking about, but it's quite clear that our policy will be that with the hearing of newborn children we must have equal distribution, the same criteria for all of Serbia, and I pledge to take care of it in the next period. Really, I'm not competent and I don't have the information you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3456	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3457	First of all, the asylum issue. I am sorry that anyone in Serbia is trying to politically abuse it, and especially that someone in the DS is trying to do it. I'll tell you the reason is very simple. So, this year, there's a dramatically smaller number of asylum seekers than the last one. Last year was less than last year. If you're already talking about who's most responsible for the problem we have with asylum seekers, if you can even talk about the state's responsibility. We've taken all the legal measures. There are things you can't do. This country will never carry out racial or any other kind of discrimination. Now some additional measures have been taken in accordance with the protocols we have agreed with certain Western European countries. I want to let you know that things are serious, but today they're standing something better than they were the other day. If I'm not mistaken, it's close to a deal with Germany. Some other countries, as you've seen in France, are quite retarded, we're left with the problem of Sweden. The Belgian interior minister, who was recently here, was much more pleased because they had only 396 asylum seekers. Much less than last year. So, please, if the intention was to tell the citizens of Serbia that this government is to blame for the possible abolition of the visa-free regime, it's completely wrong and it's a completely incorrect message. I hope that never happens, but it certainly isn't, can't and won't be the fault of this government. So we'll do everything we can. We have objective economic problems, but also some other problems that are pointless to accuse of any political party. Well, I'm not going to charge you with the fact that we had twice as many asylum seekers two years ago as we have today. You don't have to whisper because you don't understand it, like you don't understand other things. Since that whisper, there's never been any vaj. I want to tell you Mr. Milisavljevic that I am grateful to you for this idea of a military hospital and if things are as you said, I would like our expert people from the military medical sector to talk to Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, to see that we allow civilians as much interference as possible and as possible, I would say greater use of the capabilities of the Serbian Army, as was done at the Military Academy in Belgrade, as was done in numerous medical centres. I think military medical personnel are the pride of this country, so I'm sure we can help. I'm not saying it has to be all the way you imagined it, but I'm sure we can come up with some common result that will benefit the citizens of Nis or other parts of Serbia and all the other citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3458	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3459	I'm pleased with Mrs. Secretary's response. As for Mr. Vukic, I would only remind you of the number of asylum seekers, that the interior minister and former government were Mr. Dacic. Don't give us more asylum in that government. What I'm saying is that when DS and our coalition partners led this country, there was no question in spite of that greater number of asylum seekers than it is now. There was no question about the introduction of visas, and I am concerned that perhaps this composition of the Republic government may not have caused Europe to come this harshly towards the new Republic government, according to Serbian citizens. I don't think asylum people play the main role here, but that the main role of a policy that's moving a little bit towards Russia, a little towards Washington, a little bit towards Brussels. My policy as a citizen of Serbia is directed towards Brussels. It's our destination to go to, to respect other centres of political decision-making. Certainly, the aim of the DSD is to introduce Serbia into the EU and there is no dilemma there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3460	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3461	To make a joke, I hope after all these hours of work the MPs won't get angry. I knew that's what it looked like when Bozidar Djelic whispered. I want to tell you a few things. At the time, at the time of the DS government, two serious warnings came about the number of asylum seekers and it was said that next time the reaction would be different. They don't care about Serbian elections, they don't care about our divisions, they don't care about which group you belong or which political party you belong to. So it seems to me that you live a little in the past, that you still think DS is the only party or party that is acceptable to Europe, and others are not. I don't want to tell you about it. Ask your party colleagues who are a little better at it. I want to tell you that we are doing everything we can to keep the country on the European path without endangering national state interests. There is something more important to us than Brussels, and there are both Belgrade and Nis and Kragujevac and Subotica and all the cities in this country, especially the people who live in these cities, and only when they say what kind of policy they want us to lead, are we running such a policy. It is not a questionable European definition of this government, but rather a question of which topic you will go against us. It seems to me that the topics you've chosen are not accurate enough and that they don't bring you anything, especially what the conclusions you've come to are not true. I think that much better than I do, and as for asylum seekers and what happened in both the previous government and this government, because I'm dealing with some other problems, I'm going to tell you that in Europe, and you've seen what they said in the report about fighting corruption and crime, they expect us to make great progress, they expect great progress in judicial reform, in many areas big progress is expected. I'll remind you that in the most part, in all these areas, you were responsible. If the report and in these key parts in March of the month and the EU are not different and more favourable and better, then I ask you to criticise us with full rights, then ask for our shift, look for our resignations and everything else. Until then, I'm asking you not to go out with the conclusions of whether or not someone in Europe likes us because you're still living in 1998 or I don't know what year, so you think things haven't changed in the meantime. We look to the future, we think about the future, and we always try to choose what is best and closest to the interests of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3462	Thank you. The word is from Deputy Prime Minister Susan Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3463	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear People's MP, the issue of visas certainly doesn't grab politics. I'm going to give you some information to see why this question is now being raised. The number of asylum seekers in Western European countries rose in September. By September, the number was constantly falling. In September, the number of asylum seekers rose most precisely in Germany. According to Frontex 1395, citizens of Serbia sought asylum in Germany. Why Germany? In July, the Constitutional Court of Germany of Capsuli made a decision granting assistance to all asylum seekers in the amount of social assistance in Germany. That's about 800 euros a month. Thus, Germany became a desirable destination for people who thought that by receiving asylum, they would be able to solve their existential problems for some time. What happened today in Brussels at a meeting of the interior ministers of four EU member states is Germany's decision to declare Serbia a safe third country, meaning Serbia as a non-real country, but false asylum seekers and others, to shorten the response procedure. Earlier in the past several months, the response of the German and other asylum seekers took place, and during that time this assistance was collected, that money our citizens were looking for, and that in this way, all with cooperation with Frontex and with our MUP and the Monitoring Service, this problem will be resolved in the long term. As Mr. Vukic said, Sweden's problem remains, but here I had talks with the Swedish Minister of Justice in charge of migration. Sweden is particularly sensitive to minority issues, i.e. asylum seekers coming from minority groups, and we will also have detailed discussions on how to address this problem in the long term. So the problem of increased numbers of asylum seekers from Serbia is certainly not due to a change in government in Serbia, but rather to an increase in all these social spendings in Germany itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3464	Thank you. Mr. Milisavic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3465	Mrs Grubjesic, I think you just admitted that there is a big problem, and you did not offer a solution to that problem. They repeat that these very clear messages from Brussels and other EU power centres have come from the formation of this government, where Serbia, the Serbian people and the Serbian republican government are clearly being warned. The vague messages our president sends that we should not rush into the EU, that we need a little bit with Russia, the messages of insulting the German people and connecting with Nazi Germany, and the carrying of a referendum to apologize, I think it would offend the German people who are a great people. I'll tell you, since Mr. Vukic mentioned me going back to history, I'll go back to history that Mr. Gete spoke Serbian, that the Green brothers spoke Serbian, that Friedrich Barbarosa, who was in Nis, also taught Serbian. These are people who respect other civilizations, and I don't think we should be doing anything wrong with the great peoples. This is one warning. Asylums aren't the main problem. The problem is the rhetoric of the new government and officials of the Republic government towards large countries and major diplomacys in Europe and America. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3466	Thank you. The word is made by MP Mujo Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable members of the government, first of all, I would like to thank my colleagues from the SNS Parliament Club who have made it possible for me to use this institution of parliamentary issues first as a member of the Bosniak People's Party today, because otherwise I would not be able to, given that the time is already at hand. I want to look back, namely, we are witnessing that as the majority of the assembly we have already begun to have several difficulties in determining the agenda and that SNS President, Mr Aleksandar Vucic, I think we have rightly assumed that responsibility and apologized to the citizens of Serbia, because in times of this kind of difficult and difficult economic crisis, everyone here in the Serbian Parliament is costing our citizens dearly. What I'm trying to say about this is that the government was once not coordinated with the leadership of the Assembly and that this time we had to interrupt the Second Session of the Regular Session, to begin the Third Session, where the Act on the Taking of Property and Obligations of Certain Banks was on the agenda to preserve the stability of the financial system. What's this about? A debate in detail and voting is scheduled for tomorrow. I would like to remind everyone that tomorrow is the biggest Islamic holiday of Kurban Bajram and that several MPs, including myself, will not be able to attend the session. I appeal to take care of these dates, as well as Catholic Christmas, Orthodox Christmas, etc. Speaking of Agrobank, I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity, given that citizens, that's a general opinion, most support the work of the first Deputy Prime Minister... Before that, speaking of Kurban Bajram, I would like to congratulate all members of Islam, Bosniaks and all others who celebrate Bajram tomorrow, the traditional congratulatory "Bairam Sheriff Mubarek Olsun". I'm going to take the opportunity to ask the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, because that's what citizens are interested in, not only here in Belgrade, but also in the interior, as far as the investigation has taken place in the case of Agrobanke, since we see this investigation leading in different directions? (President: Time. Please let me finish. Will citizens expect this investigation to go to an end, since some sound names and names may appear that might be related to some SNS coalition partners?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3468	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3469	Some people here thought, when they were having an affair, there were some coalition partners. It was settled at the beginning, and then they said it shouldn't go any further. Agrobank is a serious problem and we have no problems with coalition partners on this issue. No one will be protected from the SNS or any other political party. I want to tell you that for a reason, the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been changed. That's what Mr. Dinkic was talking about yesterday. There's a big reason. We would have terrible problems if we had not approved a large, serious and responsible banking and financial operation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Our citizens would be in big trouble. I'm afraid to tell you some examples of how certain placements have been going through both here and through some other banks. Some would laugh in the hall, and I'm afraid it's more for crying than for laughing. As well as the question how is it possible for someone to have a problem with about 150m euros of missing funds, and then lends loans to a political party of 3.2m euros without any security, with personal bonds, or to tell you that there are no personal notes anywhere, that they have collated orally wealth, directly contrary to our laws. Everything here was possible because no one thought that one day the government would change, but it was politics – take as much as you can and move while you can, until no one sees you. Government policy, the entire government will be zero tolerance to corruption and crime. If we can handle it and how much pressure there will be, the pressure will certainly be. You can see these pressures every day on various stupid examples. No one will tell you, of course, that it bothers him. They'll always find something else to bother them. They're gonna find someone a roaster. Imagine a terrible sin that you had a roaster. I wish I had a roaster, so I could boast to someone here that I'm too old to do it, like some people weren't anything but take money away from the citizens of Serbia, but they always knew how to teach everyone else, and the worst of it was that they gave them moral sermons. The Agrobank is not finished, but some of the operational actions have not yet started, and there is enough information needed to conduct pre-examinations and concerns some other banks discussed here yesterday by the finance minister. I think that this will make it clear to the citizens of Serbia that Serbia has a future, that no one is paid in Serbia and will never be paid to steal. It's not just a matter of criminal acts of taking, giving bribes, but also criminal acts, if you want, direct theft, only sophisticated, in a very serious way, so it's never worth it, and I expect it, because, excuse me, due to another digration, there aren't people in so many of Germany that we normally respect very much in the government, and I think we have the best possible relations in the government with that country that you mentioned, and much better than there are many opposition parties, but let's not get into it and not compete, I wish we all had the best possible relations with Germany, are not Germans better people, nor are we better people than them. There are just as many honest ones as there are others. But they have a better system than we do. There are more significant and better measures for both general and special prevention. They have mechanisms and systems, and that's what we're missing, and that's what we need to do in the next period. It's not a question of sound or unsounding names, it's a question of creating mechanisms and systems. That's what we're working on. And finally, I want to tell you that you're absolutely right about the date, the date selection. I don't know how all of us in the government got lost so we wouldn't consider the possibility of a vote scheduled for another day. I suppose because of the urgency and necessity of conducting this procedure. I want to congratulate you and all the other members of the Islamic religion, Bosniaks and other peoples who are Islamic religions, to congratulate Kurban Bayram and hope that we will be able to correct our mistakes in the future on this matter. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3470	I will take the opportunity to congratulate you on behalf of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3471	Thank you. I have no doubt there's someone in front of the government. I also heard today in the press that the president of the Assembly congratulated Bajram on the citizens, as well as the prime minister. I want to ask another additional question, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, with thanks. In fact, you know that I come from the Sandzak municipalities, that is, the municipality is western Serbia and the citizens rightly wonder there – will your team, a team that fights corruption and crime, be able to deal with some cases within the country, since we do not have "Agrobank", but we have some smaller institutions and business entities and that it is the general opinion that there is crime and how much, even in these municipalities, even in some state institutions? We understand that not all can be understood at once, that is, by the citizens, but they hope that justice will still come to those parts. I will ask you a personal question, and I hope no one will resent me. Do you personally suffer pressures for what you do? Is there a threat or something?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3472	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3473	Mr. Mukovic, as you know, I can't stand the pressure. I'm not a man with pressure on institutions. I don't personally suffer pressure from anyone. I'm not the kind of man who could take the pressure. As all SNS MPs know, I now praise myself when I say a little bit, a little bit more than that a difficult man, so there's none of that. To go back to what's more important. Here you can see, I thought it was going to be part of the question, these are your cuts about 20 companies that are currently being processed. It's a big team of people, a huge team of people. There are people who sleep in single hotels. Four or five of them in the room share one bathroom. They work hard, they struggle to have investigative and investigative actions carried out to the end. I thank them for the tremendous efforts they make. As for the various parts of Serbia – Novi Pazar, Tutina, Sjenica, Prepolje, Nova Varosha, whatever works you want, as well as Subotica, Pirota or any other part, it is our obligation to act with the same arches, with the same force in each part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We'll never be able to make it all. Sorry about that. I'm sure the people in all these places I've mentioned will be at least partially more content and by exercising their rights and by getting more justice than it's ever been before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-25-0.u3474	Thank you. Given that all MPs and independent MPs and representatives of parliamentary groups have used the right to ask one question at a time, and now it is 19.15 hours, this is what I would do today's work. I thank you all for your work, and I remind you that tomorrow we will continue our work at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 107 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Dear People's MPs, it determines a 10-minute break. We are waiting for the report from the Committee responsible for Finance, which is the proposer of the amendment. [[After a break.]] According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of promoter Mladjan Dikic, Minister of Finance and Business, also attended Vlajko Senic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Business. We continue to work on the search in detail on the 1st point of the agenda – the proposal of the Law on Presumption of the Property and Obligation of Certain Banks for the sake of preservation of FINANCES OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Gordana Komić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papug, Đorđe Stojšić, Bojan Kostreš, Karolj Čizik, Olgica Batić, Jovan Palalić, Miroslav Petković, Dejan Mihajlov, Milica Radović, Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic, Teodora Vlahović and Nenad Popović, as well as amendments submitted by the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and control of public funds. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Chizik, pulled the amendment together to Article 10. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendments were submitted jointly by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Cizik. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 1 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Alexander Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Cizik submitted together to the 1st amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 2 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Gordana Komic, the MPs Alexander Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Čizik, together with the MPs Jovan Palalić and Miroslav Petkovic, submitted to the MPs. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
