ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2904	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Please first listen to the state anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonation of the anthem. ) Based on official records of the presence of MPs, I find that 157 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 153 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Katarina Rakic, Bajro Gegic, Borislav Kovacevic, Aleksandar Antic and Ivica Tončev. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and exceptional for Monday, so other than those laid down in Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the urgent need for the National Assembly to consider the draft act in the proposed agenda. Before we move on to the motions for reviewing the acts of urgency, I ask you to allow the National Assembly to confirm the mandate of one of the MPs. So, since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable his participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly be in accordance with Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Karol Cizik, elected from the election list for a better life - Boris Tadic. On the basis of the decision of the Republic Election Commission and the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I hereby establish the confirmation of the mandate of MP Karol Chizik. I congratulate the People's MP on his election and ask him to approach for the sake of taking an oath. The president reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. "I swear to uphold the duty of the civil servant and the civil liberties and the best knowledge and the ability to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice") I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath. We're going back to work. A number of acts have arrived at the National Assembly to be considered by emergency procedure. National MP Radojko Obradovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 14 June 2012. If no one wants to explain it, I'm putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: 17 votes against one, with no abstentions and no 172 votes of a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radojko Obradovic proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law on payment deadlines for beneficiaries of public funds and state and public enterprises, which submitted to the National Assembly on 14 June 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 178 out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Aleksandar Jugovic and Olgica Batic proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on the opening of the Security Service file in the Republic of Serbia, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 29 August 2012. Mr. Jugovic wanted to explain and has the right for three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2905	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, in December 2010, in this House, the SPO proposed that you put on the agenda the draft law opening the file of the Security Service in the Republic of Serbia. The bill was then voted by LDP MPs, G 17 Plus MPs, Social Democratic Party of Serbia, LSV and SPO MPs. Today, I demand again, on the basis of the promise since 2000 and on the basis of the promises we made to the European Commission and the EU that we will open files, from all MPs in this House, to vote in favour of this proposal for a law on opening secret files, because this is the only time that we become a member of the EU. Without the law, all the former communist countries have brought it, we cannot follow the will of the people of Serbia. In an exposé, the prime minister pledged to open secret files. I listed the political parties that voted in favour of the bill in the last term, so in 2010. If individual political parties, which are part of the current ruling majority, do not vote in favour of this bill, and it seems to me that their votes would include this law in the agenda, then they will have to explain their position. There are many reasons to pass this law. Experiences from former communist countries speak best of all. Secret files have been opened in Bulgaria. In Bulgaria, a parliamentary commission to open secret files found that several ministers, the deputy prime minister, the former democratic president of Bulgaria, were several hundred diplomats in their secret police co-operation network. It was found that 11 out of 15 Bulgarian bishops were in their secret police co-operation network. It is impossible that such a situation is not similar in Serbia. Someone said, and that someone was prime minister, that they would open secret files unless they threatened Serbia's security system. Serbia's security system cannot be compromised by opening secret files, on the contrary, because without security, the system has not been compromised in any former communist country where secret files have been opened. In 2004, the SPO together with the DHSS and the support of Vladan Batic submitted to the Serbian Parliament, the Serbian Parliament, a proposal to open secret files and you know what happened? There's been a retaliation. 10 MPs have been kidnapped. I hope that after this proposal we will not experience the same fate, I hope that this is a democratic step that we must take and hope that the conscience of all MPs in this House will require that they vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2906	Time, Mr. Jugovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -40, against – one, with abstention – one, 158 of the 200 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the urgent consideration of this proposal. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society of the National Assembly has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the National Council for Higher Education, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 September 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 197 out of the 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the urgent consideration of this proposal. The government has proposed to put the draft law on confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (AD Railways of Serbia: Rehabilitation of the railways) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 September 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote 198 of the 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the urgent consideration of this proposal. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of the National Assembly's public funds proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to elect the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, which submitted to the National Assembly on 2 October 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 200 out of the 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the urgent consideration of this proposal. A group of 20 MPs from the DSS Group – Vojislav Kostunica proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law prohibiting the exploitation of nickel ore in the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 October 2012. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go. He has the word of Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic, as president of the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2907	Thank you, Mr. President. The public has been very upset in the last two months with all events related to the exploration of nickel in Topola, Wekra Gora, Vrnjačka Banja, Vrnjačka Banja – Trstenik. Of course, the public is very upset with the right, because the research has never been, nor can it be, self-inflicted. To explore something, there is always a consequence of exploiting it. By the way, we have the data as a parliamentary group, that the state-owned firm Geosavod has already explored nickel in the territory that is also investigating this new firm, "Serbia-Nikl", and that there are very precise data on all of this. So the research is done and nickel's on that move. What is also very familiar to the public, and I'm afraid it's not known to all of us, which is that the exploitation of nickels carries with it a lot of dangers, that there is no such pure technology. By the way, in Serbia, this pure technology didn't come in, I don't remember when, nor do I have the impression it would enter. So there is no clean technology that can prevent heavy metals, including nickels, from leaving major and harmful consequences to the protection of the environment in Serbia. In this regard, there are particularly dangerous gaps that must be huge, because nickel metal that takes a lot of ore to get a little pure metal. These are all arguments that made the DSS feel it was necessary to submit a bill prohibiting the exploitation of nickel in Serbia's territory. These are very important arguments for a country. A country such as Serbia is a small country, a densely populated country and has no territory that it can define for such a complicated, difficult and harmful process of nickel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2908	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -19, no one, with abstentions, voted 184 of the 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the urgent consideration of this proposal. The government proposed putting the Amnesty Act on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 October 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – there was no, no – there were no, no – there was no, there was no, there was no 203 of the 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed to put the draft law on confirmation of the guarantee contract (A project to improve water systems in Subotica) on the agenda between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 5 October 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – there were no abstentions – there were no, there was no 198 of the 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Dujovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on Boring-Invalid Protection, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 October 2012. Does Mr. Dujovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – there were no abstentions – there were no, there were no 189 MPs from a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on co-operation in the field of energy, which submitted to the National Assembly on 5 October 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – there were no abstentions – there were no, 195 of the 197 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Migration Management Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 October 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – there were no abstentions – there were no, there were no 197 of the 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda a proposal for a decision to abolish the immunity of MP Oliver Dulic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 6 October 2012. I'm putting the motion to the vote, unless the motionor wants to give an explanation. I have a problem. It is enough for 125 MPs to put the proposal on the agenda. So don't be suspicious it's because of the vote. Most of the total number of Members present is sufficient. So it doesn't take a total number to make it on the agenda. I ask the MPs to vote again because I have a problem with the electronic system. A sufficient number of MPs voted to keep it on the agenda. It means you have no doubt about it. Please make another statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – there were no abstentions – there was no vote of 63 out of the 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for the sitting on the agenda of the emergency proceedings, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – there were no abstentions – there was no vote of 59 out of the 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Dn e v n ir e d 1. Proposal for a decision to abolish the immunity of MP Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2909	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I called at the very beginning of the session in the Rules of Procedure to ask Parliament, first of all, for you, if you don't want Parliament to make a decision that I think is important today. It is common for parliament to work with a break from 14.00 to 15.00 hours, however, as you probably know on Friday, Professor Vojin Dimitrijevic passed away and for today at 12:00 in the City Assembly is scheduled for a memorial. I suppose many MPs, in any case, the entire LDP parliamentary group, would like to attend the event, and I think it would be a good idea to set a break in a different way today, not to work from 11.45 to 13.00 hours, and to continue our work afterwards. I don't think I should particularly explain the importance of Professor Dimitrievich, especially today. Today we are deciding on some constitutional guarantees of human rights and I think we would throw a shadow into this work if you would allow the session to take place without the presence of some MPs, and on the other hand some MPs are denied the opportunity and, I would say, the obligation to attend this event. If you do not wish to do so, then I suggest that, under Rule 101 of this Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly be made aware of the interruption of the session in the period I have stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2910	I'll take your proposal and today we'll have a break from 12:00 to 1:00. We move to the first item of the agenda - a motion for a decision on the suspension of immunity to the national envoy, Oliver Dulic. For this item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision to abolish the immunity of MP Oliver Dulic, you have received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly with a proposal for a decision to abolish the immunity of MP Oliver Dulic. Before opening a single search, I remind you it's consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate for parliamentary groups for five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2911	I'm referring to Article 27. A Rules of Procedure which obliges Parliament's president to take care of the functioning and normal work of all bodies of the Assembly. At the same time in this respect, he was invited to Article 252. A Rules of Procedure which speaks precisely when discussing the problem of immunity that a special MP must be called upon to whom it is concerned. This was not done on this occasion and Mr. Dulic was not invited to the session. In addition, members of the Administrative Committee, members of the Democratic Party are not invited to the meeting, including the Vice-President of the Committee. This is the most cruel way of violating the Rules of Procedure, the work of the Assembly and the elementary procedures. Since the law exists and legal processes have always been heard by the other side. You can't argue about someone and someone's guilt without his word being heard or the word of a defense, then it all loses its legal meaning. In addition, the Administrative Board made another mistake very easily. The Criminal Code of Article 359 describes the incriminating work of abuse of office. To leave aside that it is a member who has come across the great resistance of international legal institutions and the Venice Commission. The removal of that member was requested because its definition allows endless abuse of the prosecution. He's got three bets. (President: Pay attention on time.) You may refuse me from the time of the parliamentary group. (President: I can't, unfortunately, we agreed not to reject it that way. I suggested something like that, but most of it was against it. I'll be very brief. The 1st point states that an official who provides himself or another benefit or is more likely to harm the rights of another will be sentenced by imprisonment from six months to five years. If that attitude is used, it is not possible to say whether an immunity can be removed. In the second position, if it was executed, etc., over 450,000 dinars will then be punished for eight years, and if more than that, it will be punished for up to 12 years. So, what attitude was used here. You can't see that in a letter from the D.A.'s office and an explanation. Such inadequacies, with all the things I've been saying, that the other side has not been heard, that people are not invited, make this whole process infinitely suspicious. I'd like to ask you to discuss this in particular. A team before there are no legal consequences, because Mr. Dulic gave up immunity. He went to the D.A. himself to explain himself. Two members of the group, as they called it, his two assistants, were heard and released home. There's no danger of him leaving peacefully and making that statement. Therefore, I would ask you to seriously consider this and make one decision to postpone this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2912	Thank you. I am obliged to answer you, all the MPs of the people, and thus the MP of the people Oliver Dulic, have been informed of today's session in the way it is done in the National Assembly. Since your MPs were at the Committee meeting, and I have here in front of me and an official note, made up of the secretary of this Committee, Mrs Svetlana Dedic, in which she informs me that I have sought, precisely because of this situation, a notice of the invitation to the Committee's session. She writes that she informed Aleksandra Raskovic, engaged in a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party, at the time the session was called, that a session of the Committee was called at 12.15 hours in Hall three, in order to immediately inform MP Oliver Dulic about whose immunity the Committee will discuss. As far as the Committee's session is concerned, two of the four members of the Democratic Party's Committee attended. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic earlier informed the Committee that, if planned, what exists in the official note, a session on that date that he would not be able to attend because he is not in Belgrade. So the three messengers of four were informed, their presence speaks of it. However, what you said about immunity, immunity is only voted for because Oliver Dulic's immunity was established by his calling for immunity which he did when contacted by the competent state authorities. He can call again at any moment for immunity if his immunity is not lifted. The intention of the National Assembly is to allow the judiciary to do its job. His abandonment of immunity at this time does not exclude his right to reiterate immunity. The word is made by MP Janko Radaković, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2913	Thank you. Dear President, honourable Members of the People, you have violated Article 72 and I appeal to article 72 because you have now deceived the public because you have said that members of the Administrative Board have been called to the session. Article 72 says: "The meeting session meeting session shall include: day, hour, session place and draft agenda. The sitting session shall be delivered in writing to the members of the committee, the parliamentary groups and the Government and shall stand out on the National Assembly's advertising board." I'm interested, as a member of that board of directors, when you called me, or when the president called me to the Administrative Board. He didn't invite me or the secretary of the board. This was the 21st session of that committee. I've been invited to everyone else in writing, making a phone call. Today, I got a call from Mrs. Secretary again and she said the 22nd session was held at 11.00 p.m. I asked her why she didn't call me on Saturday, and she told me what to tell you about it. The gravest violation of this Rules of Procedure, as well as the Law on the National Assembly, which states in Article 41 that the MP has the right to be fully informed of all matters of jurisdiction of the National Assembly, as well as the right to seek the notice he needs to carry out his duties. I can't do my job because you're back in the '90s politics, where you'll do everything in secret, past members who have the right to attend a board meeting. First of all, I can't get the record of that board after you've closed it to the public. I can only gain insight in front of people like the secretary of the board.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2914	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2915	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Assembly has just been injured by the Rules of Procedure, Rule 27 and Article 104. To my great regret, with the hope that he was misinformed about the way the information in the Assembly, based on the Rules of Procedure, must be forwarded. So the president of the assembly can't notify the secretary of the parliamentary club about the board meeting. I know it doesn't seem like some kind of big mistake to the public, that it doesn't seem like disrespect for procedure, but it is a very serious mistake. Unfortunately, if the argument on a meeting of the Administrative Committee held on Saturday comes down to this statement by the President of the National Assembly, then I have the right to express a very deep doubt that any of the procedures, the abolition of an important institute, such as the immunity of the MP, has been done in accordance with the law, done in accordance with the procedure and not on the basis of the abuse of political will of those who have a political will for most of the votes. The procedure for abolishing immunity is an important event in each congregation. It is equally important not to violate the procedures of which the president of the National Assembly, the National Assembly, is obliged to inform MPs within the National Assembly. The secretary of the club cannot be an address for the president of the National Assembly, nor can it be an address for the secretary of the National Assembly. Only the Secretary of the Administrative Board may be an address and the question is whether that part of the exchange of information has been made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I hope this is about the misunderstanding and misinformation of the President of the Assembly, because this is a serious offense in every assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2916	Thank you. Believe me, I really have no intention of hiding anything that happens in the National Assembly, and I'm sure no other colleagues, especially since the previous provisions in the Rules of Procedure have provided the parliamentary majority in all committees of the majority, so there is certainly no intention of overcoming anything in that sense, but if there were mistakes, although I am not personally guilty of it, I apologize to you and those people who are not invited. I hope that all services will in future invite the Members of Parliament to all committee meetings. I really have no intention of hiding anything. Otherwise, I must remind you that you have violated Article 104 because Mr. Micunovic has already called for a violation of Article 27, so you had no right to do so, but I will also take that as your wish to participate in this debate. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2917	Mr. President, you said in your statement that the National Assembly had taken a stand on the matter... (President: Which member are you referring to? ) To Article 107. You prejudged the Assembly’s statement. The assembly has not yet said on this issue, except for the establishment of the agenda itself, as to whether or not it will decide, it remains only after the day for the vote. Secondly, I'd like to point out, I'm a deputy member of the so-called Administrative Committee, and I have no information that the Administrative Board has been maintained until I've received material for today's session. In the event of a member being prevented, his deputy has the opportunity to come to the Administrative Committee, or to the Committee on Administrative Immunity Affairs, and to look for all explanations, and not to come into the situation that only when the plenary is scheduled then we discuss some of the things that were to be discussed on the Administrative Committee. If we had had had had the opportunity to discuss this on the Administrative Board, many things would have been clarified and whether the request from the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime had been sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to you as chairman of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, we would have seen that it had been written at the very least. I use that expression to try to measure every word, not to use a stronger expression, because there's a lot of things that at the very least require clarification before it comes to debate on the tide.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2918	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2919	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm advertising Article 72. The Rules of Procedure, which also concerns the process of calling for a session of the Administrative Committee on Saturday. I am also a member of this committee and I am not invited to the session in any way, and no LDP deputy member, Mr Nenad Milic, has been invited. I thought I wasn't answering today for this problem, because the situation on Saturday was such that after my protest, and I see also after the protest of some other colleagues, Mr Babic, who called me on Saturday afternoon to apologize for it. He was also talking about the official note that you were talking about, but the tone of that conversation, I'm not going to convince him, I just don't think it's appropriate for us to convince phone conversations here, was completely different from what you did here today and how you treat MPs who aren't invited to the board meeting. So, we, at least I got an apology from the board president, on the grounds that he understands that it's a very sensitive thing, and you've done a little bit here today. You're talking about how you have a majority on the board of directors. It's completely irrelevant. It is the right of members of the National Assembly committee to be invited to attend the session neatly, to obtain material and attend it, and it is absolutely irrelevant who has the majority. If you implement that logic to the end, then you don't have to invite us to parliament sessions, because you also have a majority, so you can decide between yourselves. So, this cannot be a matter of professional services, secretaries, attempts to deliver an invitation to a Parliament club on Saturday morning, since Saturday is not a working day, and I ask you to at least apologize to the MPs and no longer learn about the very important meetings of the Administrative Committee from the news of the state agency TENJUG. That would be best.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2920	Thank you. I was not talking about the majority of the Administrative Committee as an excuse for why the MPs were not called, but just as an explanation to point out to the MPs that there was no intention to do anything. I'm sure it's a mistake. If the President of the Administrative Board has apologized to you, I don't think it's really about the intention of hiding from anyone, because the documents and information from that committee are available to all the MPs. I don't think it was really meant for anyone not to call you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2921	President, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, members of 86 and 88 relating to the call and opening of the session. Why do I say that? Those who participated in the previous National Assembly meeting, when we wrote the Law on the National Assembly, know very well that both the Law and the Rules of Procedure have elaborated constitutional provisions, and the constitutional provision says that an MP who calls for immunity against him cannot be conducted criminally. It is also in the Law and in the Rules of Procedure. You know very well, she had the opportunity and the public to hear it, and probably now someone's on the phone, that Oliver Dulic made a statement at a press conference and said he wasn't calling for immunity. The man said today he's not calling for immunity. He said Saturday he wasn't calling for immunity. He went to the police to make a statement. So we can't discuss, according to the Constitution, nor by law, nor by the Rules of Procedure, the abolition of the immunity of one who hasn't called for immunity. On the other hand, if someone doesn't call for immunity, you will see it in the Law, both in the Constitution, and in the Rules of Procedure, that we can discuss the establishment of his immunity. He who does not call, if he considers himself necessary, can establish immunity, and whoever calls for immunity, his immunity is lifted. So it is your argument – he called, so he gave up, so he could call again. If Oliver Dulic ever again called for immunity, we would have the basis to discuss abolishing that immunity. We don't have the basis for a debate on the abolition of immunity, because he doesn't seek immunity and he went to the police to make a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2922	I really don't know that part about the competent state authorities dealing with this investigation and I wouldn't interfere with it, but the fact that MP Oliver Dulic, who exists in the official note, called for immunity and at that point, the prosecution, when he was called, demanded that his immunity be taken away. At any moment, he could again call for immunity and that was exactly the motive of the prosecution to ask for his immunity in the National Assembly to be taken away. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2923	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 108. Mr President, at the beginning of the session you were obliged to give a measure to the President of the Administrative Committee, at least a reminder, if not some other measure, because of the way he called, because of the way he led and the way he treated the members of that committee. At 12.12, you scheduled a session in 12.15 hours. He did not allow MPs to read the indictment, to read the agenda. He asked the MPs to plead immediately. You are obliged to give a measure to the chairman of the Committee on Administrative Affairs. You wanted to be the first among the equals, be the first among the equals. Don't let the SMS run this session from the vice president's office. Stop this circus. The policy you're leading is not for the National Assembly, the policy of the water is for the circus. Stop this and we won't... (President: I will not allow you to address such a dictionary in this house. This may be a circus for you, but for the citizens of Serbia this is the National Assembly and I ask you not to insult the dignity of the National Assembly with such words. I won't let you or anyone else do that. What are you going to do with the policy you're running?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2924	I'm taking your word. The word has been made by MP Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2925	I believe that during the time Mr. Konstantinovic tried to make the most of the argument... (President: Please state the member you are referring to. Tell me at the beginning. ) Nowhere does it say that it has to be said at first. (President: writes.) ) During the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, no discard is allowed. It's about Article 106. The Rules of Procedure, and I believe that during the time Mr. Konstantinovic spoke there were discards and interruptions, while he tried in a reasoned way to explain his position. In no way have you protected him in terms of the possibility of making procedural remarks here. Whether it was a phone call or not, I don't want to go into it, but the assistants at the chair were supposed to tell you that an injured member was 106. The Rules of Procedure, because I think it's clear enough, Article 106(3), that it should be protected. How do we expect that, when we talk about the very point of the agenda, we are properly followed, if even in these procedural things that need to be the basis, to open the debate, we cannot listen? This is about things that at the very least require deep attention from all of us, especially when it comes to the paper that arrived at the National Assembly, which contains a huge number of shortcomings. Some of it was pointed out by Professor Micunovic on the question of the reference of Article 359 whether the position was 1, 2 or 3. What's this about? It's about mixing the institutes of enforcement, encouragement, complicity of this or that. So obviously there's no idea what this is about, and that was supposed to be discussed first and foremost on the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2926	Thank you. Let me just read you Article 103(3). - The MP is obliged to indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the President of the National Assembly and to explain. So it implies it's at the beginning, because it's impossible to explain if you don't specify which member is injured. So, then it is doubtful that you have already listed a member who may have already mentioned someone during the debate, or of course you haven't guessed which member. But I think that's it and I'm going to provide you with a written explanation, that's not controversial. National MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2927	Mr. President, there's been multiple injuries to the entire Rules of Procedure. I refer to multiple members, let's say Article 107(1), then Article 103, which you've read now and in attitude 3 clearly writes when it should, Section 4, then it's obliged to speak for two minutes, and that's attitude 5, and that was broken here several times today. Please just yes, it is obvious that it is only the tactics of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club, in this day and in the next period this Rules of Procedure are strictly respected, and it is obvious that this is necessary. It was brought in in the previous term, and as a MP, I was against it. It was not accepted with great reason then by members of the majority and MPs of the DS. What is happening today, the story of the procedure, cannot prevent the fight of corruption and crime in Serbia, nor will it prevent it, we will continue to do this and, of course, respond to the prosecution's calls for those who call for immunity, which was the case here, so we will do it today. But I would also ask you, in a technical sense, that we all think, because this is not the first time the opposition has talked about not being informed of something in time, but once we do something that we all know should and will cheapen this Parliament's work, which is that the delivery of material goes through one software, calls and everything else. We all have laptops and that story about buying laptops isn't necessary, but that way we won't have that kind of procedural errors anymore, so we can finish it once. Now, slightly speaking, the unpleasant situation we are in is just because someone wants to protect themselves and what they did in the previous period. In the prosecution, it is in the courts to do their job, it is our job to enable them to fight crime and corruption cannot be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2928	Thank you. The People's MP Zoran Babic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2929	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's no uninvited coffee in Serbia. A session of the Administrative Committee... (President: You must specify the member you are referring to. ) I am mentioned in Mr. Mikovic's presentation. (President: But you have no right to the Rules of Procedure...) ) Article 72. A Rules of Procedure which makes it clear that a committee meeting is being delivered in writing... (President: I apologize, but you cannot appeal to Article 72 because Article 72 is already mentioned during the debate. I don't know how many members are mentioned, as Mr. Shormaz says. But I don't know why I don't have the right to a replica when I'm mentioned. (President: You have the right to a replica, but then you would have to wait for all those who reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure to get the word. All right, I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2930	National MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2931	President-in-Office of the National Assembly, my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 110. The Rules of Procedure, which corresponds to Rule 109, concerns what you ordered from your post, my fellow MP, Dejan Nikolic. Article 110 says this - the measure of confiscation of words is expressed to the People's MP who has previously been given two measures of warning and who, after that, violates the order of the sitting or acts against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. counterpart Dejan Nikolic used only one word to make the current debate look like what it looks like. As for Article 109, the notice is made to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the President of the National Assembly, who speaks before he has asked and received the word, who, despite the warning of the National Assembly president, speaks about a question that is not on the agenda, if he interrupts the speaker in the presentation or throws it away, or otherwise threatens the freedom of speech, which directly addresses the other MP if he uses swearing, etc. None of this was done by MP Dejan Nikolic. And this hack, first of all through the media, and then also through the representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, leads against MP Oliver Dulic, unfortunately, deeply reminds me of the heifer that was led against the MPs in the past meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when an MP from Vršc, Mrs Biljana Hasanovic, was beaten with the stamps afterwards, and we remember that doctors were fighting for her life. We remember the hickey that preceded the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. I think, on behalf of the protection of human rights, on behalf of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, everyone has the right to defend themselves and that everyone is innocent until proven otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2932	Thank you. People's MP Janko Radakovic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2933	Your Honor, you've violated Article 103 of Section 5 where you had to give me... (President: You cannot appeal to Article 103 because it has already been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) All right, I'm calling for Article 105. Dear President, you must answer me and give me an explanation of my violation of the Rules of Procedure, that is, on my request to report to the Rules of Procedure, you must give me your word and you must give me an explanation of what you have said. You can't apologize to me here, because I don't have any of that. You can't say that you didn't have a bad intention either of you or the President of the Administrative Board, but you had to call me because I'm a member of that board, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I know that you're a man who likes to judge in this assembly people who haven't even come to court yet. Please, since I can see that you can't have a session, take a break, call Mr. Wolfie to tell you what to do and move on after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2934	Please, I understand that you have the need to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure if you feel that he has been violated and you have the right to do so, but Article 105 speaks about who is speaking from the pay phone in the O.R., article 105, says who can get the word and when. So I ask that you too keep the dignity of the Assembly, regardless of what you think it may be, what you think is right to report for the violations of these members of the Rules of Procedure that simply don't speak at any point about the injuries that are on the agenda. So, I ask the National Assembly to stick to the dignity of the National Assembly, so that this congregation will pass in order. If someone thinks that by reporting to members of the Rules of Procedure, they will interfere with the work of the National Assembly and that we will end the work, we will work as long as necessary, and if all members of the Rules of Procedure who may be injured are exhausted, we will also work after that and this agenda will be completed, as well as any next item of the agenda at all subsequent sessions of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs at this point to accept that we continue our work in a normal manner. People's MP Srdjan Mikovic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2935	I applied and advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure immediately after the event occurred, where I consider the Rules of Procedure injured. (President: Which member, excuse me? ) Article 106(2), not point 3, but point 2. .. (President: You can't appeal to members... ( ) But you, by your actions after pointing to article 106, have injured Article 106, paragraph 2. I referred to Section 3 and you, by your actions, violated Article 106(2) and immediately applied, precisely because I believe that you are misreading Article 103(4) as regards the time when the MP is obliged to indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the conduct of the President. It does not appear in Article 103(4) when it is due, and I am obliged to indicate by the end of two minutes which member and which position has been injured and never before when I pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have not left out to indicate which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. If I start quoting just the text of a member or a certain attitude that's been injured, I think it's also an indication and an explanation to everyone why there's been some injury. I think that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2936	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2937	I will point out the violation of Rule 101 of Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure because you were obliged to set a break in the work of the session, since the session of the Administrative Board is scheduled for 11.00 hours, and no one attends it, so let's just see if it's possible to make decisions without anyone's presence.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2938	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2939	Mr. President, you gave a rather strange interpretation when you took away Mr. Babic's word, namely, you, contrary to the provisions of Article 103(2), claim that the MP cannot advertise a member of the Rules of Procedure whose injury has already been indicated. That's not true. Please don't establish that as a rule in the congregation. The MP cannot point to the same violation of the Rules of Procedure which has already been indicated, and you can hurt the same member several times through your various actions, and that does not mean that if someone has already pointed to a member's injury, that it cannot be re-emerged from that member's injury, but only cannot be pointed at the same injury. Therefore, please do not allow the free interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, the incorrect interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, to make it impossible for the Members to speak here, because you can, during one session in theory 15, 17 and 37 minutes, violate the same member of the Rules of Procedure and that means that MPs cannot tell you. So please let us read the Rules of Procedure as it says and do not violate it in this way anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2940	The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2941	I would like to advertise the violation of Rules of Procedure in 103, too, and I appeal to the right explained by Member Alexander Jerkov. So we won't misread the Rules of Procedure, that if someone calls once on a member of the Rules of Procedure that no one has the right to call in this room anymore... (President: Excuse me, do you now wish to point to the same violation of the Rules of Procedure, which she wanted to point to Alexander Jerkov... ) No, but I want to say something else, I want to say that you are unnecessary and without the right to take Mr Babic's word away, who is the chairman of the Administrative Committee... (President: I'm sorry, and you are now pointing to the same violation of the Rules of Procedure as the MP Alexander Jerkov pointed out, as she said... No, I'm talking about you hurting the Rules of Procedure because you took away (President: Mr. Jugovic, I don't want to go into controversy with you, but you point to the same violation of the Rules of Procedure, you even took the same example for Mr. Babic, there's no difference in one sentence. I hope, then, that after what I have said, what Alexandra Jerkov said is a little clearer to those who hold a session of parliament, that there is a right to be announced twice by a member, but on another basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2942	Thank you for that, but that's exactly what Mrs. Jerkov said. The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2943	I also refer to Article 103, but Section 8 says that -- that constituency that abuses time, that it should be taken away from the time for debate as much as it has abused, because this is about a classic devising of today's session course. It's an old manner of DS, that when they're concerned they're devising everything that's true in public all the time. None of Serbia will take away what the citizens asked for, we will try to help the government of the Republic of Serbia and state authorities protect the interests of all Serbian citizens. In this case, it is an abuse of the official position of Mr Dulic. Obviously, that's not enough for you, gentlemen of the DS, and who knows what else you've got in there that we have to deal with these days and the next, but the fact of the matter is that this process of yours is showing all the haughtiness of the government as you've done it. You show in all ways that you never cared about the people or this country, but only you and your interests. You show what Serbia has punished you for, to leave the government and sit in opposition for a long time. So we ask you as people to simply establish the immunity he sought, simply annul and create the conditions that a man can defend himself against the state authorities, because we do not arrest him, we just insist that like all other citizens can be called, heard, so if someone finds that he has some elements, let him do according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2944	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2945	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Chairman, Article 27, which concerns the responsibilities of the National Assembly President, where it is said that - the President of the National Assembly is representing the National Assembly, convenes its meetings, chaires them and does other tasks in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. Please don't take this time away from me while I read article 27. You have violated this provision, the chairman, because you are present these days beyond a provision that gives you authority with clear provisions on what you can do. You have been both a judge and a prosecutor these days, and on the other hand, you do not lead this Assembly in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure, you have injured almost all the members of the Rules of Procedure, you have violated the Constitution and in calling for a session, and when it comes to criminal law, and your colleagues have already mentioned Article 359, which is why you do not know why immunity is required, so I suggest you resign to your office, and if it wants to be protected by your colleague, the President of the Administrative Board, let him resign because this is a violation of the Assembly's reputation and this is a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure, not only the Rules of Procedure, but also the Constitution and all the accompanying laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2946	Thanks for the suggestion. So you have the opportunity in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to apply for the resolution of the President of the National Assembly, if you feel that this is necessary and that this is your parliamentary right. Have I hurt the Rules of Procedure, yet you are neither judge nor judgment, you cannot decide whether I have hurt the Rules of Procedure and you can state your opinion, but they will decide, let me say, that will be decided by the National Assembly, and the National Assembly will decide in the Voting Day whether I or I have not hurt the Rules of Procedure and everything else. So, I point only to all the mechanisms that you have the right to in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and of course, as far as taking time for quoting is concerned, unfortunately this Rules of Procedure does not foresee, that was once a decade ago. What do you say? (Janko Veselinović, from the post: What do you say I didn't vote? Yes, yes, I said we'd come forward in voting day, about whether or not I hurt the Rules of Procedure, of course. National MP Zoran Babic according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2947	Please, Mr. President, give me my time. I'm referring to article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'll pick up where you left off earlier. There's no uninvited coffee in Serbia either. At the meeting of the Administrative Board, which was held on Saturday, two members of the DS Administrative Committee were present, not by chance, but because the meeting call was sent to Article 72. Rules of Procedure and sent to the DS Parliament Club. This way I apologize for not knowing how many parts of DS there are right now, and if we need to send in more parts of the call, and I'm going to, and I'm going to apologize deeply, and next time we're going to make it right. At the same time, I consider this, and this whole session process so far, that it is an attempt to stop the judicial authorities of the Serbian state, to prevent their work, because I fear that following these remarks, the following remarks will be made on the wrinkled collar of a police officer who tried to bring Mr Oliver Dulic, or on a dirty police car, or on such a mistake in the procedure itself. Please, let's get this session into normal flows, I didn't plan on speaking this way, I didn't want to talk this way, but I'm asking you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2948	I am asking the MPs who belong to all the parliamentary groups, since during the day there were objections to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I think Mr Mikovic made that remark to be dropped during the session, so I am asking all the Members of Parliament to refrain from being thrown away during the speech of the MPs. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2949	I'm advertising Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, the speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly, is required to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, attitude 2 at the session of the National Assembly, are not allowed directly to address the MP to another MP, the use of offensive expressions, as well as the presentation of facts and assessments. The speaker Tomic from SNS mentioned and directly addressed the MPs of the DS, that what we are doing is unique to us. I just want to remind you that the Serbian Radical Party in earlier councils has just abused the assembly pay phone, to extend the work of the session to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure and replicas, which is why it has changed the Rules of Procedure that looks like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2950	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2951	I'm advocating the Rules of Procedure, Article 65(2), and now I'm going to explain why. I have listened carefully to my colleagues from the DS, and ladies and gentlemen, neither Serbia begins with this government nor the life of this parliament with this majority, there has been a number of years. I'd just like to remind the DS MPs that only 15 months ago, you've been bribing MPs through the Administrative Board and dragging them through the press, and those who didn't call for immunity, you've been removing their immunity from the Administrative Board. Don't say that it's not true, it is on the Administrative Board. You took off everyone, you scheduled sessions on removing immunity from the MPs whose time flow stopped prosecution, but it was important to write in the press. It was important for the then chairman of the Administrative Committee to come out and say that no one was protected by the immunity of the MP. You've been doing this for car accidents, and now you've been talking since the high-ranking official of the former government, about the minister. I don't judge, no one here is judging anyone. The state authority has requested the removal of immunity. Why? It is, in their opinion, that there are serious assumptions that a crime has been committed, and it is nothing else. If you consider our colleague, which is exactly what I say an MP, not guilty, then it is in his interest to defend himself against the judicial authorities. But you should also know what you are constantly avoiding to say, which is that the MP can use his right to call for immunity as long as the first-degree procedure takes place. So, at any point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2952	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2953	The violation of the Rules of Procedure to Rule 107, the speaker at the National Assembly session, is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. (President: We've already looked back on it several times. ) Mr Tomic speaks of Oliver Dulic's guilt, he's already being judged, it needs to be determined by the judiciary, it needs to be determined through the process ahead, and you cannot judge through the media or judge at this session of the National Assembly, and I ask you to protect the dignity of the National Assembly. This is one farce political, from Oliver Dulic's immunity, to make a farce. He did not call for immunity and it was possible to conduct a hearing. It's a farce, probably so you can't see how you're moving Serbia, how you started it, how there's no oil and sugar, how inflation goes over 10% by the end of the year, that's what Serbian citizens see, and you won't hide it with this farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2954	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2955	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you violated President 107 by giving Mr Babic your word, because he cannot come forward on the basis of a violation of article 65. I was present at the session as deputy to Mr. Konstantinovic, I was totally accidentally in the National Assembly building, I came to a press conference scheduled by Minister Oliver Dulic. At 12 o'clock and 12 minutes, the secretary of the Parliament Club said the session was scheduled in 12 hours and 15 minutes. In doing so, all members of the Administrative Committee, which individual opposition parties, of course, were in Hall III. So Babic obviously schedules the Administrative Board as a coffee invitation, not one important body that discusses one really important thing. I ask you to point out to Mr Babic, if he is a member of the SNS as chairman of the Administrative Board, he doesn't even know the Rules of Procedure of this House, then he really tells the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2956	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2957	President, I'd like to refer you to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure you're violating. It is article 107, and you are violating it for one simple reason, which is that someone cannot report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and address the other parliamentary group or the other MP. You're the only one who can do the damage to the Rules of Procedure. Those of us who advertise that injury, we speak to you. I don't know why Veroljub Arsic is talking to the DS parliamentary group, I don't know why he talks to me and tells the truth. In the past term, four MPs from the Veroljub Arsic parliamentary group were subject to proceedings before the Administrative Committee. The Management Board proposed that their immunity be lifted only because they called for immunity. If they hadn't called for immunity, they wouldn't have discussed it. The Serbian Parliament has never decided on this, because then the parliamentary group led by Branko Ruzic felt that this was not to be discussed. That's the facts. Dabi finished something that doesn't look like a session, please arrange a session, that you simply answer, if there are objections to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you, not that we have a clash between MPs' groups on the procedural subject. I don't think the MPs will be answering this topic anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2958	Of course, I will respect all the MPs who have come forward after this, but also the MPs from your parliamentary group have addressed and talked about the topics of government members, etc. So, I don't want to influence how MPs will interpret their breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I will no longer allow the same infringements of the Rules of Procedure to be used. The article 107, which has six views, has already been mentioned several times and has been mentioned in every way possible. The Rules of Procedure were brought in such a way as to prevent the senselessness that all 250 MPs in a circle could appear in the same article and then no session of any assembly session would ever end again. So I think it's my right as someone who runs this session. Of course, I will allow you to call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but those who make the same remarks will not really allow them to continue. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2959	I would like to point out the violation of Rule 48(7) of the Rules of Procedure. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law shall, inter alia, monitor the application of this Rules of Procedure. I'm the chairman of this committee, and I don't remember anyone in this National Assembly coming to me and saying something's wrong with the Rules of Procedure, that the way it's applied is wrong or anything like that. Of course, as chairman of the Committee, I am always willing to accept and consider all necessary amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, but on condition that anyone comes. Of course, it was obviously very convenient for some MPs here today to abuse the Rules of Procedure, which I hope the President of the National Assembly will no longer allow. I am prepared to schedule a session of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee whenever you wish. On the other hand, I think that part of these discussions is directly contrary to the Constitution for the reasons that certain MPs, and I will not say from which party, because then I would give them the right to report for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, have remembered that they are again affecting the work of the judiciary and the prosecution, which they have ruined themselves, to show again the dissatisfaction with the fact that certain provisions of the CAP and the KZ, which we, as the opposition, have been pointing out all along. There'll be an opportunity to discuss it. In any case, it may also be my proposal to the President of the National Assembly, if it agrees, all the objections and all the suggestions on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, if you are not asked now, I am prepared to immediately, as soon as we finish this session, put into consideration the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and legislatory, which is the only authority, and I am its President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2960	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2961	Your Honor, Mr. President, with all due respect to your desire to create a toleranceal atmosphere here, what is your superior obligation is to strictly respect the Rules of Procedure. I refer to all the members who commit you, therefore, from Articles 104 to 107. You, on no basis, should have allowed the previous speaker to, invoking a member who cannot be broken during this session and cannot be called upon to injure the Rules of Procedure during the course of this session, give your word and allow him to further show all his ignorance, from the authority of the Committee, whose head and all his ignorance of what he can do and what he cannot do despite my belief that he can do whatever he wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2962	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2963	I'm reporting on Article 253. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since I have listened carefully to some of my colleagues, firstly, to say that no MP from the previous SNS meeting has been removed nor has it been established. What I was about to say is the ugliest thing, which is that the Administrative Board was removing immunity and proposing to the assembly, eight months before the election date, to abolish the immunity of the MPs. (NenadKconstantinović, from the place: On what basis does the MP speak? ) Article 253. On what criteria did the former Administrative Committee take place when it came to the immunity of MPs? I don't know if there's ever been such an act against the people's MPs and what kind of circus has been going through the press because of ordinary MPs, where the subject of a crime has mostly been acts of indiscretion, not abuse of official office. That's the difference between your decisions and this one right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2964	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2965	Thank you. Mr. President, I will adjust you to Article 103, paragraph 4, which says that the MP, who wants to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, lists a member and explains what these injuries are. So the essence of this provision is not that the People's Messengers indicate any member of the Rules of Procedure, and then speak to them whatever comes to mind, but the essence of this is to explain to you in what way you have done the pruning of the Rules of Procedure and ask you for an explanation of your actions. Please do not allow MPs of the ruling coalition, in fact, the SNS, although you have left, I can see how interested you are in working this session, but I ask the Vice-President of the Assembly, who will take over the chair of the session, not to allow SNS MPs to hold political speeches under the guise of the Rules of Procedure and to actually give replicas on which they have no right at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2966	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2967	I think he's a injured member of the 27th in terms of advocating the chairman's injury to the Rules of Procedure. (President: Mr. Mikovic, we've already had a 27.) Let me say it. An injury was done during Mr. Cvian and Mr. Arsic's discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2968	Mr. Mikovic, we've already heard about Article 27's injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2969	You couldn't hear, because Mr. Cvian was speaking right now and Mr. Arsic was now speaking directly. So, article 27 wasn't mentioned after their discussions. I'm talking about it. The fact is, Mr. Cvian warned the president that he hopes no further breach of the Rules of Procedure will be made. It pleases me to share our opinion, that so far the Rules of Procedure have been broken many times, but if the chairman has given an explanation that he has not broken the Rules of Procedure, then he should have given an explanation of why he is not and why Mr Cvian is possibly wrong. Otherwise, you'd be right if the Rules of Procedure were broken. Secondly, Mr. Arsic is calling for Article 253. The Rules of Procedure, and Article 253 defines another area, not the one concerning the removal of immunity. If we follow the Rules of Procedure, let us follow him properly, no matter where the discussion goes, to try to respect what is in these books that everyone has received.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2970	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2971	Dear gentlemen of the People's Parliament, shortly before I spoke of a member's injury...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2972	Please state which member of the Rules of Procedure you are referring to.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2973	This is a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2974	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2975	I've been mentioned twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2976	We're breaking this up. The next speaker is MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must now appeal to Article 27 in the context of the fact that if my predecessor is allowed, it must be mine too.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2978	You're advertising Article 27?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2979	That's right. If my colleague Mikovic is allowed, I must be allowed to do the same. Now I'll tell you for what reason. So, for the same reason as my colleague Mikovic, but this is obviously a different understanding of parliamentaryism and a different understanding of how this Assembly should function. We have clearly had the abuse of the Rules of Procedure by some of the opposition's MPs so far. I thought the president of the National Assembly should also take care of the order in this session, but also the expenses of the session itself. I admire Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, how much tolerance he has for the truly arrogant behaviour of certain opposition MPs and for allowing them to constantly abuse this Rules of Procedure. If I were him, I wouldn't have that much tolerance, but I repeat, I congratulate him, and in that context, my presentation was addressed to the president of the National Assembly. So, in no way did I think that he was in violation of the Rules of Procedure, even on the contrary, he is extremely correct in running this session, but this correct leadership and culture of Mr Stefanovic, apparently some here abuse it. So once again, I call upon Article 27, and I pray to whoever is chairing the National Assembly, to return this meeting to normal flows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2980	Thank you. Since we've set a break of 12.00 hours, I'd like to ask you immediately to take a break and proceed at 13.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2981	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before the opening of a single search, I remind you that the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours and that it is allocated to a relative number of MPs of members of the parliamentary group. Since the time of the debate is five hours, I find that the time of debate per parliamentary group of SNS belongs to one hour, sixteen minutes and 48 seconds; to the parliamentary group DS - one hour, one minute and 12 seconds; to the parliamentary group of the SPS - JS - 30 minutes; to the parliamentary group DSS - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - nine minutes and 36 seconds; to the parliamentary group of the LDP - 16 minutes and 48 seconds; to the parliamentary group of the Single Serbia - eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group of the Duchy Democratic Party - six minutes and 48 seconds; to the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia - nine minutes and 36 seconds; to the parliamentary group of Unital Serbia - eight minutes to 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group of the Vojvodina Group of Hungarian Hungarians - six minutes; to the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party group of Serbia – to the six minutes to the national group. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall determine, by mutual agreement, not more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. Also, you have received the resignation of MP Stana Bozovic as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. Accordingly, and pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and 4. Law on the election of MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity of the National Assembly, finds that the mandate has ceased, and before the time it was elected, to the MP Stani Bozovic on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to be represented under these points of the agenda: MP Vladimir Cvian, MP of the SNS International MP Ivan Andric, MP of the LDP. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and Immunity Affairs, MP Zoran Babic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2982	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I deeply believe that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the most legislative body is the place where laws are created and adopted in the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that parliament is the place to be a driver of change in Serbia. I also believe that parliament must perform its control function over the executive authorities in full capacity. What I also believe and what SNS stands for is that the Serbian Parliament will not be a place where individuals who have committed or suspected of committing crimes will find protection, whether that protection is legal or moral. Also, I believe that the Serbian Parliament will not and should not be defended by the judicial authorities in the performance of its duties. Regardless of the color of the uniforms we wear, regardless of the club we cheer for or for which we play, the system of responsibility must exist. These are, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, new values, not political persecution, and everyone but those whose conscience is burdened with the past understands that. Hide behind Article 103. The constitution, which defines parliamentary immunity for those who, by their actions, have impoverished our society, for those who have compromised the perspective of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, must not be allowed. No matter how powerful, rich or influential they are, they must account for the competent independent judicial authorities. In Serbia, unfortunately, there is a culture of corruption. That is why I support the state's resolve and courage, as well as the activities of the Serbian government's authorities in the fight against corruption in the face of the monster. There are no powerful, untouchable and protected in this struggle, as we expect our partners from the EU and friends of Serbia from Moscow to Washington, and, above all, that is what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect from us. The fight against corruption will be long and difficult, but I am sure that this approach will ultimately make our society stronger and more perspective. This way, I also call on the state authorities responsible for fighting corruption, police, prosecution, courts, to continue to do their job independently and by law, unburdened by wealth, influence or political belonging to those for whom there are indications and evidence that they have committed corrupt crimes. For such work will always be supported in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and, more importantly, with citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The prosecution of organised crime puts serious crimes on Mr. Dulic's burden with very strong evidence. Mr. Dulic had a chance not to call for parliamentary immunity. He also had the opportunity to resign and thus relax more into this whole process. However, none of this happened, so the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime sent a request to the National Assembly to abolish parliamentary immunity to Mr Dulic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues adopted by the majority the proposal for a decision to abolish the immunity to Mr Dulic, which you received in the material, and forwarded it to the Assembly for adoption. The decision was opposed to two DS representatives on the Administrative Committee. Some members of the Administrative Board of the opposition party have objected to the speed of the convocation of both the Administrative Board and this session of the Assembly. However, for no reason or desire to justify myself, there are no hidden reasons, other than the desire to allow judicial authorities to do their job. The SNS parliamentary group will vote in favour of such a proposal for a decision to abolish immunity, both now and always in the future, for anyone who in the avoidance of justice is hampered by parliamentary immunity. I also call on all other parliamentary groups to vote in favour of this decision and therefore support the fundamental fight against corruption. (President: Time. I'm done. I think this decision is one way to restore the reputation of the Serbian parliament as an institution that will outlive us all, not to remain remembered for the shoes of Gordana Pop-Lazic, the stick of Nenada Canka or optical cables and "Nubi Invest" Oliver Dulic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2983	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2984	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Vice President, I appeal to Rule 1 of this Rules of Procedure, for I ask you to give us reasonable access to something that surprised me. Article 1 states that the Rules of Procedure regulates the work of the National Assembly in accordance with the Law on the National Assembly. This is where you think too much of Article 2. The Law on the National Assembly, which clearly states that this congregation is the most representative and legislative body. To achieve these functions to be the highest body, among other things, one of the mechanisms is parliamentary immunity, and that immunity is the measure of all immunity under the Constitution, so it is said – when determining the immunity of a minister or president of the Republic or a limited immunity of one of the authorities, then it is said: "enjoys immunity as a national MP". It is clear to me that many will be puzzled by the fact that for the last 12 years that I remember the first time there is a motion to remove immunity from a national MP, in this case it is a national MP who was also the president of the National Assembly. All this affects the political debate, but my request is, thank you for the tolerance when it comes to time, to take care of all the creations of preconditions for legal, investigative and other actions so far, which is certainly what this assembly stands for. One of the preconditions is that someone expected to participate in the procedure, because there are reasons set out in the letter to the Committee, is created a prerequisite by removing immunity. It has always been voted by all MPs and all MP groups. By opening the debate, there is an impression, and I want to say loud and clear, please, MP Oliver Dulic is as innocent or as guilty as any MP sitting in the National Assembly at this time. Here, by opening up every kind of debate, they overcome political passions, metaphors, prejudges, promises of what the National Assembly is going to do instead of some other organ. No, the National Assembly has a clear mechanism in line with the Rules of Procedure, which creates a kind of precondition, especially in the case where there is awareness and in the case of a MP, it has been made public. I just have to warn you on time. My request is, before you take away my word, just a second, that we all think one more time before we enter into a political debate about this, that a meeting may be scheduled with the heads of Parliament and that we see whether this time they will deviate from the usual way, so as not to create a completely unnecessary atmosphere and about the man who is our colleague and about the dignity of the National Assembly. Thank you all for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2985	Mr. Mikovic, on what grounds? According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2986	As for the breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, where the chairman... Please allow me to speak and charge this time, because I'm distracted during the debate, by throwing it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2987	Please don't win. Here you go, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2988	I think he's a injured member of 27. The Rules of Procedure that makes you look after the application of the Rules of Procedure. The fact is that during the discussion of the esteemed counterpart Babic, I expected to explain the report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues in the context of what is in the report and of the material that exists with the report. Every MP has the right to discuss as an individual, to express his opinion however he wants and to defend his opinion here. But if someone is a committee reporter and performs as a committee reporter, then we must go within the framework of the report and what is suggested. The other thing -- not to enter into the assumption that the presumption of innocence puts anyone at risk by bidding whether there are very solid, or such or such, or loose evidence of anything. So one story here when we are procedurally deciding whether -- the only one who owns the state of Serbia to discuss whether someone is guilty or not, is prejudged. You keep quiet, we're all sitting here, all of Serbia is watching. Or, say, there is no independence of the judiciary. I deeply believe in the independence of the judiciary, but that's why I insist that we stay here just what we need about procedural matters, about whether or not immunity will be lifted. And immunity needs to be removed, because I think what's written in the prosecution's application should be discussed as soon as possible. In relation to the content, and we'll talk about it in the context of the discussion, it can be discussed in seven days, there are written clues, and I don't think there is one. I would intimately like to be a lawyer in a case like this, because I would easily get to acquittal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2989	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. I'm taking care of it in this room. I didn't hear it in this room, and I don't agree that anyone here has violated the presummation of innocence. You know who in this country decides whether someone's guilty or not. What Mr. Babic said was there, as far as I could understand it, was a document by the prosecution that referred to an immunity request, nothing else. I think that's the only thing he said. Of course, presummation of innocence is something that, as my fellow MPs have said, no one should do. There's no talking here whether Oliver Dulic is guilty or not, like no other MP. We're just deciding here today whether or not we're going to remove the immunity. This is what the role of the National Assembly is, and it is for the competent judicial authorities to carry out the procedure in the manner they consider necessary, in accordance with the law. The People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jerkov, appeared after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2990	Mr. Mikovic, I have my word. (Srdjan Mikovic: I demand a statement. I thank you, Mr. President. I think you had to warn the previous speaker, given that the MP, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, is obliged to care for the dignity of the National Assembly. This assembly will not remain remembered by Oliver Dulic's optical cables, nor will it remain remembered by the stick of Nenada Chanka, whom I do not see in what connection they are in, given that both Oliver Dulic and Nenad Canak have willingly agreed to prove what happened in the place where they should be proven, in the place where they decide on their guilt. If something remains remembered, and if there is something that has violated the reputation of this assembly so much that it cannot wash the reputation of this assembly today, it is your party president, how in this house is waving transparency – the safe house for Ratko Mladic, for which he has no intention of responding, nor to prove his guilt or innocence, he has just taken off the badge with the character of Vojislav Seselj from the lapel, changed the name of the party, and thinks that we will forget him. These are the things someone needs to answer for. Oliver Dulic and Nenad Canak, if they're guilty of anything, please let the court decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2991	MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2992	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, all media attention, and I see from the speech of the distinguished colleague, in recent days it has been directed towards the president of the SNS, Mr. Alexander Vukic, behind whom the entire SNS stands, almost all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because they see the personification of the man who is fighting corruption in Serbia. That's why you're bothered by any of his actions or anything he'll do. In this, neither Mr. Vukic nor the SNS nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia will prevent us from dealing with corruption at any level and on any side to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2993	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2994	Thank you, Mr. President. I think everyone in our country who is involved in politics, who participates in public life and who has any intention of bearing any responsibility for what is happening in the country is clear that all these political factors should support the fight against corruption, the fight against crime. The unequivocally LSV supports every kind of fight like this. To anyone who is in order to determine the truth, to establish responsibility, to bring facts to light, we will provide unequivocal support. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina has never been and will not be a party that will in any way protect anyone who has sinned against the law. But this is all about everything, except that. There are several reasons and several facts why I say this, which I think in the Assembly, first of all, we need to talk about, given that in the past weeks, some things have happened that don't speak well of this Parliament, which I think, in part, you and the president personally, and that there have been in this whole process against Oliver Dulic, which is being defactoed in the media for a while, a few things that you personally had to deal with. The first person in our country to say Oliver Dulic was wrong about the law was the chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr Babic. In his first press statement, he said the next assembly would abolish Oliver Dulic's immunity, since he was wrong about the law. First, it is unclear how he knew what the decision of the National Assembly would be at the moment when the Administrative Committee had not yet made its statement. Secondly, it is even more unclear how he knows Oliver Dulic was wrong about the law. I think he kind of looked up to you because the first person in our country who said that Nenad Canak was to blame for what he did was you. You have made a statement that Nenad Canak and how he participated in the incident, and thus you have actually questioned the presumption of the innocence of all those who have the right to that assumption. I'm interested in how you and Mr. Babic know it. Do you know anything that the other MPs don't know? Do you know what the court's decision will be before it is made and if you have such information – which is why you have them, and the other MPs do not have them, given that it is very important that we have at least similar information or if you do not have such information – is this assembly the first court to judge its MPs and who will first find themselves called upon to condemn their MPs, not to protect them from the media that is being led against them and that in any way do you not react to all those things that happen to the MPs in the media? I see as one of your roles, Mr. President, and that you keep the dignity of the National Assembly. You have become the president of the Parliament who is silent while MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are calling the media pigs, thieves, criminals and beatings without a court verdict, without a trial, without even an investigation being conducted at the moment. You do not keep it, Mr. President, the dignity of these MPs, although it is your duty. You need to guard the dignity of the National Assembly. Therefore, the Assembly must not be silent when MPs call such names in the media, regardless of what MPs are concerned. No matter what the case is, and the National Assembly must not remain silent as the process is being conducted in the media in which witness statements, hearing dates, sources from the investigation are being made up. These are all things that the Assembly must react to if it cares about any, even basic respect for the law, procedures, democratic principles and human rights in this country. While the MPs are exposed to the media link, the president of the National Assembly, instead of defending the dignity of the National Assembly, is the first to join the link, and he is the first to actually deliver a verdict to those MPs on clearly mounted political processes. Every investigation and every arrest that has been announced on the front pages of the tabloids for two months is considered a political investigation and a political process, and it will always be so, because it cannot be called for days, weeks and months on the link of the MPs and then expected some fair trial, a fair trial with minimal respect for human rights. Where was the presumption of innocence in all this? I think we from the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina have the right to say that because we were the first to speak about the presumption of innocence for Goran Knezevic. At a time when the SNS was silent, and she kept silent until Goran Knezevic became a member, we from LSV, Bojan Kostreš and Nenad Canak said he was innocent until proven guilty. How many times has the SNS pre-election campaign been under way – how it is possible that Goran Knezevic is running for mayor first and then the minister, was one principle that we are still trying to defend here today, which is that everyone is innocent until proven otherwise. How did it happen that what applies to Goran Knezevic does not apply to Nenad Chanko and Oliver Dulic? What makes the citizens different in your eyes? Why doesn't the same principle and the same rule apply to everything? That's what this is all about today. It's not about someone trying to obstruct the work of the Assembly. It's not about someone trying to stop the elimination of immunity to Oliver Dulic, who, by the way, wakes up and doesn't call for immunity. It's about defending principles. It is the first human beings, and it is that citizens must be equal in front of all institutions, and MPs in particular must be equal in the eyes of the president of the National Assembly and those who represent the National Assembly. Another thing that is controversial in this whole situation is that for weeks and months we have been listening to DS rob Serbia, how DS ministers did this or how they wronged the budget, how they wronged the laws, how they caused damage to RS citizens in every way. When we adopted budget rebalancing here, we listened to the miracles and regrets of Mladjan Dinkic and Mrs Kalanovic about how they found themselves in the budget of incredible embezzlements, malversions, etc. If it is true that DS robbed Serbia, if it is true that DS ministers robbed Serbia, what was Dacic doing as police minister? If he couldn't do his job, why didn't he leave the government? G17 plus or the URS or whatever and the SPS are either people who didn't know what was going on in the government where they were sitting, in which they allowed DS ministers in front of their noses to rob Serbia, which makes them absolutely incompetent, or people who knew it all and let DS rob Serbia, which in that case makes them accomplices. That's the question to answer. Does the SNS sit in the RS government with absolutely incompetent people or with people who supported the DS in the major robbery of the Republic of Serbia and its budget? These are questions that first of all should be answered by those who form the government, those who have been running processes against people against whom no investigation has been launched in this country and those who at the same time represent themselves as the largest anti-crime and corruption fighters in this country. To speak, sorry, about the fight against corruption, and to have Karic in your ranks, it is as if on Saturday to go first and foremost to Lord Pavle and then to Jajinca to pay their respects to the victims of fascism and Nazism. These are the things that can obviously exist in our country. These are things that no one in our country reacts to. These are things that somehow became our everyday life. However, with another observation that anyone who has committed any crime should answer for him. You should underline one very big thing, Oliver Dulic and Nenad Canak each in their own way agreed to answer for the crimes that are being placed on them. There are many who will never do it, who have no intention of doing it, who don't see the need to do it, and I think they should think about their responsibility for everything that's going on and for everything that they should definitely take part in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2995	The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic, right on line. Thank you. I answered the line after I was mentioned in Ms. Jerkov's presentation. Of course, it is not true that I found anyone guilty, but I did say what Mr. Canak later in his sixth version of the address confirmed that he was involved in an event that certainly did not affect the dignity of the National Assembly. The fact is that he later confessed, so I don't see what's controversial about telling the truth. Of course, the truth is, I should be interested in whether the MPs are involved in something or not, so if they weren't involved in protecting them. I will not protect anyone who robs the money of Serbian citizens, who beats people in the streets, who behaves arrogantly, wildly in jeeps on this or any other Serbian city. I can't think of doing it, not me, not anyone else. It does not occur to us that we are suffering calls, or even from the EU, that this country has been robbed. Anyone who wants to say there was no robbery in this country is least uninvited. In this country, Serbian citizens have been robbed, companies and businesses have been destroyed and someone has to answer for it. Don't think anyone in this house will hide behind immunity. He won't. This majority that exists in the National Assembly will not allow them to be privileged, will not allow them to be protected, will not allow them to swear, nor behind parliamentary immunity. What I am doing as President of the National Assembly, I have never separated the MPs, but even the MPs can't expect, if they work against the law, that we will protect them here. We're not gonna determine if they're doing it by law, that's not our job. (President: Time. I'm done. Thank you. We're not going to determine that. It is up to us to determine whether we are in favour of abolishing their immunity and allowing the judicial authorities to finish this job and we will always do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2998	Thank you, Madam Chairman. None of you, Mr. Stefanovic, expected to take protection from someone who committed a crime. What you were expected to do was to protect the MPs of the people who are reported in the media to be pigs, thieves, criminals and beatings without being convicted of any crime. When it comes to protecting people who are accused of something, I remember you and everyone in your MP group when you took to protect people who are accused of genocide, war crimes, killings and the worst crimes against humanity, and now you're talking about not being able to protect someone who isn't looking for your protection and who was involved in a bar fight, or someone who's being accused of something that needs to be proven. Your protection to them, believe me, is not necessary. As you protected Ratko Mladic, he will be responsible for what he did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u2999	Dear People's MPs, just to let you know, as several MPs have been reported in the system, only Vladimir Cvian and Nebojsa Stefanovic are entitled to do so. As far as the other MPs are concerned, they have no right. (Dromir J. Karic, from the place: Replica. You are not an authorised representative. ( Dragomir J. Karic, from the place: she mentioned me by name. ) The word has Mr. Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3000	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen, is the first time I've reported to the House of the National Assembly of Serbia for the first time. I probably wouldn't answer that right now. I'd write a diary. It's probably going to be a good book, just for the sake of this discussion of a folk letter from the bench - for a better life. You have no right to speak at all about any criminalization or any conviction or lynch. If someone carried out the lynch against some people six years ago and it was published 47,000, please listen, because you are an excellent improvizer and you can talk even though you do not listen to me, it writes what electronics, which are written against the Karic family. Based on what? It didn't bother you at the time. Miss Jerkov, you're a beautiful woman, that's what I'm noticing. That's forbidden. All right, I got the yellow card. (President: Please do not address the MP directly. I'm sorry. I just want to tell you that what you said, we're on the SNS list, that no one is guilty until proven otherwise, and I don't see what context you mention in SNS and Bogoljub Karic. As for what was done during the elections and what was called, I know by traveling with President Tomislav Nikolic from Belgrade to Leskovac, no pillar on the road was glued to ugly names. Thank you. Mr. Dulic is a great man and he can defend himself. I think this debate is a waste of time. If you need an ad, we'll call a press conference.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3001	The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3002	It refers to Article 106(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I welcome all the changes for the better, and this time I notice a change for the better of a distinguished colleague. I saw this change in relation to the media, because until May 6th, until she participated in a media campaign in Tomislav Nikolic's and SNS's link, she did not mind. Now he's right, that lynch is not supposed to be run, it's not to be run, and that's why I support this civilizational step by our colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3003	The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I received a remark that I should have protected the MPs from the inscriptions in the media. Now I'm asking a question, which is logically imposed, who are actually media owners? Who were the media owners who conducted a media link against members of the opposition at the time, notably Aleksandr Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic, as representatives of the largest political party? Who are these people? Since ownership of the media, except for those two very suspicious ones, related to "Politics" and "News", which I hope soon the competent state authorities will inform us. Except in those two media outlets, I didn't notice that there was a change in ownership in other media. In the media that are obviously in the hands of two warring DS currents, then one dam, and the other attack. They just can't agree whether it's causing any damage, whether I have to defend against one newspaper, and I have to protect from another, or if I have to support one, and I'm defending the third. I really don't want to get into how it happens in the DS, and I don't really care. I'm interested in determining who the media owners are, because once we know who the media owners are, we'll be able to know why some signs go, why others don't go, and who the people behind them are, who the people who control the media are. I want to ask a question for the daily press. I'm interested in who owns the press daily newspaper, which is also very rudely mixed and very often in court proceedings, which wants to show whether someone is guilty or not, who wants to influence public opinion, the prosecution and the judiciary? Is that Dragan Gilas and Miroslav Miskovic? What kind of compound is that, if that's true, between politics and tycoon? Can we thus allow Serbia to collapse further? That's what I want to know, and that's why I don't think we should get involved, but that's what other organs are supposed to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3006	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an authorised rapporteur in front of the SNS parliamentary group, I would like to return the subject to the frameworks of the Rules of Procedure. In this context, I would like first to inform the public, and to deny some previous speakers, Oliver Dulic called for immunity. The fact that he later spoke in press conferences as he denied immunity, that he spoke in certain interviews, obviously newspapers that he wanted to publish, that it was not a media blockade, it was one, but Oliver Dulic called for immunity and it was recorded in the official notice of the Ministry of the Interior, No. 1520/12 – 20 since 6 October 2012. Let's end this discussion, let's not waste the time of this National Assembly, because I've heard more than once - Oliver Dulic has called for immunity. That's what the procedure says. As far as media records go, I'm always like a lawyer in the first place, but also as an SNS MP terrified when it comes to criminal proceedings in the media. I know what it looks like to be a victim of a media link, I experienced two and a half years ago just from those who today advocate fair journalism, for a fair trial. I also experienced in professional and political life that many people were guilty, so I was guilty in the media before the verdict was passed. Just because I know how awkward it is, I'm going to fight in person, and I believe we all agree, it's also in the SNS programme, for fair trials and fair journalism. I will also remind you that the oil on the fire of media reports on this issue has just been given by Oliver Dulic. A little, a little bit of a press conference. A little bit, he was a little bit of an investigation, just like his lawyers. They were very often presenting data that apparently It's not a replica. I'm an authorized promoter. [[President: Replication time is up, Mr. Cvian.]] (Chairman: Then fine.) So, in one word, Oliver Dulic is... The Democratic Party's emissaries are insolent. It's not a replica, I can talk. Is there a problem? Read the Rules of Procedure. It's not my fault I got my word and now let me finish, so I'll be happy to let you all go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3007	Since I gave you my word thinking it was a replica of Mrs. Jerkov's exposure, I beg you not to abuse us now. The word has been made by MP Ljuban Panic after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have the advantage, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3008	Reporting under Article 107(1). Mr Stefanovic, who is Ana Stefanovic, who was held in the APR as the owner of the daily "Justice"? What kind of hack are you talking about about Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic, when you ask a perfectly logical question about where Tomislav Nikolic was when he took his exams?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3009	Mr. Panic, I give you a warning. When I tell you, Mr. Panic, look at me. You've reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, instead of explaining Article 107(1), you've started a whole other story. Please continue to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3010	Dear Chairman, I would like to say that Mr Stefanovic, who is the president of this National Assembly, has injured the dignity of the National Assembly, including you and me as MPs, by doing the same thing you are now warning me about. He talked about some things that weren't the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, if you are the chair of this session, I ask that the same rules apply to all. Can I continue now, so we don't give me another warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3011	Mr. Stefanovic was replicating the presentation of the previous speaker, not speaking as president of the assembly at that time. The word is Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic. I'm sorry that only mentioning members of my family should serve as defense against serious charges. My family didn't participate in corruption and crime. All I'm asking is to determine who is, who are today's media owners, who are the people who are participating today in creating a media picture of Serbia, who convince us that the previous government, the wonderful, great, led by the Democratic Party, left honey and milk. She left us a 2.2 billion-euro debt in the budget deficit. She left us chaos, destroyed Serbia. Today, the media is talking about how this government is to blame for everything and everything, just for trying to fix the situation. One of the things we're not going to do is fight corruption and crime, whatever is said here and elsewhere. Whatever you say and whoever else in Serbia, I know you're in a lot of pain by the name of Alexander Vukic, I know it's very annoying for you, but he's a man who won't stop trying to figure it out until the last man who participated in the corruption processes in Serbia is punished by law, and that's how we'll do it. Don't worry, we're not easy people to give up, we're gonna get this fight to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3014	The Honorable Chairman, what I assumed happened, unfortunately, that this would turn into something other than an immunity conversation. It's sad if the president of parliament can't hold back from going into political debate and still spreading some kind of fear -- everyone's guilty somewhere, we'll clear up the thieves, we're finally the honest one who'll arrange this corrupt world. That's one innovation, I can say, because since there's a right there's also an assumption of innocence. It is an element of every legal process, without it there is no justice. If someone wants to twist it, to make an inversion, so they're all guilty, the whole party, the other parties, they're all thieves, only the one the court declares innocent or possibly government abolizes. Since the government is now Abolishing criminals with an incredible explanation that there is not enough space, I assume that this space that is being released will be for political opponents. In order for someone to fight corruption, it must come from its ranks. Today, many governments are using the alleged fight against corruption by arresting exclusively political opponents. As long as you don't start arresting your people, you won't convince anyone that this is some decent fight for Serbia's cleansing, liberation, etc. This discussion you've been having about immunity, it's important for one other thing. What is immunity? Everyone was making fun of him here -- it's not gonna be some den where he'll be hiding, etc. Immunity exists so that there wouldn't be a heifer of the ruling class to declassify, arrest, remove the opposition. Therefore, immunity has been established so that people in this congregation are not persecuted because of their views, and that is the key issue. Anyone who allegedly committed a crime or was charged with it must be available to the authorities. Dulic did it. While we're talking here, he's probably talking to the cops. We're having a completely pointless conversation here. We can't ignore it because it'll come back to everyone. Oliver Dulic is innocent. That's what I'm supposed to say, not just me, but every MP, until the moment the court finds him guilty. That's where we're supposed to go, if we go on a campaign, everybody's guilty until they prove otherwise, we're slipping into a dangerous regime and I don't want this country to experience it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3015	Thank you. I'd like to ask the MPs who were reported to report again because there was a full list and I had here advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3016	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that in every discussion there should be some kind of tactics, it's obvious that this is where the DS wants to represent itself as a victim. But let me tell you, this isn't the first session to discuss one immunity. While you were in power, you took out people's immunity, in public debates, for example. Branislav Ivkovic and it was then a political process. (President: Mr. Arsic, you've advertised the Rules of Procedure, please say by which member. I'm advertising the Rules of Procedure because the MP who spoke before me mentions that first we should start arresting our own... (President: Which member of the Rules of Procedure do you advertise? The MPs are obliged to address one another with respect, 103, 104. 105th member of whatever you want. Let's clear up now and something about the Institute of Immunity. You know, when we discuss immunity, separate more than once public authority and abuse of official position from public authority. It's not the same. You've been writing criminal charges to some former ministers, and they've been prosecuted and released for not spending their resources on lunches and dinners, but buying football clubs uniforms and swimsuits to young people or pioneers, I don't know how. So that's what you've even been doing. Your colleagues, current MPs, then the ministers wrote them criminal charges. Now we're discussing that a whole assembly of MPs should go first to arrest their own, and who? Well, the authorities are only 70 to 80 days... (Chairman: Mr. Arsic, please remain in violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sticking to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3017	The word is of Alexander Jerkov, the messenger of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3018	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, I don't know how you run this session, obviously the way you run the Finance Committee's sessions, which is to say to the elected MPs in some arbitrary order and probably according to personal sympathies, or I don't know what this is about. I checked in 20 minutes ago to talk. You gave the word to a lot of people after me, but it doesn't matter. Several previous speakers mentioned me and specifically asked direct questions. If we go from running a media link against certain people in this country, some of them being DS or LSV, some of them being SNS and its coalition partners. The difference between Oliver Dulic, Nenad Canka on one side and Bogoljub Karic on the other side, and against all was a media lynch, is that Nenad Canak and Oliver Dulic are ready to answer before the courts of this country for what they are charged with doing, and Bogoljub Karic fled the country. Not to mention that you can talk about who organized the media link against Bogoljub Karic and that you should not set yourself up, Mr Karic, much further than the ranks of his current coalition, I think the answer lies in those ranks. On account of what Mr Babic said, if the media link that I led in the campaign against Tomislav Nikolic, that I asked where the president of the Republic of Serbia, at which college he graduated, is still on the media line because I think the truth about it must be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3019	The word is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Rule 108. I believe that if I did not make a mistake by the name of Ljuban Panic, there is not enough political experience, if you allow me, although I do not have the right to direct address, I have made a small education and reminded him that these people and this political party that mentioned the family of Mr. Neboja Stefanovic, who mentioned all our families, remained fat under the censorship. Are these the values represented by our young colleague? Do they want to end up under the census? If those are the values they represent and want, let them continue. On the other hand, what burned my ears, which is that the president of parliament should not be around to participate in the debate. Parliament's president is the first among the equal and that kind of discrimination I cannot accept, except that the president of parliament, which Mr Stefanovic does all these months, would show one of the highest doses of tolerance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3021	Thank you. The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic. I had the right to a replica, Mr. Micunovic's exposure. I just wanted to say one thing about the infuriation of fear. No one in this National Assembly, especially me, is giving any fear and why anyone would be afraid. I don't see that any honest man who isn't in any crime has any reason to fear in this country. I am sure that those who have been cut into crime and those whose hands have been deep in the pockets of Serbian citizens today are afraid. They weren't afraid until a few months ago, but they're afraid today because they see they won't be privileged to process. You could have done that in all these hearings and arrests. There won't be any pardons in this country for those who've lashed out in corruption and crime. It's not for us to decide, I'm telling you the 20th time today, and we're not doing it here, we're not thinking about it. But let me tell you, for the sake of the prosecution the least elected by the SNS, that's what the courts and prosecutors chosen by the previous majority and the previous president do. The Serbian Progressive Party is not and has no role. These people today write indictments, these people today are looking for responsibility amongst others, and they have serious political support to endure and not to make a selection. That's where we support them. I don't mind if I ever find out that anyone from my party has committed some kind of crime and that it fits, I absolutely support it. But don't be under God's protection, to God's democracy or some media link to prevent the idea of telling the truth in Serbia. What's the truth? Let the courts decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3024	The chairman, I really do beg you, I think you're holding a great responsibility for the course of this session and the fact that this session slowly ceases to be what it should be. So, you can't call on a member of 106 and claim that he's hurt, you have to know that as chairman you ask the assistant secretary to give you, to show you whether or not someone can call on a member of 106 where he says that the president of the National Assembly is making warnings and punishment. So you can't hurt that member unless you're asking to punish someone, and you didn't do it. So, I ask you to show the respect of the National Assembly first and foremost the chairman and president. Our interest today is not, and I am surprised why MPs of the ruling majority appear to this extent and are calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because that is why they are transferring you to violate the Rules of Procedure and not to hold a session properly. So it is completely incomprehensible, it is clear why we point to this because you have since the beginning of this session preceded by the session of the Administrative Committee, so those in charge have violated the Rules of Procedure and have not followed the rules laid down by the Rules of Procedure. Our interest is that this session ends in a decent manner today, that no one here condemns anyone but that we, as responsible men, agree and all together want to establish the truth in the competent institutions both Oliver Dulic and everyone else. We don't want to obstruct the work of the National Assembly when it comes to this subject. We just want to warn you that the way you work is violence that you abuse and the National Assembly and many other institutions, and that is neither justice nor legal order. That's what I'm trying to point out, and otherwise, we want this session to end with a vote, because Oliver Dulic wants to tell the judicial authorities what he has and is responsible for everything he has to answer for.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3025	For the sake of your objection to Rule 106, I will read it so that there is no confusion, and you have said that no objection can be made to Article 106, and it reads: "The speaker can only speak about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted, no one can interrupt the speaker or warn him except the President of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for by this Rules of Procedure. During the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw, or interfere with the speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech." So, this member of the Rules of Procedure can be advertised, which is done, and I don't know why you've had any objections. The next speaker is Ljuban Panic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3026	Thank you, fellow Grandmother. I didn't say who Mrs. Stefanovic was, I didn't know that, I searched the APR and saw that she owned a daily list. This is a replica. Thank you, Mr Babic, for telling me and the citizens of Serbia that the wife of a senior SNS official is the owner of a daily list. As for the truth of the former regime and other stories, you are sitting with half of that former regime in the government, you were here making prison suits for Mladjan Dinkic, you are Mr. Ivica Dacic, the prime minister whose government you are supporting, calling for to explain the involvement in the affair of the "Coffer", you are your activists we met with by sticking posters and sharing propaganda material, saying that these same billboards of the same Ivica Dacic are being modest and that they are asking questions on them – where is this case? You are, in one word, dishonest. You used the situation here today when the fall session begins that there will be guards here to intonate the anthem, to make a farce out of the whole fight against corruption. That's what you need, not because you're fighting corruption now, but because you need an alibi for one policy that you started to run. You will not be saved by a media hack, you can arrest us all, what you will, listen to me well, what you will fail to do is jobs you can't open, is a Europe you won't know how to get close to this country, are shortages, a weak dinar, the lives of citizens, you promised people a better life, and you haven't changed anything. First, you ran a 20-year "Greater Serbia" project, which was the editor of these newspapers, and today... (President: Time. Today you will be equally unsuccessful when you are Europeans, the only thing left to you will be the same, with fear and a link you will try to stay in power and it will not work today either.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3027	The word is Mr. Momir Stojanović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3028	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully agree with Mrs. Kolundji's proposal, my predecessor's injury did not stick to the subject, but he was talking about how he was terrified, and I would like to support Mrs. Kolundji's proposal that we finally return to the subject and vote, because all of my predecessors from the DS have advocated respect for the principle of innocence. I fully agree, but your Mr. Dulic, at least after a statement, that is, by the act we received from the prosecutor for organised crime, has called for his parliamentary immunity. Then what's the problem, ladies and gentlemen, let's take that immunity down to prove our innocence, believe that in front of the SNS MPs' club, he also has full support and full solidarity that he's innocent, until otherwise proven until the competent authorities prove it. What makes me here right now, I don't need you from the DS MPs' club to show so much solidarity towards Mr Dulic, there's full solidarity between us and the SNSI parliamentary groups we want to remove his immunity today, that the man in front of the prosecution and the courts in charge prove whether he's guilty or not. I'm not sure of his innocence, since when the Internal Affairs Authority called for a conversation, he called for his parliamentary immunity. Why did he call so bravely for his parliamentary immunity, if he's sure he's innocent? What are we talking about here? You honor us here, you want to show that the fight against organised crime and corruption, which I hope you support, is that it has turned into a fight against political insinuation. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume you are the last of the DS to warn us about this, and all you can think about is "Sabbe" action, when a legitimate investigation into the background of the late prime minister's murder was turned into the arrest of political insinuators and you're not going to honor us now?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3029	Next reported is Mr. Srdjan Mikovic, and on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3030	103, 106 and 109. Why? First, I don't think you can have two arches to the MPs no matter where they sit. You gave Mr. Ljuban Panic a warning, not a warning, but a warning, because, in the context of your discussion about pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he went off topic. You have a situation where another MP, called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, regardless of what is now being done in this new announcement by Mr Ljuban Panic, has not been able to replicate, has been unfounded that you have committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have not given a warning, nor have you given a warning to another MP. Let's make the same criterion for everyone, because if we say it in Article 109. - the warning is made to the MP who, despite the warning of the President of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. So, Mr. Panic when he got the warning, and I sincerely hope it was a warning, and it was incorrectly said to be a warning. If that's the case, I'd take it, and if it's going to be a warning, let's listen to the whole stenogram, and then the same archaic to everyone, and then they're warning everyone in order, and let's see what happens. Let's stick to the principle, if that's a warning, and wrongly said, as a warning, okay, it happens to all of us, and if it's a warning, then I insist on doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3031	Just to say, if you remember, while Mr Panic was speaking, I tried to warn him several times, I invited him to stop and return to the topic, but he kept talking. In accordance with Article 109 of the last indent, I told him a warning. So I really think I treat all MPs equally. Here you go, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3032	Since I am dissatisfied with the answer to the interpretation, the fact is that you as chairman can at any moment take away the word from the chair to everyone and say it, not for one moment, no matter what the sign, I have no data, or we can listen to the stenogram, there is no moment that you interrupted his microphone. You could've cut the microphone, warned him. At the first stop, you gave the warning, and before that, you did not give the warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3033	So, once again, if you allow me, I will remind you of Article 109 of the last indent, when notice is given to the MPs when other proceedings violate the order of the session, the session is treated contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. So, in the voting day, do you want to make a statement about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, that's my question?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3034	I want to vote in the day, but I will also be very interested in coming to the meeting of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs when it is decided on the punishment of Mr. MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3035	I heard yours, so in the voting day, we'll be pleading on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next word has Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3036	President i.e. Chairman, I'm advertising the breach of Rules 101, 103. Please simply consult the deputy secretary and you, and while the chairman was President Nebojsa Stefanovic, we had the same situation and please read the Rules of Procedure. There is only an opportunity to point to a breach of the procedure done by the chairman of the Assembly. So all of this we've heard from SNS is addressed to your account. Since we will plead on this in the voting day, I expect the SNS will vote for you to hurt the Rules of Procedure. We'll support them in that, because you're hurting this Rules of Procedure from minute to minute, and please stop doing that. No one can speak personally to any MPs or among MPs through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Veroljub Arsic can't explain to us whether it was this or that through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So I can only address you for the injury you've done directly. In order not to be able to say it by heart, Article 103 of Section 1 says - The MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way and is directly after the injury done. So, you're the one who's running this session, so please return this session to the debate on the agenda point, because this absolutely looks like everything, just a session of the Assembly doesn't look like, and no one's talking about what's the subject of today's debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3037	I thank Mr. Konstantinovic for your advice, I'll take it. We're moving on to the agenda. The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3038	The Honorable Chairman, you've missed again, you've injured Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, by not warning, I mean, Colonel Stojanovic when he spoke the same way about the "Sabbe" action as he did three months ago. I expected Mr Stojanovic to understand in these three months where he is now working, that this is no longer a service but a National Assembly, and that he must respect the dignity of both these congregations and the independence of the Serbian judiciary. No state body, the court at least, has found that any action in the "Sabbe" campaign in 2003 was a political lynch and political persecution. Mr. Stojanovic, sorry about, I suppose, Mr. Tomic's fate can be resolved elsewhere in a different way. There's really no need to do that in this place. Why is this dangerous? At this point, another criminal procedure is under way, which is directly related to the events that preceded the year 2003, for the crime - armed insurrection. What Mr. Stojanovic is doing in this assembly, I see as a pressure on the judiciary to conduct the procedure. That is why I ask you to react next time, if Mr Stojanovic continues to apply this way to the decisions of the state authorities and to warn him.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3039	Thank you. Mr. Homen's word is according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3040	Thank you. I'd like to point to a violation of article 106. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I don't think I can say that it applies to one or more MPs, whose injury you should have pointed out, because there's hardly anyone around here holding the agenda, and I think that's something you need to sanction. We are here in a situation where colleagues from the ruling coalition honor us that we are against abolishing immunity, and that Oliver Dulic has called for immunity. Please don't use this part of the congregation first, and the truth is completely different. Neither Oliver Dulic calls for immunity, nor are we as a MP group of DS against the abolition of immunity. What's the point and what the citizens need to know, is that yesterday he was ready to go to the police to give a written statement that he denied immunity. We sit here, advertise the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, spend taxpayers' money without need. I'm asking, what are we doing today? Does this congregation have something smarter to discuss and talk about something that we all agree on, or is this just for the purpose of further media satanicizing the DS? So I ask you to move on to the agenda, so this point ends, because it really loses all meaning. We understand what the message of the ruling coalition was, I repeat, immunity as such, Oliver Dulic gave it up himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3041	Please return to the agenda topic and do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3042	Here I am, of course, going back to the agenda, trying an hour and a half ago to do it. So let's look at some things again and do it again, because it obviously didn't happen to the public and some MPs, but Oliver Dulic has been called for immunity, and I will repeat again, it stands in the official note of the RS MUP, number 1520/12-20 since 6 October 2012. Later at press conferences and so forth, something else claimed it was a different story, but Oliver Dulic called for immunity. Of course, SNS, and I as her member, but at the same time as a lawyer, we fully support the idea that no one is guilty until proven otherwise. We fully support the idea that everyone has the right to defend themselves. I'm really happy that yesterday when I watched television videos in front of the court, I saw that Mr. Dulic gathered a really, really, very good-quality lawyer team, I think he's headed with a respected lawyer, Ivan Sebek. That's good news for me, I'm glad, and I want to point out that we fully support his right to defend the Constitution guaranteed. We don't have a problem with him defending himself, we're not going to attack him or his lawyers in any way, which was once three or four months ago the most normal thing, that those in the defense are calling themselves criminals. We really want every way to take this trial, this process that will obviously go from the stage of the investigation to some further stages, to be conducted in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the law. Media, I just said it, in a way, the oil on the fire was poured and Oliver Dulic himself made statements in the media. To a large extent, I recognize, as a professional, that some of the data reported in the media was definitely delivered by a defense attorney. I see that as a professional, and I think many lawyers here will agree, of course not to use this procedure, and the SNS therefore fully supports us going back to the agenda point, so that we simply remove immunity if necessary by order of the prosecution, by order of independent judicial and prosecutorial authorities, Mr Oliver Dulic. As for the very documentation that the team has been delivered to us, I think it is, and I believe that it will agree, especially fellow lawyers, very solidly written, very reasonedly, to quote my colleague, Mikovic, so intimately, I would not be so sure on the basis of this document, but I am now saying this as a lawyer, that Mr Dulic may be released. I'd say if I were his lawyer, he'd suggest more to take witness status as an associate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3043	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3044	This debate takes a long time. She's obviously had a variety of other tendencies. One thing here seems pretty well proven to me. First, the Committee's meeting is irregularly organised, without a call from whoever it is, without all the members present, etc., which casts a shadow on the whole process of determining or identifying the committee itself. That's one fact. The other fact is the material itself. This is where I heard from my speaker. I can conclude on the basis of what's here and on the basis of Article 359, which I've quoted, that there can be no valid document that requires the removal of immunity without defining which of the three positions. These three positions provide for different time sentences, the first of which has not been passed for five years, which means that they are not subject to the automatic taking of immunity. So these are all the facts that the Committee needed to consider, but I hope that lawyers and the court will decide. This question would be declassified. Dulic wanted to get a few minutes so he could say that in the Assembly what he had to say. I think he's made a lot of arguments about the whole case that's been incriminating here, and where there's something that's already been said by the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the government said. The government responded to the Commission for the determination of corruption. The act was signed by the current prime minister, the then vice president. Now this is some new evidence and renewal, and when you look at what it's about, it's hardly possible to assume some other form of interpretation of what's usually called abuse of position. But we leave that to the court now. He immediately said he wouldn't call for immunity. That's what he said today. We supported him in that. He was going to the D.A.'s office or the police on Saturday. They've already heard him out there and released two associates. They told him to come Monday and he went there today. We had one final fact. We support him in that, since a man is innocent, he proves it in court. When he proves it in court, I think it'll be okay. We've heard all kinds of stories here about threats, no threats, etc. As soon as one thing is said in general she is a threat. In the French Revolution, when Robesper decided to liquidate his opponents, he marked one each time to get the support of the others. The first time he said -- there's in this comment by the traitors of the Republic, but their names I'll tell you tomorrow, they've united to stop him from doing it tomorrow. There can't be any fuss that there's a terrible corruption. No one will admit what process has been completed or started seriously, which is the result of this campaign that lasts for two months and disturbs the entire public, family, people based on writing a sypophonic press, which by order can write whatever they want. It's an unhealthy atmosphere at a time when we have a lot of state problems. It is now necessary to see such a softly voted VAT increase, which has caused, what an eruption of prices, how much the standard of citizens has affected. That's one big problem, then the problem of budgeting, financial resources. That's a huge problem. The third is a talk about Kosovo with very public demands, which is an additional problem. In the whole story it moves with a drawn sword – we will now clean up all possible corruption, etc. Now, it has to look suspicious to everyone. How come half of the former government, not to be misunderstood by my colleagues, I don't think I'm accusing any of them, they're all honest, all the ministers, like everyone from the previous government, are also fair, only where the blow from the press or these threats goes, it goes to one part of that government that didn't enter the government right now. Anyone who looks at it on the side looks like a simple reckoning. We see it in other countries. I don't want to repeat these countries, so I don't cause an international scandal, you read the paper and you see it. Evidence that they are fighting corruption proves by arresting their political opponents. It's not hard to always run a process, so who knows what's going to turn out in the end, and when after a year, two or five turns out to be not guilty, they've all forgotten it. So, inconclusive is what we do. It creates an unhealthy climate. Those who spoke of consensus, it is important for us to solve common matters, etc., no, some kind of civil war within the Assembly was introduced here, so to speak. Then what's supposed to exist on the other side? As far as DS is concerned, we just wanted to say that our colleague went voluntarily to give a statement. We believe in his innocence, to seek that way, and everything that happens here, goes according to procedure. Here we have heard speakers say – well, what we hold to this Rules of Procedure as a drunk record, we have had the opportunity to hear it a long time ago, this Rules of Procedure is no good, we do not have to follow it, and one other part, which has no idea what it says in the Rules of Procedure, has caused a whole storm of procedural reporting for the word that the procedure and the apparitions around the Rules of Procedure have been violated. Later, the ruling majority accepted it. It was well noticed by counterpart Konstantinovic, in the end it would be brought down to the chairman, who was greatly in violation of the Rules of Procedure, and that both were called upon to do so. I said a few words here, so the president's replicated me. I don't know if he's here. I can say the following -- it is not good for Parliament's president to participate in this kind of debate, what happens to the party, whether it regulates those lists one party or the other, what there is, to enter that kind of political dispute. The president of the assembly is the president of all MPs and should try, as long as he can, to treat them equally and not to interfere in direct disputes. I guess one party that has so many MPs must have someone else who's going to answer for the replicas and stand up against it, too. All that seems to be now is not good at running the congregation. We have a lot of problems. Whether or not the Assembly has not managed yet, but it has already been more than two months and it would have to be done. It's like someone's illiterate. There's a session on the phone, pick up something on the phone with some answering machine, and if she'll let you know. There are computers, five sentences are dictated and the courier divides everyone. In what way do we do primitive work in this congregation? As far as we're concerned, we have nothing to say to these. As far as immunity is concerned, he didn't call on him, although at that first moment, he called it off twice. For us, that story is over, because he's innocent. I hope that will be determined by the authorities responsible for that. In the end, we cannot fight for the rule of law, and constantly take over into the hands of clubs that do not belong to us. I cannot allow government members, vice-presidents or in parliament, anyone, to open charges and to guess what will happen to them, to which party, etc. I guess that's what certain judicial authorities are responsible for. That's what this is about. Or we'll be able to get as close as we can to some mild ideal of rule of law where we stick to rules, uphold laws, respect for innocence. One more thing, citizens' respect. I didn't want to remind you of that, the president who's not here right now. Mr. Dulic was the president of this House, and it was a good president, very tolerated. We don't have the right to anyone, especially anyone who was your president of this House, no privilege whatsoever, but at least so much that they don't have to drag him through the mud whoever they want and whatever newspaper they want. So we have to make sure that we respect each other if we want the world to respect us and respect us. That's my appeal. You do whatever you want. I ran two congregations here. I know how to do it. I've never done this kind of intolerance. I hope this isn't going to be a case right now. How many democracies there are - how many ruling majority allow the opposition. That is the measure, therefore, of the opposition's freedom, even its privileges in parliament in some detail, are the measure of democracy of one assembly and one government. Calling on most of the time, we have most of it and we can do everything with most of it, it leads to dictatorship, it leads to very dangerous regimes. I wouldn't want to wake up in such a regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3045	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3046	It's clear that this topic goes way beyond what it's supposed to be, which is to respond to the prosecutor's request and I have to talk about this as two separate subjects. One topic is a specific case, and it seems to me that absolutely no one has a dilemma about what needs to be done. Immunity as an idea of protection doesn't serve to avoid a criminal process and I think everyone agrees on it. The prosecutor asked the Serbian Parliament or applied for the removal of immunity, the Administrative Committee made the decision required by the Assembly in the way it did. As far as we're concerned, there goes every dilemma, we'll vote to lift immunity. I also see that the person to whom this request applies has in some way given up and indirectly allowed all of us to unanimously declare such a decision. It's just part of this question and when we talk about it, about a specific case, there are no more or less dilemmas there. The dilemmas are opening up about the following thing and I agree with Professor Micunovic, that this is a matter of fundamental importance to this country. That's, is there a case that might be true or not, you professor say he's innocent, I don't know, and I don't care at the end of the line, but is this case used for political dealings with political inexperiences? We can't ask an answer to a question just from this session, although it's already clear enough. Look at the ladies and gentlemen list of registered speakers, two parties, one for one against. It's a political conflict. There are many parties in this parliament, out of the registered speakers only two, the ruling SNS for, the opposition DS against. It is very clear that it is a political conflict. That's where we get the essential problem. The question is how to distinguish something called fighting corruption, from what is called political rematchism and the fight against political insinuation. I must say, in that sense, I have no optimism about the ruling majority. We have already discussed this at several committee sessions, meeting our colleagues from the European Parliament, and this impression is growing every day. So, as far as we're concerned, we don't have a dilemma that the ruling majority, using media, using words like the former regime at all, since before the pre-election campaign one tool, which I don't think can do any good to this country, and therefore our need is to at least at this political level, to oppose this kind of behavior. Let Oliver Dulic go, I agree that parliament should pay special attention to monitoring and overseeing the case, given that it is a MP, a former minister and former head of parliament. Using our legal options, we also ask the Serbian Parliament to be in the manner that the law allows, throughout the whole case, and to inform lawmakers through its legal capabilities. This kind of campaign, not against him but against him, I would say political ideas, which, to a greater or less extent, represented by DS, is not appropriate and does not mean fighting corruption. The fight against corruption could get support if the cases were to end, if there were a whole series of cases convicted by judicial verdicts and we could say that the fight was successful or not. The fact that a loud attack on someone on the other side of the political scene doesn't convince us, that was our conflict with the past government, the fight against corruption, only a small part is the work of the police or the Ministry of the Interior, much greater work and the removal of systemic solutions, which make this country a suitable ground for corruption. Not our country, nor our citizens, are they more corrupt than any other citizen in the world, but our system and political and legal is such that such things are not only tolerated but promoted here. If there's a way for the city administration to refuse for some reason to issue a building permit, if there's a legal way for someone else to give regardless of the building permit, it's a gentleman's place for corruption. You didn't come as the ruling majority and say these and these points of the law allowed corruption to exist, but you said -- the police found that this and that thief, or the prosecution, or in the worst cases his political opponents found it. That's no argument for us. Let me tell you, as someone who has nothing to do with it, we don't care about them, we don't care about anyone you accuse and do what you want. But make sure that every move you make either builds democracy in this country or degrades it. The moves on this case and everything that followed this case are breaking down democracy in this country. If this is how you deal with the first case, and you announce that there are 500 or 50 or 100 more, we don't have to be political geniuses to figure out which way it's going. Let me be clear, he arrested both Slobodan Milosevic and former and then ministers, if I'm not mistaken. He found millions in some backyards, right? Was there less corruption in this country? Of course not, because everything else was made to accelerate and promote corruption. Since there is no serious debate on the subject, but there are only assessments of political opponents about each other, since it is still a session today, without the intention of insulting Mr. Dulic, who is part of the ruling majority's opponent, since it is not about anyone who poses any danger to this country today, let us interpret this part and as a certain kind of political rematchism. Your debates have shown it and I understand that your sense of understanding, you feel that you are being led against by media hacks and campaigns, and you keep saying that, among other things, you and the tops of your party. But the awareness that this must not be your motive in this age must prevail with you or this country will become a dictatorial society and today must be said openly. If you feel that you've been victims, it doesn't give you the right to do the same thing to someone else and to take care of it, I ask you and I warn you as someone who's not on either side, take care when you're talking. That kind of emotion isn't necessary, and if it does, I told you in which direction it leads. It is not realistic to destroy other political ideas in Serbia and you are neither the first nor the last in the world to think that they can. I'm telling you, that's not possible. The fact that you disagree with someone should not be a reason for such flat-rate and general evaluations that show that it is not a specific case, but rather a struggle with something that existed before, and behind it is a political idea. When we say - the fight against corruption, to believe in it, we need to see that a legal system is being built in this country, that is the first step. We need to see that the possibility of personal arbitration is lifted, but that there are rules, rules that have been respected over and over again for years, and they are known to everyone. We must see that when a law is passed in a case that is close to all of us, it must come to the congregation in time, public debate must pass, arguments must be heard for all who discuss it and ultimately must be adopted. You have failed to comply with any law that you have proposed to this day. It has nothing to do with who has the majority or who has the minority. If it's not done, then there's a reason why it's not done. The reason is usually to hide something. When he's hiding, it means he's not okay. You don't have to deal with thinking you can fool all people. Your fight against corruption and this, if we're well aware of a specific case, and yet I'm telling you, we have no dilemma, no moral, no human, no political. The D.A.'s filed a request for an end to immunity. We'll vote for it. There's no dilemma about it. The dilemma arises about it, if we're well aware of it, I'm not sure, even from those announcements we see in the papers, that we're not going that far, I'm not sure it's a finished case. Take care of the consequences both for this Parliament and for us and for this country, take care of the consequences of this judicial process. Don't think that's too far ahead of us. Think about every outcome. I'm not telling you this because of what we need to do today, it's clear to you and it's clear to you that everyone in this room will vote for it, but make sure when you talk about what the consequences are or what the consequences will be in a year, two or five, when this case ends and what we're going to tell each other and what this country will be until then. As far as the media link is concerned, it absolutely existed. Who today says he didn't recognize it in the last three, four weeks or two months, he's just being dishonest. On the other hand, I have to say, it's not the first media lynch in this country. The gentleman reminded you of some, and I will remind you of Jajic, I will remind you of the hysteria that is constantly exposed to Cedomir Jovanovic, the president of our party, from being a drug addict, a criminal, that he is low, tall, small, big, smart, stupid. Depending on who changes in power, each time is the second reason – he betrayed, he did not betray, sell, buy, everything is a topic. So, don't act crazy. In order for this to not happen, a consensus is needed on the minimum interest of this society, and the debate that exists today shows that this consensus does not exist. No matter what we do today, we will end Oliver Dulic's immunity, this country will not be a country with less corruption because of it, and this country will not be a better place to live tomorrow than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3047	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would still like to say that in some future discussions we do not discuss that MPs are conducting some sort of procedure against persons suspected of corruption. Let's get this straight first. Neither are we in charge, nor are we in possession of enough information, nor do we know that we are doing it, perhaps some of us because they were finishing those schools, but most of us don't. Be assured that no one from SNS in advance condemns a colleague of Dulic's. We don't have a mandate for this, and I'd like to ask that story to be over. When it comes to a media campaign, you need to have media support first. Most media are in control of DS today, back in the days when she was in power. Even the party president admitted it to you, the present. Don't accuse us of that. When it comes to the judicial system and the systemic fight against corruption, say – which judge have we replaced, which prosecutor have we replaced? We agree, if we want to fight corruption, the holders of judicial and prosecutorial functions must have continuity and no one has been removed. The issue of rematchism, look out, Oliver Dulic was the president of the assembly, he was a minister in the government, he wasn't exactly the kind of, say, a D.S. feather that attacked his political opponents... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... so that he would be the victim of political rematchism. All you're saying is, I'd just like to say once again, this is a matter for the D.A.'s office, and it's about an action that requires some documentation, where there's no fitting of evidence, as in some other proceedings with witness statements that don't exist or weren't there.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3049	Thank you. The word is Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3050	Replica, since we obviously didn't understand each other. Maybe it's not even realistic to get along, but it's not a subject. Whoever wanted to understand will understand. I'll try to be a little clearer. The fight against corruption would mean that you have prevented someone who does this today, and this, if it ends up at the expense of Oliver Dulic, will be a punishment for what he did four or five months ago, stopped doing what he lost in the election. This does not mean that you do not need as the ruling majority, in the broadest sense, not as MPs, to banish this thing to the end, but I am telling you – do not call it that name. As for the former regime, when you use such a word, it means that you want there to be a clear continuity and difference between you and them. To do that isn't enough just to say it. It takes two things. The first is that you don't do what they end up doing, what you're complaining about yourself, and that's those media campaigns. The other thing is - there should be two of the three parties of the former regime in your government, but it is necessary to make a radical change. If you expect us MPs or citizens to believe that in the former regime the only ones who were corrupt were DS members, you will admit that it is quite unserious, even as a request, and it is very unserious for this assembly. I have no intention of discussing this further. I said as far as the agenda is concerned, she's clear to us. I've made a political remark about the debate that's being held here, by saving my soul, I haven't helped much, but I've saved my soul. What you're doing today won't make this country any better.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3051	Thank you. Mr. Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3052	I can only inform my fellow MPs, and Serbian citizens, that if the competent state authorities find out that any official official of the current Government of the Republic of Serbia is involved in committing a crime of abuse of official position, they will have no protection of the SNS, on the one hand. On the other hand, if other members of the government do not insist on fighting corruption and organised crime, there will be no government either. We guarantee you that from the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3053	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the urgent need for the National Assembly to make a decision from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3054	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is important that, although it is one thing I would say to a procedural decision, we understand that it is not easy to make, but we also need to understand that this is a political arena where we can present political assessments of something. I think we need to respect certain facts, first of all, the fact that the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime has made a request to the National Assembly, the President, forwarded that request to the Administrative Committee, the Administrative Committee has made a proposal for a decision that we will decide here today, and it begins and ends this whole story, if we look at the formal legal aspect. If anyone wants to politicize this story, of course they have arguments and pro and vice versa. We can relate to the guilt or innocence of Mr. Dulic, but it won't help at all what I'm sure we've all been repeating here since this morning, which is that we're all likely to vote to end immunity. Mr. Dulic himself said that he had given up that immunity and that he was sincerely committed to establishing the full truth about what was personally burdened him. That's why I don't see any reason to have this long controversy at all, to call on members of the Rules of Procedure and waste of time that is precious, as the chairman here has said for a moment. I think it is also important to point out that the SPS advocates fighting organised crime and corruption. That's what she stood for in the previous government. We also need to know that there is independence of the judiciary, that we have worked on this all these years, once from the position of the government, sometimes from the position of the opposition, and that independence must not be questioned. It's just that it's not our manners and it's not our job. We also need to know that there is a fundamental principle of presummation of innocence – no one is guilty until it is proved in court and ruled. There's a lot of phenomena and a lot of criticism that's been said here, that we can answer or we don't have to. It was said here that the SPS was running a very important resort in the previous government, that it was incompetent and uninformed about something that was going on. I want to inform you that this action, in particular, was launched after the interest of the EU and the European Commission and was launched in March of the month when the SPS was in the government, that is correct, but it was also in the government. When you bring out some criticism, you must also have facts to fight with that argument. As for mentioning the crime of abuse of official position, unless I'm mistaken, the judicial reform led the DS in the earlier government, our then coalition partner. In many cases, the Venice Commission has criticised certain laws and legislation. A lot has been changed, a lot has been reformed, a lot has been done well, and some things may have been done in a bad way. They also talked about the need to end the crime. I don't know why the DS didn't launch an initiative full of four years to eliminate one such act. We were not against it, and we have no objection to it being abolished during the duration of this government, not only because the EU expects it from us, but because we consider it to be an overkilled crime that is burdened by many, and some of those who are burdened today are not in Serbia's state. If that were lifted, maybe they'd come back. It's a question of why and what was the motive for not ending such a thing in the previous period? As for some political persecutions, media manipulations and everything that's been going on, I don't want to go back far, but I just have to, not that everyone when they come into the position of the opposition is very nice and that they've never done anything in their life that they respect others. As far as we're concerned, I think there's very little you can respect us in this regard. We don't control the media, we don't control them. We were a victim of the media, like all of you, probably. Some people feel it today, some people felt it yesterday. I will remind you of one example of the Satanization of one of the DOS members after 2000, which is General Obradovic. Was he Satanized and practically his career was destroyed because he was headed by a anti-corruption team. Who did this? Probably all of you know that, so I don't remind you. As far as the media link is concerned, it's the manner in which the SPS honestly fights and we advocate that it doesn't happen to anyone, not even Oliver Dulic. It is true that it was the case in the previous period. It is true that we, or others, were the subject of this media link – someone more, someone less. We believe that the manner in which the indictment is filed, the carrying out of the evidence process, the processing, the making of judgments in the media does not contribute to the democratic values that we want to inherit. That is why it is very important that those who are responsible for the editorial policy of these media, also those who are woven into the ownership structure of these media, take care of what objective information means and what they want to achieve. It happened in the previous period, but it's no excuse that it's happening today. That's why we're SPS against it, and we'll always fight it. In order not to take up time, I really appeal that what is crystal clear, what I said at the beginning, after the request of the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, which was addressed to the President of the National Assembly, he forwarded it to the Administrative Committee, the decision and the proposal for a decision on the Administrative Board were made, and here it remains to be made clear that if you want to continue to politicise this topic, that it cannot be politicised because it is introduced into norm. We want to respect the principle of presummation of innocence, and we want to make a statement as soon as possible, because any new political conflict or any new controversy between those who are ready to participate in this morning will not contribute to Mr. Dulic, or the judiciary, or anyone who wants to demonstrate political power here and to fight some arguments that have nothing to do with what's on the agenda here. Therefore, the SPS will no longer report on this point, unless we are forced to and if the dignity of our party or our parliamentary group collapses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3055	Mr. Homen, tell me on what basis are you answering? On behalf of the MPs' group? (Freedan Homen: on behalf of the parliamentary group and on behalf of the Ministry of Justice. Unfortunately, you can't. Only the Chief or Deputy Chief, or the Authorised Proposer, may be represented to the MP. You can't even speak for the Justice Department. You can only have a replica as an MP or as president of a parliamentary group. Since I wasn't there, if you're personally mentioned by name and last name, you can. You didn't mention it yourself. MP Vladimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3056	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I feel very bad about this discussion today. I believe that I share a similar feeling as everyone in the O.R., in the sense that this is a painful and pointless discussion, a discussion that can't bring any political point to any of us, and that's why it's absolutely pointless to discuss in the way that we're discussing it. When I say this, I mean a truly collegiate and humane relationship to a colleague of Dulic who has a family who, I'm sure, survives the real drama all these weeks and maybe months. I'm personally against any form of media hack, and she's obviously present safely in one part of the media. All those who have been targeted by such a type of heist and treatment by the media know what it's like. I also want to cut short my discussion and say that we will help Mr. Dulic the most if we shorten this debate. We need to make a decision to enable the authorities, first of all, the judiciary, the state bodies in which we have to trust to conduct the procedure, while at the same time providing Mr. Dulic with a chance to defend himself in the process. I think the whole discussion so far is in no way contributing to Parliament's reputation and I believe that the citizens who are watching this today are completely disappointed. So I urge all of you to try if there is a discussion today that they are primarily about the subject and the direction of helping us here as colleagues and judicial authorities, but above all also Mr. Dulic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3057	Are any of the other bosses, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? Mr. Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3058	I'm just going to answer a few of the things we've heard in the discussion so far. First, let's get back to the agenda. The request that came to us from the D.A.'s office is perfectly legal. I believe my fellow lawyers will agree with this. The fact that it doesn't say which point, or the position of Article 359, is still early, so everything's fine. On the other hand, the EU has largely resented us when we were given candidate status at points 23 and 24, which is the fight against corruption and the situation in the judiciary, so here we are fighting for it today. As for the fact that someone said that there were personal attacks on Oliver Dulic coming from the SNS, I, as an authorised representative today, don't remember personally attacking Oliver Dulic in any way, even repeatedly repeating that I was very glad to see that he went with the lawyers to testify. I see it's one trial that will go in a normal and fair course. If anyone from the SNS Group said something ugly about Oliver Dulic, if it means anything to you, I'll make an apology. So, I think we have here a legally perfect request from the prosecution to lift immunity to which Oliver Dulic called himself. Oliver Dulic will certainly have a fair trial and it will all have the right to follow. To rely on what I have heard from some respected colleagues, which is – what will happen to some who are currently in power, why is there no investigation, if you have any evidence to vote against any minister who is currently a minister, if you have evidence, I will remind you that it is even a duty to hand over this evidence to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime or to another competent prosecutor because not reporting a crime is a criminal offence. So there is no doubt that this government, and in particular Alexander Vukic, is fully defined for the fight against organised crime, and in that sense you are welcome to hand over every piece of evidence. I repeat once again, if this discussion is going to one time, and I think it's going towards one stream to fully respect the agenda and what is today's topic, I want to point out that I have nothing personal. I hope I haven't offended Mr. Dulic in any way. If anyone in my MP group has hurt, we're also giving an apology in that regard personally. The procedure must go its course. We're not happy to remove immunity, but it's simply a request from the prosecution and it's part of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3059	Would you like to see Mrs. Gojkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3060	Dear colleagues, the president asks me if I want to speak because I have been having a dilemma all day whether to share my thoughts with the MPs or not, so I turned off the microphone especially in the first part of this session before the break because I think the session went in a completely different direction than that tone we were supposed to have today and seriously talk about eliminating one of our deputies' immunity, this time to Mr Oliver Dulic. I thought Mr. Micunovic, as the former speaker of parliament, would say what he really is, what makes immunity and why he exists. It does not exist to protect an individual from investigative actions or processing later in the proceedings or execution of some punishment, but to protect parliament from some political will or the processing of MPs against some minor offenses. So we know that it is in the past, and perhaps in this congregation and in the future, there will always be the intention of one part of the government to defile parliament and to judge someone because they do not like it politically. I want to believe that this time it's not about that, that it's just a possibility, and I think today, by removing immunity from Mr Oliver Dulic, we're helping. Anyone who has ever been the subject of a media hack knows what this sentence of mine means - to help one of my colleagues to take that mark off himself and that since the burden of proof is on whoever has raised and initiated the procedure, but also to prove through the procedure that he is innocent and that there is no concrete entity of the crime that is put on his burden. Let's leave it in the process that follows, as I heard Mr. Dulic has already reported to the prosecutor's office in the presence of a lawyer, while we are here talking about abolishing immunity, and made a certain statement. I would like to say that our parliamentary group does not have a member in the Committee on Administrative Affairs under the circumstances, and that is one big flaw, and I think that this Committee on Administrative Affairs should take pictures of the political picture of this Parliament, the political picture of Serbia, and then everyone would know much more about what is going on. You see how important this committee is, one of the most important. So we didn't have a direct source to get information about what was going on, who initiated the procedure, which is the essence of the process, what is being put on the burden of one of the MPs, but we had a completely wrong source, which is the source available to us daily, which is the media. Of course we need to look away from these media because by mistake each of us a little bit, from the parties that were in power, which are now in power, we've all done a lot of things that the media image looks like it is, that someone who has money or can, or power or power that can conduct what the front pages of the media will look like. I can tell myself that I am, and it may not be seen so much in Belgrade, there are those local media sites, I have often been the victim of this hack, and I am still, especially since 2004, until today because some parties simply can't forgive you if you're different, if you're not from the same mile, if you're not doing the same thing that most of them are doing at one point becoming a minority, and that's why I can understand MP Oliver Dulic, I can understand his family, because it's the hardest for families. When I became mayor in 2004, or I didn't become a citizen but was elected by the citizens of DS Boris Tadic, he told me one sentence when we saw each other, as then the opposition party went into a big media coup against me, but I don't mind it, and now I'm on Mr. Dulic's side, because I have this experience, that on the day you win, you lose that eagle of innocence and you get into a situation that the media is slowly dirtying you, whether you want it or not, and Mr. Dulic knew what it was going into politics in Serbia. I don't want this to be some kind of closing word. I hope there's still some heads of Parliament calling. The most we can do is help Ambassador Oliver Dulic if we stop talking the way we talked this morning. If it's our defense of parliament to call on anyone to better interpret the Rules of Procedure, we're not going to help him. He'll do the best in defense he can. This is just, as I understand it, an investigative procedure. Maybe nothing's going to go against him. At one point, at least we who do not participate in the work of the board have called on the media that he is not even calling for immunity. Don't let him defend himself from his desire to defend himself in the best possible way, because he was a minister and he knows best what he's done, whether he may have been broken in the procedure of one of the laws or he'll be carrying part of the guilt. To protect him, to protect parliament, because he remains an MP, he is not taken away from the post of MPs. Because of the public, who got up so much with our mistake and with everything that's going on in the media, he needs to get in the process as soon as possible, to give his statement, to allow him to defend himself with freedom, but that we don't artificially establish his immunity, because it will always remain in the air that he is protected from something he doesn't want. Of course, we will vote to take away immunity because we are in favour of having the truth found out in this House and that Mr. Dulic and his family take off that burden that the public has put on his back all these weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3061	Thank you. Since none of the representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are moving to the order according to the application for the word. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3062	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we had the opportunity to listen to the oath of one of our colleagues who entered the Parliament club. Among other things, in that oath, like all of us who took the oath, he said that he would do the work of the messenger honestly and honestly, that he would serve the truth and justice. It doesn't matter when in our oath we say such big words. We can't forget that in the days ahead we're doing the opposite. Why do we have to keep listening to stories that politics is something that starts with the letter "K", that politicians are troublemakers, criminals, thieves, etc. I would like it never to happen again in Serbia like this one moment when we are in a position to discuss the abolition of immunity to one of our colleagues. I'd like this to be the last time. I would like Serbia to be a country in which politics will be a skill, in which politics will be a virtue, where politics will be dealt with by the most honorable and honest people and when we appear at any end of our country to be welcomed by people with enthusiasm and to say – here, this is one of the best among us in Serbia. There are not many MPs – 250 and we should be the best in Serbia, to be elected among those seven million or how many of us there are and to serve the honor and example of everyone. So, this discussion today and all that's going on in Serbia shows that we're a little out of the way. I hope that very quickly, thanks to the position and opposition, we will establish some normal relations, relations where politics will also be something spoken with respect and where MPs, politicians, ministers will be the best among us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3063	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3064	President-in-Office of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is no longer a matter of removing immunity, but of an organised political lynch, primarily of the Democratic Party. So we haven't even welcomed 100 days of government, and the fight against organised crime and corruption is experiencing an overall fiasco. Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic complains of alleged pressures he receives as the bearer of the fight against organised crime and corruption, but does not say that there is no support for this fight in the government itself. So it's not about the pressure, to clarify the citizens, the underworld and the crime against Alexander Vukic, but about the pressure of his coalition partners who are not in the interest of ending the affairs. We as DS will first give Mr. Vukic support for this fight and stand with him at the head of the column, but all affairs will have to end until the end, to process themselves to the end, and anyone who wronged the law will have to answer. I call on Mr. Alexander Vukic, as deputy prime minister, to publicly state what he meant when he said there were obstructions in police and what is the factor of the government of the Republic of Serbia, who, on the one hand, is trying to criminalise the DS, and on the other hand is obstructing investigations and arrests. You're saying this isn't political persecution, then we ask the representatives of the government -- why isn't all this done in silence? Why didn't you in silence open an investigation, bring in the suspects, take their statements, let the court judge? Instead, there is a months-long hack on DS representatives, on former ministers, and you are trying to create an atmosphere of lynch in which it no longer matters whether Oliver Dulic or someone else is guilty or innocent. What's important is that today he can't walk the free street with his family because someone can think of jeopardizing his physical integrity. Today his father was admitted to the hospital as someone who suffered more than just because of, above all, signs in the media. We're just asking if it's a long-announced fight against organised crime and corruption and whether it's the way you're going to achieve your results in the area. We hear from the deputy prime minister that this fight applies to everyone. So, how does everything go, and on the other hand, the political background of the Agrobank affair is put under the rug? How come when the investigation found that no DS member was involved in this affair, that affair ended up in the drawer of someone's desk? How is it possible that Mladjan Dinkic hides every time the National Savings Bank is mentioned? How does Serbian Prime Minister Ivica Dacic not want to answer the questions raised by the media, opposition leaders when it comes to the Galenika affair? What's that? Is the Prime Minister hiding? (President: Please do not use offensive terms, because "so-called The prime minister" is not an appropriate term. Mr. Ivica Dacic is the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. I'm just asking you to use terms that don't insult dignity. ) It's a state of play. That's not offensive. (President: The situation in the Republic of Serbia is known. Please. ) Will the investigation or the investigation of "Srbigas" be completed by the end? These are questions that DS MPs will insist on every day. There won't be a day to not ask the same questions to Hansel Dacic. Are there any who sit in this House today involved? We don't know, maybe they did, maybe they didn't. We won't know until the whole affair is processed. Although I am palely watched by the SPS MPs, if Branko Ruzic were in the O.R., he would explain to you what this is all about. President of Parliament, you have also sinned against my colleague and friend, as well as your colleague, Oliver Dulic, by condemning him the other day in your statement that this home will not be a hiding place for those who have committed crimes. In that sense, I'm asking you for a public apology and Oliver Dulic and the DS Parliament Club. Otherwise you'll admit that you're part of those who are trying to turn this into an DS hack. We will not participate in the discussion today, we will not participate in the vote either, because Oliver Dulic publicly gave up his immunity. We will withdraw today and allow the authorities to finish their work as soon as possible, because we deeply believe Oliver Dulic will prove his innocence. Thank you. (Democratic Party emissaries have left the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3065	Thank you. The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3066	Thank you, Mr. President. I must say that this former work of the Republic's Parliament has passed in the wake of a great struggle to deny something that is obvious. It passed in an attempt to disprove the mockery of the fight against organised crime, led primarily by SNS President Aleksandar Vukic. In his intention to fight organised crime, Aleksandar Vukic has and will have the support of all members of SNS supporters, but also of all people who want to end organised crime and who want to get out of this situation in which our country was brought after 12 years of faceless power, who has violated all the laws that could have violated and brought us to the brink of bankruptcy. In all of this, we must take care of the status that citizens have today, about the way citizens live. Today we were really in a position to hear everything and everything from the people who have now left the session, who could do the same at the beginning of this session, not to simply beat the empty straw, as our people say, all day through noon, but to simply give the opportunity to investigate the organs, the judicial authorities behave and act in accordance with the law, and to allow the gentleman, former Minister of Spatial Planning, Oliver Dulic simply to say what he has to say, if he has something to say and if he knows what he wants to say on the subject of laying that famous optical cable along the highway, which is why the citizens of Pirota, where I come from, had to travel much harder than they could travel through the Sitician clisure. I have to say that it was really unremembered, that the optical cable was placed on the bank side of the highway, which made traffic very difficult and why we had to have very difficult communication with central Serbia. We at the Pirot first saw that something was wrong. We were trying to point out that it really doesn't make sense that someone is setting up a optical cable on the track on which the Corridor 10 highway route will be built, because just because someone passed the optical cable, a simple folk dictionary, is said to have increased the cost of building the highway later that should be done on that track. The team began to ask questions, and we simply came to the conclusion that those people who were in charge of construction there too and for the laying of that optical cable do not know who gave the permission and why it was done so concisely, considering that only five months ago, six months ago, the optical cable was passed by another operator, whom I would not mention the name, but it all went through in one drink, without a detailed analysis of what was necessary and without the necessary processes and procedures provided by law. That's how it was confirmed by some professional people who deal with telecommunications from Piroth. We were really wondering how that was possible. How is it possible that a minister, such as Mr Oliver Dulic, who, I will remind you, in 2008, recorded in his paper the fact that only in Pirot, in the pyrotic municipality did the destruction of built objects on plots in the personal property of the Zavojsko lake, in the weather, at a temperature of minus four, how is it possible that this man, who has so insistent on respecting the law because apparently these facilities near the Zavojsko lake did not have all the permits, could afford himself the luxury to agree with the laying down of the optical cable of the company from Slovenia, which I am not qualified to do so, because he does not have any professional quality, nor has any employees, operatives, nor did he deal with it? How can such a man, an expert, an orthopedic doctor in the field of spatial planning afford such luxury? We wondered, and some were throwing us – it is possible, he had an ingenious idea of digging tunnels from the city hall to the republican parliament. Well, he probably thought of something like that. However, to the joke aside, people who suffered damage from the conduct of the Republic Building Inspectorate, who directly carried out this illegal destruction by Oliver Dulic, received in court proceedings before the Administrative Court judgments which were confirmed several times. In the end, the government of the Republic of Serbia's Administrative Commission itself admitted that the collapse was illegal. Now we have a situation that Mr. Dulic has come to the point of having to be struck by the investigative authorities. That is why we from the Socialist Movement, headed by Alexander Vulin, will give full support to Alexander Vukic in the fight against organised crime, which does not exist unless there is a rope between criminal structures and those in power. We will argue that all perpetrators, or those suspected of it, do not have the ability to call for immunity or anything else, but simply answer for what they did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3067	Thank you. Mrs. Malovic is not in the O.R. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, the SNS parliamentary group today will support the proposal of the Administrative Board for Disposal, i.e. the confiscation of immunity to the former minister, current fellow MP, Mr. Oliver Dulic. As an MP from Vranj today, I was supposed to be in Vranj, because a very important contract was signed between the company "Geoks" and the city of Vranj, where 1,250 people will be employed. On this occasion, I apologize to the citizens of Vranja for not being there, but I am in this House, where I have listened to the lamentations of people who are graduate lawyers, some unfortunately lawyers, who have talked about everything here, not the essence of why we are all here together. We are here, counting on me, because Mr Oliver Dulic, the suspect, called for immunity at the time when he was tried to call for questioning on suspicion, in fact, the basis of the suspicion that he committed a certain crime. If he hadn't called for immunity, the call would have been served, he would have made a statement to police authorities, he would probably have reported to the prosecutor for organised crime and the procedure would have run in the same way as it does to all Serbian citizens, when there are any reasonable suspicions they have committed any crime. There is obviously a wish here for Mr Oliver Dulic and his party colleagues to favor him, that he has a special place in the Republic of Serbia compared to all Serbian citizens, that he has a privileged position and that he is someone who is untouchable to the authorities of persecution, everything under the cloak and what we have listened to all afternoon, which is that it is a political hack. It won't be a political haj, this is what was done at a time when we weren't in power, at the time we were a fierce opposition, at the time a series of crimes were allegedly committed in which Mr. Dulic participated. However, the desire to be shown to the public as some who are on the pillar of shame, such as some against whom even some media hack is being led, is a transparent DS tactics which, from the moment the opposition began to use the story of the media hack. I'm just calling on all of them to say what kind of newspaper it is, which is the press, the printed media, or the electronics in which we have property, where we have the editorial policy, where we've caused any text that attacked anyone. The essence of all of this is why we will vote to confiscate the immunity of Mr Dulic is the unfettered fight against all of us against corruption and crime, for which all the other parliamentary groups who won the mandate stood. So we got from the citizens of Vranja, of course from the citizens of Serbia a mandate to open up the possibility that we could all be equal before the law here in the Assembly. This is also a warning to all ministers who are now in the government that they will pass the time of their ministry, that there will come a moment, that they will answer in front of justice in case they break the law, to put their hand in the hands of citizens, Serbia and to make them sick. The question is, since it was a very important element of the criminal act of abuse of the official position, which is to obtain the anti-legal property benefit or to allow someone to acquire that illegal property benefit, and to the detriment of someone. That this time the damage is huge for all citizens of Serbia, for all those who voted for all the parliamentary groups. Since we have one unity here regarding the withdrawal of parliamentary immunity, and not the parliamentary mandate, I call on the other parliamentary groups to vote and allow Mr Oliver Dulic to prove his innocence in a regular trial before the prosecutor, possibly before an investigative judge or judge. Of course, we stand that the presupunction of innocence exists and applies to everyone, so since it applies to every citizen from Vranja to Sudotica then it will also exist for Mr Dulic. Personally, I'm rooting for him as a man. I feel very bad that his family is going through all this, but it's very uncomfortable that the families of the other people who have responded so far have been processed and punished, some very political. Now we have a counter campaign where there's talk of the suspect being a very good man, raising parrots, guarding birds, being a good father and a good husband, of course it is. But no one has the right to put his hand in the pocket of Serbian citizens, to hold it well there for years, to gain an enormous wealth and then to lamentate over their fate when the time comes and when Uncle Cops come and knock on the door. This awaits all of us if we do any crime, do something that is harmful to Serbia, damage to the citizens of Serbia, and therefore the absolute SNS in everything is supported by Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, of course the entire government that stands on that idea and on that idea is formed, to fight crime and corruption and today we will vote and make the first step towards it, and it will not be the last one, the last one will be much more severe than this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3069	Thank you. Mr. Borislav Stefanovic and Mr. Srdjan Mikovic are not there. Next, Jadranka Joksimovic was reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3070	I thank the chairman and the honourable fellow MPs, I am very sorry that they are now not representatives of the DS who, in the afternoons of this session, have really disarmed me with the insistence that by obstructing Parliament's work, defend something that is truly unprotective. What's indefensible? It is not at all that anyone in this room and any of the MPs of the ruling coalition, speaks in front of the SNS, had the intention or any hidden desire to implicate the MP's guilt, our colleague Oliver Dulic, but at the same time do not forget the former minister in the previous government. It wasn't a topic at all. The topic was that, at the request of the Prosecutor's Office, this Parliament is doing what is in the description of our work, to facilitate the work of the judicial authorities, to seek the truth and justice, how my colleague Stojmirovic really quoted well, even when we swear, when we enter this post we have an obligation to defend and facilitate the public's availability of truth and justice. It is the function of this parliament, all other political speculation and political imputations of some allegedly political hickeys, through some allegedly our media. I really don't know in Serbia what media is owned by anyone other than Dragan Dilas, Miskovic and some other people I don't want to mention, and I don't even have a problem mentioning it, but I'm just not sure about it, so I'm not going to speculate that way. On the other hand, today is a very dreary day in the republican parliament for several reasons. When I came to this session at all, I didn't expect the debate to take place, I thought that we would be doing what our job was in about an hour, an hour and a half, and that is to subtract, at the request of the prosecution, the mandate of one of our fellow MPs who, therefore, is suspected of abuse of official office. These are very difficult doubts and very serious doubts, of course, which will be proven in the investigation that is being conducted. He really called himself initially on his parliamentary immunity and it was our obligation to resolve that immunity, at least I think so. Because first of all, I experience my political function and my parliamentary function, because I would be really ashamed to call even in city transport, to be stopped by someone, if I didn't have a Bus Plus, so I'd be ashamed to say, yes, I'm a MP, I have a parliamentary ID. I don't really know where this kind of thing from DS counterparts is prepared to bring down the elemental postulates, so parliamentary democracy and what we as MPs have to do. It's the first part of the thing that really worried me. It is devastating that we in Serbia's parliament today should discuss that a former minister, a senior official of the former government and a current fellow MP with his own actions, by inaction, will already be seen, has come into this situation in general to be publicly demonstrated, of course we will see how he will proceed further. So, as this process will continue, and I really have no intention of prejudicing anyone's guilt or innocence, but this is truly devastating, it shows the state of Serbia's political life. On the other hand, what DS MPs were doing this morning, which was actually such an obstruction of Parliament's work, and indirectly the work of the judicial authorities by abuse of parliamentary procedure. The abuse of procedures, and the procedure is otherwise one in modern democracy, the basis of democracy, and the abuse of procedures really comes as one kind, you know the anomalous embryo of democracy. And when successfully abused, then indeed parliamentaryism loses its meaning. I couldn't understand it this morning, I wasn't answering the Rules of Procedure, and if there were a lot of reasons, because I didn't want to participate in the obstruction of the judicial authorities and what's in the best interests of the public, and that's the interest and achievement of truth and justice. Just one more thing I can't understand, if someone calls for parliamentary immunity, and it's a very difficult question, I'm not going to say the charges, because it hasn't come to that yet, then the question is, how do we devalue the Institute of Public Life's personal example? A personal example is something that needs to be managed, we are the bearers of public functions, the eyes of Serbian citizens are against us. The way we behave, that's how a citizen will expect the state to treat them. For this reason, I will absolutely vote to take the immunity of Ambassador Dulic and, of course, I expect on some part that in a fair and fair procedure to prove his innocence, it is wrongly legally said that he will not prove his innocence, but will certainly show whether he is responsible for what he is being burdened or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3071	The next reported one is Dragan Tomic, he is not there, and the next is MP Dragan Sormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3072	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and I'm kind of embarrassed that we've been sitting here all day today discussing something that's not happening for the first time in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and in various situations, since I've been an MP, it's been a situation for decades that something like this has happened, but it's usually not been a debate, or I don't remember having a debate, but it comes and does the job, and we vote and we go home after that or some other business to do. Today we've been discussing, we're talking about procedural things, we're talking about mistakes, I don't know why DS did this, the effect of what may have been the goal will be to appreciate citizens, but we need to talk about some facts, we're here today because our colleague is suspected in a particular process that was launched in an investigation by the competent authorities, I said he's calling for parliamentary immunity. We could all hear it in this Assembly building when he came to hold a press conference and said he had called for parliamentary immunity, only to come to the National Assembly, to hold a press conference and accuse political competition or opponents or the current government, that it was only political persecution and that he was doing everything he did, by law, so that's his words. What he said also meant what he did that day, and that's something the law requires the prosecutor to do, that the prosecutor address the National Assembly and ask for his immunity to be abolished. It's something that's legal. Because he later says he doesn't call for immunity, he has nothing to do with what happened, so it can be done several times, he can get an invitation to go to court with an investigative judge, and he can call for immunity. If we don't do it today, every time we do, we can have an immunity call, so he can hold a press conference, and then after that, we can't call for immunity. That's why this has to be done today, but the act costs citizens of Serbia today a minimum of millions and 200,000 dinars. That's what we all need to know. This day, because he said he was calling for immunity, and as not to call for immunity, Serbia's citizens at least millions and 200,000 dinars. It speaks of the responsibility of someone sitting here amongst us, because this assembly day costs, depending on how much we sit, how much electricity we spend, if we were still having a debate here, if we had talked needlessly about the Business, which was completely pointless before noon by DS MPs, we could have slept, how much electricity we would have spent, how much more we would have cost the citizens of Serbia, maybe that day would have been more than a million and 200 thousand dinars, because some river called for immunity, and it's not called for immunity. It's all about responsibility and the way someone behaves and then the whole story of hajka. Please, let's work this out first, we're not the only ones. Journalists' associations are asking for the same thing, at least these two I know of, to determine who the media owners in Serbia are, so let's see who's making the hack, who's making the hack against. In my career, I've had a chance to experience a hickey and I've never complained about the media. I have suffered, because I am a people's MP, because I am a public duty and all citizens need to know everything, so let them appreciate it. Mine as a MP was to deny something, say it wasn't true or that it was true, but I never said an ugly word against any media. It's obvious we have to work that out, too. We need to address the issue of privatization of "Politicals", the question of everything else that's been going on around "Evening News", to see what's going on on the media scene of Serbia, if anyone's talking about hacks. I don't see who could do this on our side to stage a hack against Mr. Dulic, if we know, I'm talking about SNS, who owns the media in Serbia. Let's see if anyone in the SNS or anyone who supports SNS or any opposition party besides DS, for example, owns any media. I must also appeal to the executive authorities in Serbia, because we have three branches of government in Serbia, i.e. the judicial authorities. When something like this happens, it has to have a priority, it has to end quickly, and the investigative authorities need to be efficient and fast in the work in this case and in all the next ones that occur, but also in those who have been, and also in the judiciary. We've heard more than once that there are no serious institutions to fight corruption. The previous government has repeatedly said, when using the term crime and corruption, that there is a fight in Serbia, by instructing cases against cocaine smuggling from South America to Western Europe or the fight against Morava action, the fight against drug abuse in Serbia, heroin, etc. They have never cited a single example of the fight against corruption, but of crime and corruption in the same sack, so there is a fight, no, the fight against corruption in Serbia has not been fought and there is no institutionally seen systemic possibility that a serious fight is being fought, not even today, regardless of the personal attempts of people in the government of the Republic of Serbia and the great engagement of Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. However, both him and his will and the desire to deal with this requires the help of serious institutions that we must create, but also serious justice. I'll give you another example, six years, maybe more so in Smeder's trial of a woman who was mayor, so the mayor's assistant, and now she's the mayor again, and she's always in power with DS and SPS, and it's not gonna end that trial. No wonder the public, one part of the public in Smederev, thinks it's a woman who's a victim of some hack, chases and then gets votes, then a woman runs the city, and she's being tried for abuse of official office and corruption, and the court never ends. The first suspect in this case is the convicted mother of two children, a difficult verdict, eight years in prison and, of course, not a judicial one, has the right to appeal, but is convicted and is currently in prison, and the second accused and third indictee, cannot be completed, is constantly delayed, and, procedurally speaking, the courts would have to solve all these things much faster, the institutions within the police, within the security services, have much more to do with it. How many times have we heard of NUBA investment firm in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Dear fellow Members, the MP then, and now Minister Velimir Ilic has spoken ten times in this case in this House, ten times minimum. No one's started this procedure, so far. Do we need to talk about the Jell-O Bridge? I've talked here five times about that tender, about the bridge on Ada how many times we've talked and everything else that's been done. All of this must be examined, no matter who the government was, who the opposition was, who the government is now, who the opposition, protected must not be, not because we want to join the EU, but because we have to have a cheaper, more responsible state towards the citizens. Citizens have to love their country, not feel that it takes their money out of their pockets and that they're getting through, always the same one, and that they suffer by having the lowest profits in the region, because they can't get jobs, because the real sector can't work because it has an expensive state and expensive local self-government. That has to change. You can't build five from one company on a local level and no one reacts, one or five, and the better effects were like one. It all might seem like I was saying something a little bit wider, but no. The fight against corruption is now the most important in Serbia. There's no more important job than that. You will see, that is something that, and for all those who want to join the EU, we will be much more wanted in the coming period, much more. Here, we see what's going on in Croatia. Strong ministers, and even the former Prime Minister, are detained, tried, defended from freedom, have television shows, but that's what we're going to have to do, no matter what someone's name is. It will have to happen once already in Serbia, and I repeat again, not because we are expected to do so from the EU, but because citizens expect it. They've had a lot of empty stories, that's what they expected from earlier years, but since Tito's time, through Milosevic and all the other DOS leaders here, they haven't welcomed it. Now it's time for that, the last moment for that, it has to be done because in a commercial sense we've experienced, retail, collapse as a state, we're close to bankruptcy as a state, we've talked about it when there was a debate about rebalancing. We must prevent theft in Serbia, and we must distribute money more justly as a state. We can't do that without a serious fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3073	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3074	I thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today in a situation in which he could just, given all the stories and the course of debate and the use of MPs, we could only be pulled out by Mr. Dulic. So he should have come to parliament in the Assembly, to say - gentlemen, I ask you to vote on the abolition of immunity, given that he is currently an MP, and this situation would not have gone in this direction. However, I must remind once again of the situation that the previous decisions, the previous one, are called by the National Assembly of the RS, some of the acts that go in this direction and talk about a completely different direction, and what has not been a parliamentary practice so far, have been done indeed in the previous session. What we've heard a lot, I don't want to say again, it's also about removing immunity from the boards of directors, so this is not the first time and this is not any arrest of political opponents, spoken really hard words from the great parliamentarian, Mr Micunovic. I'm sorry he's not here, and above all, I wish I'd heard the word from the former prime minister, a word from former minister's justice, but from some others who may be less familiar with all the events and all the handling of the previous four years to this country. No SNS, her coalition partners can't deal with the arrest of political opponents, we don't have any judges in this session, we haven't changed anyone, we don't have any prosecutors. After all, people, and many times there have been words in this parliament, you know how the citizens of Serbia know how the judges were elected, how the prosecutors were elected. Among other things, this procedure is already three years old, why has it not ended, why has innocentness not been proven, as Mr. Micunovic said, that our colleague, a respected colleague, is innocent? There wouldn't really be a story about all this, but the scenario that's been made in the past four years, I can't just say four years, it's been done much more, it's started since 2000 on here, it starts with the judiciary, it starts with these institutions, it starts with the media and the whole campaign against certain personalities, it comes back to you as a boomerang and there's an old good folk -- don't, so don't be afraid. That's not enough, obviously, for all of us without any current conviction for what a respected colleague did or didn't do, we're not really dealing with it. You have two million people in Serbia every morning who, believe me, you know perfectly well, have one bitter truth, have a situation that they're in charge of schooling their excellent students, their children and that they don't know where they're going after that with good students. You have a situation where 690,000 people in the morning get up in total hunger, you have a situation where two million citizens of Serbia are on the verge of existence. You have one tsunami that has hit us in the past 12 years, all of us citizens of Serbia, but also the isolation in which the Republic of Serbia was in the 1990s, but also the regime in which we were in, the whole surrounding environment and all of NATO bombs are indeed these 12 years of classical robbery, and for the robbery of who else is responsible than governments and all those who are in the leadership of these governments. No one here really cares about the citizens of Serbia. This is the beginning of a fight against corruption in one way so that none of us will ever think about being bold in view of their function and reaching out for anything again. I really appeal to and potential again, I would like somewhere, in the end, that all this goes on some other time, but Serbia has experienced one such accident in this tsunami where there really is only one situation. Who could have gotten us into this whole situation? It has been the government of the RS for all these 12 years, and I say NATO bombs could not have hit the poverty of Serbian citizens. It must no longer occur to anyone, to be allowed on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, and the chosen here, in any other place, to think, or at the end of his mind, to hold back and to do any other thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3075	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3076	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a very sensitive question, a question of immunity. So even in the ancient Roman times, the representatives of the people had immunity. Immunity, but above all, from pursuing for a publicly spoken word, so they can do public work. This is obviously not about a publicly spoken word and another situation where we could defend the removal of immunity is if the government tried to bring opposition champions, the opposition representatives to a certain form of classical guilt, through the judiciary as it is, to disqualify them politically. Obviously, this is not the second time I'm talking about abolishing immunity because of a publicly spoken word, but it's not about abolishing immunity because of the persecution of a political champion or a prominent political figure from the opposition. I'm saying this because there was a suspicion that he committed a certain crime, it dates back to a time when the person concerned was a government, so he was a minister. The investigations carried out were launched at the time he served as minister. I would like to add that the investigation was conducted by the late Verica Barac, the adviser for fighting corruption. So it can't be about persecuting an opposition figure by the authorities, which those who escaped have tried unsuccessfully to force the new majority. The next thing I know, it's my opinion that what hit them is, first of all, fear of themselves. So, I think they were caught by fear of their own reformed deformed judiciary that they just reformed. I think they were afraid we'd throw them away with their lions. They know best how this system worked in their time, how many they served, how many people they put in custody for 15 months and two years without any hard evidence, and that detention almost turned into a prison. So they're afraid of what they've done themselves. There is an old saying, which you judge by judgment, which you will be judged by. That's what scared the DS, or their representatives, which is why they left this session. I repeat, custody, and if it is, it has to be more humane and different from their time. So no one should be thrown into custody for a long time. The detention is just a necessary measure, a necessary measure, and if necessary, then my advice is to be implemented. Prison doesn't mean the man is guilty. So no one here prejudges Mr. Dulic's guilt. The media lynch he complains about is once again justifiable fear of themselves. So, the media and the media image that is in Serbia today, they did. The media wasn't in control during their reign. The media, particularly printed, were owned by authorities while they ruled. During their reign, we didn't have one TV Bastille, we had five TV Bastilles. Today they complain about the media link that is being implemented primarily because they have gone up to each other, so now one current uses this problem against another power in their own party. If in any way this government had fabricated any evidence against Mr. Dulic, I would be against abolishing immunity. So, he, and there is no slightest doubt, is not being persecuted as an opposition figure. The work to be put on him has been done as a government and he needs to defend himself from it in court. What concerns me is the selectivity and possibility of Mr. Dulic being pulled out of the deck and his immunity being lifted. I think there are bigger culprits. That's my opinion. So, I'm not a court or a prosecutor's office, but I think we should get out of here. They and we both need to be clear that this country didn't rob itself. In addition to the parliamentary immunity, there is also political immunity from the persecution of various foreign intelligence services, various influences of the embassy, I would also like to say this, that Mr Dulic, in 2008 he banned the construction of a battery recycling plant on water supply in India on a falsified plot that gave him ecological consent, but, behold, later on, they managed to break it, break it and work today. I have repeatedly warned of the corrupt activities of the former government, including this problem I have identified. And today I'm going to ask the D.A.'s office what's up with these dilbers of mine. They have no parliamentary immunity. What political immunity do they have, which is why the D.A. isn't burdening them with the actions I've been burdening them for the third or fourth time in this room? I want to say the following about the previous problem. On Saturday, he was detained and arrested by an environmentalist, president of the New Sad Environment Organization, and no one in any word tried to defend him, but today the opposition people have tried in every way to establish immunity for classical crimes. With that in mind and the model of their behaviour, I'd like to quote the former secretary of state at the Justice Department. That's what I want to show them that they have two models of behavior. I am sorry that my esteemed colleague, almost the oldest in their parliamentary group, is not there to prove to him that they have two models of conduct, one as power, and the other as opposition. I will quote on 21 June 2011, Belgrade: "The Serbian government could soon decide which state officials will be limited immunity. By all accounts, politicians will only be protected for what they said about the pay phone, but not for serious violations and crimes. This would no longer protect peoples from prosecution, and at least by something they would be equal with other citizens of Serbia." This is what the State Secretary at the Department of Justice, Slobodan Homen, said. Next, Homen says the ministry has already formed a task force to amend the Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure Act. Practically, the legal framework for the immunity of MPs, members of the Serbian government, the Constitutional Court judge, as well as judges and prosecutors, is already in the process. Immunity, by the Constitution of the envisaged category, should exist, as everywhere in the world and should not be the subject of abuse. But reality is different, as in Serbia it is a perfectly normal phenomenon that individuals are calling for immunity for classical crimes, providing protection against prosecution. It is necessary for ministers and MPs to have status, like all other citizens, when it comes to responsibility for classical crimes, Homen says. What else is there to say about them? In the end, I want to say that we, our citizens, whose poverty and misery is almost unsustainable to watch, must return the state, the state that has been torn away and torn from their hands. This people, this country has been robbed to the bone. Every man, every woman, every child, every old man. The opposition cannot be persecuted, but it cannot be amnested by the escape to the opposition for the crimes you have committed as a minister. What, shall we leave them alone, that, when they have finished the parliamentary mandates, they write their memoirs in style like this: I was a god; I have robbed my people; I have helped myself and my neighbor? Now, that won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3077	The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3078	Thank you. Dear President, the respected presidency, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, to the satisfaction of Serbia's citizens, has begun an action -- to cleanse Serbia of corruption and crime. According to First Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, this is only the beginning of the fight against corruption. The consequence of the former regime's rule is that wherever they scratch, something rots. Many of the former regimes are responsible for this well-being that has hit people in Serbia today and therefore the culprits must respond. All those who were or are now involved in corruption and crime should respond to the law. The fight against corruption is difficult and dangerous, but our government will have the support of citizens and parliament in this fight. To correct injustice against the state and citizens, which has been created by corruption and crime, it is not enough just to arrest those responsible, but to confiscate property acquired by crime and corruption. As for MP Oliver Dulic, we MPs are not here to judge whether he is guilty or not, but at the request of the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, it is necessary to abolish the immunity of MP Oliver Dulic for the presumption of abuse of the official position under Article 359. Criminal law and determining detention. The removal of immunity should allow for further work by the competent authorities and create conditions for compliance with the law. Thank you. 30/1MG/SU16,20-16,30
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3079	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3080	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, corruption and crime have, in particular, caught so many roots in our society for the past ten years, that they threaten to destroy it and destroy our country of Serbia. Conscious of this, the SNS placed in its programme document the fight against corruption and crime as one of its primary tasks, because it was aware that the fight against corruption and crime was the basic condition of our society's economic and overall recovery in general. That is why it is no wonder that the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Mr. Ivica Dacic, put in its document, or platform, as one of the basic tasks of fighting corruption and crime. Corruption has affected all the pores of our society, the economic sphere of society, health, education, judiciary, state administration and other spheres, as well as political structures, or politics. Therefore, the fight against political crime and corruption is one of the main priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia and of all other authorities, as it is very often linked to corruption in the economic area, in education, in the administration, in the judiciary and in other forms of crime. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, if removing immunity to MP Oliver Dulic, one of the steps and fighting corruption and crime, should be welcomed, and we as MPs should give our contribution as soon as possible and vote to remove the immunity of Mr Oliver Dulic, in order to enable the judicial authorities to do their job. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I will quote Mr. President Nebojsa Stefanovic - must not and will not be a haven of people who have committed certain crimes, finished the quote, and I am adding - even if it is the MPs, even if it is me, about Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, about Mr. Sutanovac, about Mr. Petrovic. It's a little strange, ladies and gentlemen, that the former ministers, so even from the DS, in the former government of the former regime, have become all the MPs here in the National Assembly. I believe that it was not their motive to protect them from immunity, I probably believe, that the motive is for the people's interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The removal of immunity to Oliver Dulic is not politically motivated, there is no political persecution in this matter, and it would certainly never have been allowed by SNS MPs, and neither would SNS leaders and its president, Mr. Vukic. The Serbian Progressive Party will advocate that in the procession of those who have committed crime, they will not be privileged, they will not be protected. Ladies and gentlemen, the state has to function, either it will be, or it will not be, or it will not be, and the SNS thinks it will be and will function and that all those who have become involved in crime and corruption will be processed. In order to stop Serbia's collapse, criminals must go to jail and the SNS will do everything they can to ensure that criminals of crime and corruption are behind the lock, because that's what Serbian citizens are looking for. Serbian citizens are looking for something else, ladies and gentlemen, to return the property illegally to the citizens of Serbia, and then to prison for those who illegally took it. There is no media link, there is no media link against Oliver Dulic here, he was headed against Alexander Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic, and I am informing you that today is being led against one and the other, so I must remind you that no president of the Republic of Serbia, from the first king of the IX century until today, no ruler has come to power and won elections like Tomislav Nikolic. Ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully followed the debates of the MPs. I was touched by a little discussion by Mrs. Gojkovic Maja, the Maltenes cried about Mr. Dulic's family. Of course, you should feel sorry for your family on condition that Mr. Dulic is innocent. How are millions of families disfigured and robbed in this country and their children, who don't have bread bark tomorrow and have to go to school? Are you crying for those robbed children and their parents? I call on all MPs, and in particular the MPs of the DS, it is unfortunate that they are not here tonight, to strongly support the government of the Republic of Serbia and the co-ordinator of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the fight against corruption and the first vice president, Mr Alexander Vukic, in the fight against corruption, because, ladies and gentlemen, you will thus show your commitment to the fight against the greatest evil of modern Serbian society. On that behalf, tonight we will vote to abolish Mr Oliver Dulic's immunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3081	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3082	I replicate when one of the MPs enters legal matter, and I'm guessing I'm not a lawyer. I didn't cry in my speech by the head of the parliamentary group over the fate of any family. I was talking, dear colleague, about some other things. I was talking about the assumption, so the presummation of innocence and that parliament is not a courtroom and that it should not turn into that. We have today come to a session of parliament to confiscate immunity from one of the MPs, and we are not invited to give or qualify someone's actions, or inaction, with concrete criminal acts. There's a big difference between MPs who talk about the essence of things, who say that we're all politicians when we agreed to enter this profession, we're under the public eye, and we're victims of a media hack. You're a new MP, maybe, I don't know, but I've been in Serbia's political life for a long time, and I've been a victim of a media hack. I've never talked about it publicly, but in that sense, I understand the families of all politicians who have to go through what they have to go through, and they're not concerned with politics, but they're in the face of circumstances in relation to us dealing with this business. Of course, as a man, I have an understanding for his family, which does not exclude understanding for the families of all the citizens of this country, including the social categories that you have listed here. It wasn't the subject of comparison at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-08-0.u3083	Thank you. (Marko Atlagic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Atlagic, I will use my long-standing friendship with you to ask you to give up. Thank you. Mr. Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga and Bojan Kostreš are not there. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word and before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Before we determine the exact time of the vote, I would only ask that we confirm the mandate of the MP. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the National MP's mandate, to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly be in accordance with Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Milinko Zivkovic, elected from the electoral list Let's run Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic. On the basis of the decision of the Republic Election Commission and the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, The law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Milinko Zivkovic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election and ask him to approach for the sake of taking an oath. The president reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. "I swear to uphold the duty of the civil servant and the civil liberties and the best knowledge and the ability to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice") I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath. I hope we have a successful working together in this term. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, today, October 8, 2012, starting at 16.45 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. I'm setting a ten-minute break and I'm asking all MPs to approach the vote in ten minutes. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue the decision-making work on the sole agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. In order for us to be able to approach the vote, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 144 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We move to a decision on the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE IMmunITY OF THE NATIONAL MEETING TO DULIĆ After the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to the decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, abolishes the immunity of the MPs. We're moving on to decisions. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to abolish the immunity of MP Oliver Dulic. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – one, of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has adopted a motion for a decision to abolish the immunity of MP Oliver Dulic. I would like to remind you of the provisions laid down in Article 103(6) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Janko Veselinović, at a session on 8 October 2012, at 11:25 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted – 127, of the total 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, at a session on 8 October 2012, in 14.20 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 103, 106 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted - 124 out of a total of 124 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012.
