ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the tenth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 81 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue the initial search of the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC PROGRAMME. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8857	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the current Public Procurement Act has been in place since 2009, and the practice has shown that this law has many shortcomings and is not in line with EU directives, so it is being amended. This bill, which we have received, has been available to the public since February of the month and a public debate has been held on this proposal, somewhere in October of the month, has made observations as I have seen about 40 subjects on this proposal and some objections have been accepted in full and in principle, or partly incorporated into this law. The bill is a consolidated law covering public organisations of a type of municipal activity and a defence and security sector. In the defence and security sector, I have to say by law that this topic is not covered. In the draft law or this bill, in principle and to a greater extent, it is in line with EU directives, rather than the existing law, but unfortunately it is not fully in line. In this bill of law, we have several newspapers. I would point out a few of them, which is including environmental issues in purchases, electronic procurement, electronic bidding, then, using a central supply register, information meetings with bidders. As we know, the bill allows free application of an open or restrictive procedure. Then in this bill, we have a new chapter on preventing corruption and conflict of interest. As I said, the same new chapter on the defence and security sectors that were developed in the model of the EU directive, but unfortunately they are not fully in line with it. If we look at the whole law as the structure of the law, it's almost the same as the law in application, we only have two new chapters on preventing corruption and conflict of interest and, of course, as I said in the defence and security sector. I have already said once that unfortunately the law is not fully in line with European standards, but it is better aligned than the law that is now in place. So it seems that many of the new directives introduced in the proposal are based on the EU formulation and directives, but have been introduced with our variations into this bill. I'd like to highlight a definition of the orderer here. In the law, a general definition is given to the contracting authority, which is in our case public sector contracting authorities and is defined as beneficiaries of the budget system. So this formulation is not exactly in line with European community directives. The definition of the terms we use in the law is quite precise and I would like to distinguish the terms: the same types of works, the equivalent of goods, the equivalent of services. That's why I singled this out because in practice it has been so far that large public procurements have been divided into several small public procurements precisely because of these terms, which was not true, decidently said which are the same works. So large public procurements were divided into small or small public procurements so that these purchases could not be published on the site. So, with exceptions here, we can single out that this bill has fewer exceptions than the existing law. If we look at the procedures of this law ourselves, we must point out here that this bill allows for open procedure and restrictive procedure, which has been a major criticism of the existing law that is in place. I will still list some facts that are not exactly in line with EU directives, which are the conditions for applying the negotiation process, then competitive dialogue. As we know, the existing law does not allow competitive dialogue, but this bill contains this term modelled by the European Community directive, but does not fully comply with it. If we look at the deadlines ourselves, there have been a lot of objections to the deadlines that are short in this law as it applies. We see by the bill that some deadlines have, by the way, been extended. It is very important to me and I very much like that environmental protection is put into this law, that orderrs, where possible, include environmental issues in the criteria for the award of public procurement contracts. These information meetings with the bidders, I think it's a good thing, because after winning the tender, the client has the right or he can hold this information meeting with all the bidders, to explain who he is and why he was rejected, or why he didn't get the offer and who got the offer. This condition, if I know correctly, is not a request from the EU, but I think the transparency of this law will help these meetings. I also think it's very good that we're using information technology right now. So, electronic procurement or electronic bidding in public procurement. The EU has failed to do the same many times, and it has been strictly written in these directives. It's been taken over from these directives. I think that's positive. As regards joint procurement, this bill allows one contracting authority to make public purchases instead of the other, or together to make public purchases, if they are previously granted by the administration. As for telecommunications, I think the law in application of the telecommunications sector has taken into account, but the mail sector, unfortunately, is not. This law corrects a mistake like this. Most of the law or the best part of the law is this new chapter on fighting corruption and conflict of interest. Here it is positive that orderers must be in writing to have relations with bidders either in electronic or in writing. Orderers are asked to write, to make an ad, to report on the site, that's normal, I think, but it's for those purchasers who have the cost of public procurement over a billion dinars, they have to organize or make a plan against corruption. They must in their systematize one department, such as internal control or internal audit of public procurement. When planning public procurement, I think it's a positive thing to plan on time, so by the end of the year, I think by March 31st it should be given how the plan was achieved. In these public procurement plans, I think it's positive that plans can't change very much, only 10% of the plans can increase these plans. I think that's correct and good. It is the obligation of the contracting authorities to publish on the site and all small public procurement, of course, to ensure competitiveness, which I think is positive. Of course, there was a lot in practice that due to formal errors someone was rejected in public procurement. I think this law reduces formalism in these rejections of bids. Also, I think it's positive that the offer with subcontractors is formed that the subcontractor can only do up to 50% of its jobs. So far, in practice, it was that the mixed ones were getting public procurement, and only 10-20% of the jobs were processed from the job, and the other jobs were done by subcontractors 80 or over 50%. I think it's a good thing that every worker in the system is set up for public procurement, that he has to pass this exam, to do public procurement. So the training of the frames is enough with this increased. We've heard from the promoter that how many millions or billions of dinars we'll save with this law. I think that time will show how this law will work, of course, and whether it needs to be changed or whether some amendments should be given, but I think this law or this bill is one step ahead, if we look at this law as it is now in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8858	Thank you. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8859	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Public Procurement Act is one of the most important system laws, which regulates the way public funds are spent. If it is given that public funds, the resources of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is clear that it is an order of importance, not only for the contracting authorities and bidders, but also for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are witnessing that the area of public procurement is often a topic in the media, and the context in which it is mentioned is mostly negative. So it can be heard that the procedure is insufficiently transparent, that public procurement is pre-prepared for a specific bidder or that the number of bidders has dropped drastically in the past two years in our country. The Socialist Party of Serbia, as a socially and socially responsible party, has actively engaged in the process of creating ideas and provisions, all in order to improve this bill. We hope to achieve the basic objective of public procurement, which is that the orderer gets so-called. "value for money", i.e. the most economically favourable offer, as defined by the Public Procurement Act. What is an interesting newspaper in this proposal is, and what has not previously existed in the previous law, Chapter II – Preventing corruption and conflict of interest, in which, besides other, it is regulated that the assumed, i.e. The contracting authority shall have the obligation to provide the staff exclusively with written orders, i.e. via e-mail. This solution should make a visible part of the procedure in the public procurement process itself, as it has so far been hidden from the eyes of the public, especially from the eyes of control institutions, such as the DRI and the budgetary inspection. Of course, it will also reduce pressure on public procurement officers. It is important to note that the law stipulates that persons employed in public procurement operations are obliged to reject the execution of orders, if it is contrary to the law, which is indeed one of the newspapers that gives meaning to these people who work in public procurement, respecting the rules of the profession, the provisions of the law, of course, and moral principles. The newspaper is a citizen supervisory institute, which will now supervise and oversee all procedures with the client, whose value exceeds 700 million dinars. In addition to having to report to the Serbian Parliament's competent board for finance, AP and local self-government, it is mandatory that if there is a fundamental doubt in the law to inform the competent state authorities immediately. In order to implement the process more quickly and efficiently, the Public Procurement Act also provides for new procedures, which is a competitive dialogue. The competitive dialogue will be able to benefit the contracting authorities only if the subject of public procurement is particularly complex, so that the contract on public procurement cannot be concluded as so far, by applying an open and restrictive procedure. As for the famous public purchases of small values, we all know that these are purchases of up to three million dinars, it is particularly interesting to point out that this bill provides a commitment for the contracting authorities, that the call be made on the public procurement portal. The remarks which so far existed in practice, which concerned insufficient transparency, have thus been removed by this proposal of the law. In addition to these three requirements that are sent to bidders, contracting authorities will have to publish an ad on the portal and will be able to find out about the process. They'll have a chance to make an offer. When it comes to the public procurement portal, it is a place where all interested persons and the public will be able to see published competitive documentation, a list of negative references, a list of contracting entities, a list of contracting entities that are holders of special or exclusive rights, a notice of initiation of the negotiation procedure, a decision to amend the contract, a list of contracting entities in the municipal sector, a summary quarterly and annual public procurement reports, a publication of judgments for certain infringements and a list of contracting entities whose needs are centralized by the Republic Authority's Joint Affairs Authority. We of the SPS parliamentary group have tabled one amendment and we point to a failure to make clear in this provision regarding the publication of procurement plans. The publication of procurement plans on the portal would further contribute to the achievement of the principle of transparency of public procurement as one of the basic principles. This would increase the average number of bidders involved in the procurement process. Since they will know in advance what is being obtained and will be able to prepare adequately for submission of offers. Also, the public, media and NGOs will have the opportunity to indicate whether certain procurements are necessary, justified or unnecessary, or that there are no grounds for carrying out insufficient transparent procurements, such as the negotiation process. I especially must mention that all public procurement ads will be published on the portal of public procurement and the Internet address of the client. This means that there is no more publication of calls in "The Official Messenger", which is also a saving for the contracting authorities, if the price of these ads is taken into account. In mandatory conditions, there is no longer any obligation to deliver the founding act, which is a positive newspaper because the evidence has burdened the bidders and the procedure in which they participated so far. She was often the cause of an irregular offer. For example, it was delivered, and it wasn't certified. What is the same important newspaper is the existence of a register of bidders of all those who meet the conditions laid down in this law and will be managed by the competent registration authority. Registers will be updated every two months and will be available on the website. So far, a large number of procedures have failed because of formal deficiencies, i.e. formal procedures. It was complex, and when the evidence was collected, there were often small gaps that made it impossible to complete and end the procedure. The introduction of a tendering register will make the procedures much faster and more efficient. Each person entered in the register shall not be obliged to make an offer to demonstrate the continued fulfilment of those mandatory conditions necessary. Such a newspaper will have a significant impact on the efficiency of the public procurement process, with the bidder itself, it will be much easier to take into account the time and resources needed when collecting the documentation for participation in the procurement process. Article 48 provides for a body for centralised public procurement, which is the contracting authority which concludes framework agreements or assigns contracts for good services or works intended for contracting or directly supplying goods, i.e. services for the needs of the contracting authority. A body like this can be educated at the republican, circuit or local self-government level. This will create preconditions for large savings if the state authorities, the contracting authorities use this right, provided by law. To give an example of heat or some equipment, it's not the same thing when you buy one orderer or when you join five, of course it'll be cheaper. Or, for example, if more local self - administrations are joined together and one supply is made for a good or a service, of course it will be cheaper. Similarly, the Agency for Joint Affairs of Republic Authorities will conduct centralised procurement for the needs of state bodies, organisations and judicial authorities. The bill provides for the existence of negative references, and the Public Procurement Administration determines the existence of negative references and will guide them. This provision should help the contracting authorities to overcome the problem of the existence of irresponsible and unconscious bidders. He will have an obligation to reject the offer if there are negative references. The bill definitely made the lack of offers that the client has the right to reject, while other shortcomings correct if necessary, in the manner in which accounting errors are corrected. The draft law defines that the offer has significant shortcomings, if the offerer has not demonstrated in the offer that it fulfils the obligations and additional conditions, if the time limit of validity of the offer is shorter than certain competitive documentation, if no means of security has been delivered or if the offer has other deficiencies based on which it is not possible to determine the content of the offer. For example, if the tenderer did not specify the delivery deadline in part of the contract or in any other form, he did not deliver the guarantee, did not state the payment deadline or could not be compared to the other offers. This solution was introduced because the practice showed that the contracting authorities had to reject the most favourable offers due to formal deficiencies, if for example not all parties were initialled. In the part of the law that regulates the protection of rights, there has been a significant change, primarily the number of members of the republican commission to six and plus the chairman of the commission. The basic idea of such a provision is the more efficient work of the republican commissions, due to an increase in the scope of jurisdiction. In addition to the Commission's powers so far, under a new draft law, the Republic Commission will impose fines on the contracting authority and the responsible person of the contracting authority, conduct a first-degree infringement procedure and initiate a procedure to determine the invalidity of the procurement contract. Such provisions will give this authority much greater authority, especially in the field of control. For members of the Republic Commission, a person who fulfils the conditions necessary for the selection of judges of the basic court and who has a three-year working experience in the area of public finances or procurement may be elected. The conditions for two other members are that they have acquired higher education from the scientific field, economic or technical and technological sciences and at least five years of working experience in public procurement jobs, passed an exam for public procurement officers. When this situation is, we have submitted an amendment where we believe it is necessary to enable, among other members of the commission, the graduate lawyers, which is logical, with some experience in the area of public procurement, except for the experts in the area of the economy that are foreseen by the proposal. Of course, the greatest experience in this area is just graduate lawyers. The law on public procurement is a lex specialis and as such represents specific matter and area. Such a provision discriminates against persons most often engaged in public procurement, and it is an imperative decision that a graduate lawyer is a mandatory member of the commission with the contracting authorities. We believe that lawyers are the most experienced people in this area. When it comes to the most frequent mistakes, the most frequently made by the contracting authorities, and now the provisions of the bill have removed them and reduced the possibilities for them to be repeated, in addition to the other, the negotiating procedure without the publication of the call. Additional papers, which unfortunately exist and are implemented both when and when there is no need for them, are one of the ways in which the law is broken. In addition, the conclusion of the contract annex often does not follow the previously implemented procedure, which was a legal obligation. For this very reason, the new law provides for the control of negotiating procedures. The contracting authority is obliged to carry out the negotiation procedure, which is carried out with a specific bidder or because of the existence of an emergency, so-called ‘emergency’. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. The public procurement administration shall be obliged to respond within 10 days and to give that opinion and examination of the existence and basis of the negotiation procedure, and may request additional information and data from the contracting authority during the examination to determine the facts which are relevant for the granting of that opinion. Opinions are just being published on the public procurement portal. If the contracting authority adopts a decision upon receipt of that opinion to enter into the negotiation procedure, it shall immediately publish a competitive file on the initiation of the procedure and a notice of initiation on the same day. The introduction of a preliminary opinion by the Public Procurement Administration aims to reduce the number of negotiation procedures without publication of a public call, and in 2011, for example, the negotiation procedures without publication of a public call were immediately behind the open procedure. I will also provide an example of additional works that are unfortunately carried out and when there is and when there is no need and are also the most common form of violations of the law. In addition, the conclusion of the contract annex often does not follow the procedure implemented, which was legal. Dealing purchases of small value on small purchases. For example, one local self-government, whose purchase value was 18 million dinars, has divided into six small public purchases of three million dinars and thus implemented proceedings against the law. An even more drastic example is the signing of a contract without a prior implementation procedure, which was also established in the control of the competent authorities. Prescription of technical specifications of a particular product is also one way of favouring a specific bidder. Unfortunately, it is not rare for the competitive documentation to contain a draft bidder, i.e. a particular product. It happens that the bidder deliberately makes a calculation mistake, gets elected as the most favourable, because his price is low, and then corrects that calculation error when he sees that he is the only correct bidder. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, the new law should facilitate the implementation of the procurement process, simplify the delivery of evidence to providers for mandatory conditions, all in order to make it faster, more efficient and more economical for public procurement procedures. It is also important to say that all public procurement in the public procurement process was under the public eye and that something that was synonym for hiding and behind the culinary shop, be available to every interested citizen on the public procurement portal. First of all, I think of the public purchases of small values and the negotiation procedures that the contracting authorities have conducted often without a basis or with a already profiled favorite. I would point out the possibility of controlling the application for protection of rights, and certainly the conduct of a misdemeanour procedure before the Republic Commission will be a weapon to get in the way of unconscious contracting authorities. Advocacy of the SPS focuses on the full arrangements of the public procurement system and control of the spending of state money, which is imperative in such a difficult economic situation and such an economic environment. The government's insistence to root out corruption in this particular area is unequivocal, as a recent newspaper has been adopted in the Criminal Code of Criminal Crime of Public Procurement Abuse. We need to brag a little bit. We are the only parliamentary group to deliver its proposals and comments on the draft law, many of which have been accepted. You can see that at the end of the bill, what exactly we've given, and what we've been accepted completely and what we're partly doing. At the very end, I must say, all the measures mentioned as the ultimate goal should have the savings of the country's taxpayers' money, the reduction of corruption, and inefficient and insufficient supply transparencys should become the past. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8860	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Ljubica Vasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8861	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to say a few concrete things about the Law on Public Procurement and its main objectives. The law on public procurement provides for numerous newspapers and the introduction into the legal frameworks of procurement that have not been covered so far. This includes purchases from foreign loans, leases and purchases of immovable property, purchases of small values, i.e. a small-value purchase system, has been arranged and partial centralisation of public procurement per case and per order, which will allow significant savings. The state audit institution has indicated that the current law adopted in 2009 has missed the opportunity to significantly improve the public procurement system and to comply with EU law. The law had numerous exceptions to application. Small-value purchases were non-transparently arranged, and deadlines were poorly prescribed. The state audit institution is the control of 47 entities, which is less than 1%, at the end of last year established the purchases of goods and services contrary to the 85 billion dinar law, so that the State Auditing Institution has claimed that all irregularities in the public procurement process are treated as a criminal offence, and that violations are more severe, as this is the best and most effective way to implement preventive measures. The Serbian Progressive Party believes the new proposal for a law on public procurement is a strong instrument in the hands of political and economic authorities in the fight against corruption and, more importantly, will be completed with constructive proposals from a public debate. In line with all the activities planned for 2011 and 2012, this bill is in line with EU legislation in this area. A new procedure has been introduced when writing the law, which is a competitive dialogue, but new forms of already existing procedures have also been introduced, such as the dynamic procurement system, i.e. the framework agreement. The number of mandatory conditions has been reduced, and the way to prove their fulfillment is quite facilitated. When prescribing certain provisions, particular consideration was taken of their impact on competition, thus providing for certain measures to protect and provide for competition, including criminal measures. The costs of the procedure are reduced through partial centralisation of public procurement, then by encouraging electronic procurement, while in some cases electronic procurement is even mandatory. The availability of public procurement contracts has been increased through increased transparency of the procurement process. The availability of a contract for small and medium-sized enterprises has also been increased through the possibility that the client insists on their participation in the process. The existing Public Procurement Act was adopted in parliament in December 2008, and entered into force in January 2009. Although it has been six years, following the implementation of the previous, or existing law, it has failed to bring public procurement legislation into line with EU law. Three years after the entry into force of the existing law, it became clear that, not only was the public procurement system not improved, but certain failures were made, especially when it comes to the competition segment. The public procurement system in Serbia is still decentralised, leading to a large number of shortages and failures. Taking into account all these shortcomings, I can say that the main objectives of the Bill's proposal are, in fact, increasing competition in public procurement procedures, further compliance with "ki", promoting the integrity of public procurement, but also strengthening the Public Procurement Administration and the Republic Commission for the Protection of the right of bidders. In some ways, the draft is an attempt to move a step further towards harmonising public procurement legislation with EU legal assets and regulation has been followed by principles, agreements and directives of the EU, especially when it comes to the selection of public procurement procedures, the introduction of a framework agreement, a competitive dialogue or a dynamic procurement system. It should also be pointed out that full harmonisation was not the goal, nor is it necessary at this time, so that the deviations that exist with a specific objective, is the intention of reducing their number, as well as their impact. The draft considers that the Public Procurement Administration and the Commission for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers are two key institutions in the public procurement system. The procurement administration, as a key institution, has a role to play in monitoring the practice of public procurement, with the power to submit sublegal acts and the Commission as an independent audit body, with the competences provided for in Directive 2007/66. The bill will give broad powers to the Public Procurement Agency, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Commission for the Protection of Rights, the DRI, to prevent the rise of harmful consequences for Serbia's budget in the procurement process. I can say that the new bill sends a positive signal to the EU, to international financial institutions, but also to foreign investors, that the new government is determined to regulate the issue of public procurement and that, by applying the law, it will be able to measure hundreds of millions of euros and will facilitate Serbia's budget deficit in acceptable frameworks. This is just another one of the many pre-election promises the SNS has fulfilled. We are pleased that this law is in the congregation procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8862	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) We move to the order of MPs according to the application for a word. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8863	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Representative of the Proposer, Mr Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SDPS strongly supports the fight against corruption, and the fact is that in the public procurement process we have corruption, according to certain analyses, of about 600m euros per year. When it comes to the cross-cutting of public procurement and corruption in that area, I must point out that, according to the report "Transparency International", Serbia is 83 places out of 178 countries at the level of corruption, that the average number of bids in the tenders of 8.5 2003 has dropped to 2.6 in 2012, which I can freely conclude, fully devises the system and the public procurement process in our country. Also, I would say that the percentage that defines that one bidder offers its products, goods and services to the customers increased from 14% to as much as 40% in 2012. Every year 9% of GDP goes to public procurement, and what is alarming, 6% of our country's GDP, which is about two billion euros, does not go through the public procurement process. Here we come to a five-billion-euro figure that defines the purchase of goods and services and certain works in the process. If we compare it to the budget deficit of one billion and 100 million euros, we can easily calculate that we would not have the problem of the budget deficit if there were no such level of corruption in our country. Completely in the previous period, trust in institutions has been ordered, trust in public procurement processes has been violated, and we need to do a maximum to raise the capacity of institutions and organisations that control public procurement in our country, in particular to apostrophy the DRI, the Public Procurement Authority, which has extended the powers and increased human and material capacities, in order to deal more with public procurement control in the public sector, of course, and the Commission for Public Procurement Protection, both the contracting authorities and the bidders. What is very important for SDPS is that transparency of public procurement, prevention of corruption in public procurement, have an extremely negative impact on the level of foreign direct investment, because it definitely represents what is called informal tax in the economy and definitely rejects foreign investors, which we need across to reform the economy and so that we can achieve industrial and economic growth in the next period. I won't repeat what were the big mistakes and the big problems of the previous law, but what's most important is that it's the purchase of unnecessary goods and services by quantity, by quality, by content. The problem can definitely be solved by the DRI, which since this year will not only control the correctness and validity of financial reports, but what is very important, the purpose of procurement in the public sector. So what do you get, what does that extra value get when it comes to investing in government money? It is a policy and it is a direction that harmonizes us with directives and with public sector policy in the EU and in developed Western European countries. Some more of the key news is that the law is seriously involved in the preparation of plans in state institutions to fight corruption and fight conflicts of interest, to fight reduced public procurement and a negotiating process that does not publish an invitation to bidders. I'll remind you all that as many as 105 billion dinars have been invested and invested through these two processes that have been completely non-transparent. It is also a very important aspect of this law that electronic offers are defined by electronic means, competition announcements and competition documentation and public procurement needs at the Public Procurement Agency portal. It is also very important to comply with European standards, introduce energy efficiency standards and introduce ecological standards when it comes to selecting those bidders that will realise public procurement. New powers have been defined by the Commission for Protection in the procurement process and we have a situation that the Public Procurement Commission can even conduct infringements against those who violate the law in the public procurement process and it is very important that the level of fines is raised for those who do so. For SDPS, it is a very important aspect and area of small and medium-sized enterprises. The law defines that small and medium-sized enterprises have greatly increased availability when it comes to competition in tenders and in the context of public procurement. It is easier to prepare documentation, the cost of participation in the public procurement process has been reduced, and we all know that our country's future development generator is the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises. The state must do everything in order for these companies to be able with their goods and services, with their employees to participate and be as competitive as possible on the domestic regional and world market. Let me remind you that small and medium-sized enterprises account for 98.8% of domestic economy. They are more flexible than large companies, especially when it comes to specific goods and services can be better bidders than large enterprises and what is very important is that the state, Public Procurement Administration, implement as high as possible information to small and medium-sized enterprises and staff training in small and medium-sized enterprises so that it can be included in the public procurement process as best possible. I cannot ignore the link between the public procurement laws and the Public Enterprise Act. Professionalisation of management in public enterprises will certainly have a major impact on the reduction of corruption in public procurement and on the purpose of public procurement, that what the state budgets invest in is as meaningful for our country, for our institutions and as the ultimate result for the citizens of this country. Therefore, the SDPS will also insist through amendments and appeal to ministries, on the management of public enterprises to implement a participatory management model based on three pillars, on the right of employees and their representatives to be informed, to be consulted and to participate in the decision-making process. I note that in 2009 this Assembly ratified the European Social Charter and its 11 hard provisions that prescribe that every company, in particular public, should implement and allow employees to participate in the decision-making process, including through public procurement commissions and public procurement services, because the role of employees and the role of trade unions in businesses and institutions is no longer a part of the modern world of reverbing issues, minimum earnings and jubilee rewards, overtime, but a wider role. Today they participate in the creation of a company development strategy. They are involved in preventing corruption in these companies and institutions, and only in this way are these state-owned public enterprises through co-operation and consensus with employees and their representatives, you have models of Portugal, France and the UK, within each procurement commission are representatives or union representative organisations or what is called the Staff Council in Europe. Finally, I believe that the law and respect of the Law on Public Procurement also has a very important international aspect, because we all know that without regulated legal regulations and compliance with public procurement rules, we will not even be able to use European funds as candidates for EU accession in the coming period. I'll also remind you of the word of Paul Krugman who said that for a long time, investment in production and in state spending will be made by the state in the budget. So that we must also take care of the budgets, that they are meaningful and that we define the development and reform of our country. In the voting day, the SDPS will support this bill because we believe that along with a whole set of laws that have so far been the basis for further reform and exit from the crisis, exit from recession. It's not just legal regulations that matter... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up, it's important to raise the capacity of personnel and people who run the public sector in our country. It will be a key issue that will determine reforms. I thank you, and I apologize for overstepping my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8864	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Ranka Savik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8865	Madam Chairman, I would like to ask and remind you that today we are talking about one system law, one really important and significant law. In this House so far, everyone has voiced the need to fight corruption, but also to pass a much better law, and I think it would be a fundamental order to at least listen to ourselves and that MPs have so much hearing to listen to the one who speaks. The law on public procurement is a system law. It's very important. I have to say again, because in the end, we all know well how many problems there have been, or more specifically, abuses in public procurement in the previous period. For the sake of the citizens, I will remind myself that only in 2011 was about 300 billion, which was 9% of GDP, public procurement. In addition, numerous unsolicited public procurements in the area of defence and security are numerous, but those whose reports have not been filed are also numerous. The estimates say that the real share of public procurement is between 12% and 15% of GDP. According to the State Auditor's report, in 2011 alone, various irregularities in public procurement procedures were worth 800m euros, while only 1% of institutions were controlled. As a most obvious example, I'm going to make an example of the ministries. In all ministries, the state auditor was in control and literally no one in the ministry was all right. The state auditor found that almost all ministries had violations in connection with public procurement. What happened? Nothing happened. There was no responsibility. What's even more devastating is that there was no public conviction. On the other hand, workers were out of work. In 2012 alone, I'll remind you, 170,000 workers are out of work. By the nature of things relations and dealing with state money new jobs... I'd like to ask you to seduce the order... by nature, things didn't open up, but that's why the number of those below the poverty line has increased year by year. I ask and ask the question -- what could we do with all the money that went into our private pockets, how many factories could we open, how many new jobs? That's why the least I expected from this law is that the law introduces a criminal liability for all those responsible persons, not just an increase in penalties for violations from 100,000 to millions of dinars. That's why I'm proposing an amendment to Article 75. A law imposing a criminal act in the process of misuse of public procurement. This is necessary in order to comply with the law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, where a new criminal offence is prescribed in the public procurement procedure. The introduction of this crime will sanction certain actions related to the abuse of public procurement and, as such, will be recognised as an independent and particularly criminal act. In my opinion, it is necessary to make a record of all those who have misused public procurement. By nature of things, the records must be made public and available to everyone, because I think that the marking of all those who have committed abuses aims to prevent the action of other participants in the procurement process. The condemnation of the public is prevention, as it can be preventive to predetermin all those critical points that we know in advance, which are in the public procurement process. It is necessary to limit the emergency purchases carried out without making a public call with many more mechanisms. In the past year, such emergency purchases were about eight billion, a huge increase compared to last year when there were about three billion. However, the fact is that in this year, the number of emergency purchases has been quite increased, since it was probably in a hurry before the new law was passed. The proposed law did not reduce unnecessary formalities in the public procurement system, which is causing large funds to be lost. The public procurement process remains too complex. He, in my deep conviction, must be far simpler. In most cases, participants, i.e. public procurement companies, could be exempt from submitting a series of documents or at least those for which central registers exist, since it is unnecessary duplication and unnecessary cost. In order to be completely honest, I must say that the proposed law is one step forward in seducing order in public procurement, in a certain degree of restrictions on corruption and its significant part is an incomparably larger public. However, it is not enough just to pass a good or better law. Other regulations need to be amended, and above all, I mean the Law on Infringements, budget regulations. So it's a very important question of what kind of sublegal acts will be and especially acts that will regulate public procurement planning, that everything and everything is still not bought, to introduce rationality. A little attention is being paid to the procurement plan, which is, they will agree with me, of great importance. An effective judiciary is needed, good and objective work of courts. It takes political will and support for public procurement not to be the place, a means to fund political parties. In order to create an efficient public procurement system, it is also necessary to raise the level of participation of civil society in the formulation, but also to monitor policy enforcement in the area of public finances. We can pass the best possible law, but if it is not consistently applied, it will be just a dead letter on paper, there will be no reduction in corruption, no expected savings. In my view, partly centralised public procurements, which aim to save and control, can have a completely opposite effect, if there is no political will and in the areas of health, rail and education, where the state plays the role of the main supplier and often the bidder where these places can become places for much greater manipulation. Once again, the Public Procurement Act is systemic. Its content, but also its literal application, depends on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, particularly on the degree of borrowing of our country, and thus on the future of Serbian citizens. That is why it is necessary for the proposer, in the interest of all of us, and, above all, in the interest of the Serbian citizens, to show flexibility and responsibility and to correct this law by adopting the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8866	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8867	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the proposed law is important for two reasons. It is a mechanism to prevent corruption and lead to substantial savings in the budget, and the RS will support it in the voting day. The previous Public Procurement Act had a number of shortcomings. In addition to not being in line with EU directives and practices, many procurements were not subject to the law, there were no mechanisms to prevent corruption and conflicts of interest and no arrangements for procurement in the area of defence and security. All of this created a suitable soil for corruption. Of course, in the end, the citizens would pay, because many agreed jobs and supplies of goods were subscribed, much more money was given than was necessary. As much as this was lucrative, it is clear that many companies were created only to participate in public procurement, to get jobs regardless of only 1-2 workers and to stick to the budget as leeches and to draw money. This government is determined to deal with corruption and it shows it every day. In addition, what needs to be discovered and prosecuted for corruption in the previous period, preventive and corruption should be prevented. This law does just that because it establishes mechanisms to prevent corruption and conflicts of interest, as well as its timely detection. This law introduces mandatory public procurement planning, which so far has not been the case, sets out clear procedures for the award of contracts, promotes transparency and competition, reduces the time needed to implement the procedure, prevents unwarranted changes in the contract and establishes a rapid and efficient system of review of the procurement procedure, which is very important, through the granting of special powers to the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights and the Competition Commission. All these measures should lead to the prevention of corruption and conflicts of interest. We do not have the right to treat state money, i.e. citizens' money in such a way that it ends up in private pockets, and that services and goods obtained are subscribed to the damages of citizens. Another important segment of this law is savings and this law creates preconditions for large savings of citizens' money. According to data, the total value of registered public procurement in 2011 was around 293 billion in Serbia, although it is probably higher because many public procurements were not recorded at all. Let this law save at least 10-15%, so that's significant. The money can be used for the benefit of all citizens, to invest in the creation of new jobs, in the development of infrastructure throughout Serbia and for social giving. What is very important to us is the financial discipline that this law allows. When this government and parliament started to work, when the law started to come to us, we saw that the hole in the budget was huge, that there were debts in health of 26 billion, that the state had to pay off debts to builders and tolls, so the debts were on all sides. That way we can no longer act, financial discipline is very important. It has to be saved literally every penny in the budget and this is one good prerequisite for those savings. That this government is determined to stand in the way of corruption also says that the recent changes to the Criminal Code have been introduced and the provision, i.e. abuse in the public procurement process, that this is a criminal offence, which has never existed before. What is very important, we will send this law a good message to potential serious investors and create a favourable investment environment. Every serious investor wants order in the country, wants financial discipline. What's more important to us than opening new jobs? What gives this law additional weight is that it is in line with EU directives, which was a quality public debate, which took part in it by a large number of participants and which is a significant number of suggestions and proposals for adoption. Because of all of this, the URS in voting day will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8868	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8869	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, for the public procurement in Serbia in the previous period unfortunately became a synonym for corruption. This bill really does make some progress, in order to overcome the problem. Some of the solutions provided for in the proposal for this law are really good, but the DSS on a whole series of proposed solutions and on certain groups of members who are here have very serious objections. The Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights by this law is transformed into a specific court with jurisdiction which, according to us, should not stand with the Republic Commission. In fact, it will decide in procedures to protect the right to purchase and lease real estate by state authorities. It will control the implementation of the decisions it makes, which directly enters the DRI's authority. It will impose fines, conduct misdemeanor proceedings, cancel contracts concluded in this procedure, some of these cases have classical jurisdiction, and I remind you that in Serbia the authorities, i.e. the courts for violations, should be involved in this business. Members of the Republic Commission have been given the right to seal the premises and documents of the contracting authorities without a court decision, to take statements. According to us, these actions are provided for by some other legal regulations and given jurisdiction to the state authorities that are supposed to do this. We don't understand why members of the Republic Commission can't be graduate lawyers. I remind you it's one of the jurisdiction and conduct of a misdemeanor procedure. Nowhere in the law can it be seen that the president of the Republic Commission will be appointed, whether on the basis of a contest in line with the government's declared objectives, to join the department, or whether it will be one of the party champions of the ruling coalition. The negotiation process is highly discriminatory on competition. Negotiation by emergency procedure really needs to be reduced to a reasonable extent, but this is the only procedure in which the suspension of the claim for protection of rights is waived. We will have a situation that if the orderer takes action like this, takes some action and one of the bidders complains, the client does not interrupt his activities, but continues to implement the procedure as if nothing had happened and as the finals of the process concludes the contract. The complaining bidder has managed to prove that the tender was against the law, as the only possibility he has of addressing the court and seeking damages in the court proceedings. The bill provides for a significant extension of the cycle of procedures to be conducted without state control and that is not good. It is not known which suppliers are concerned, the public procurement is not known and the value of these purchases is unknown, to be excluded from the application of the Public Procurement Act. The holders of exclusive rights, these are individual parts of the EPS, the Electrical Networks, the distribution of gas, as well as the holders of special rights, such as the area of telecommunications, are in Article 7. Proposal for a law excluded from the application of this law. I remind you, and we point out that the actions are of the highest value, multimillion dollars, even when we speak in euros. It is well known to all of us that, in the previous period, energy suppliers, set up their "daughter" companies to whom they have entrusted their purchases, did not dispute public procurement procedures, and that "daughter" company does not conduct any procedure at all, nor is it known that subcontractors for these companies are engaged. The bill also provides for the appointment of a person from the ranks of prominent experts in the field of public procurement, or for the job to be carried out by an association engaged in public procurement. It's so-called. civil surveillance. This person assumes a significant part of the work that falls under the DRI's direct jurisdiction. It is not clear from the draft laws which are its powers. He informs the state authorities and the public of the observed irregularities. However, as foreseen, he oversees all tenders whose value is greater than a billion dinars. These are serious tenders, serious jobs, but we don't understand how this person who deals with such significant actions will volunteer to do this job, because there is no compensation for his work. No sanctions are provided for if that person unwittingly operates, if he initiates the procedure and stops a particular procedure, and in the end it turns out that he was wrong. We do not understand why the client is not required to publish a procurement plan at the Portal of Public Procurement and on his website. We think that in this way the number of bidders would increase, so that they could in one real time, if they saw what the client put on their website, to better prepare, better prepare, to participate in the process. It is also unclear why the procedure, i.e. the publication of tender documentation and public procurement, is not immediately on the Portal after the adoption of this law. Legal assumptions, that is, there are no obstacles to this. If we have a problem with technical deficiencies in the 21st century, then I don't think that's good. As for Article 94, we believe that it is necessary to specify more precisely the time limit that the orderr is required to determine the bidder and that, instead of the appropriate time limit, that time limit should be maximum for 20 days. The Democratic Party of Serbia has also submitted an amendment to this member. Also around the offerer register is not at all precise. It says here he'll run an organ responsible for the register. What kind of organ is that? Whether it's the Agency for Business Registers or any other body, you can't see from this law. There was talk here about the criminal provisions provided for in this law. We think that they should be sharpened, because certain sanctions are, I can't say very little, but we were even on the idea of proposing criminal responsibility for certain participants in this process, if we really want to act preventively. It may not be the subject of this law, but it is necessary to extend the limitation period from one to three years to initiate the infringement procedure, because we are sure that the DRI and these bodies provided for by this law should be allowed to have sufficient time to initiate a certain procedure and to carry out a quality audit. I repeat, the law offers good solutions, but there are also certain concerns that have come to our attention. That is why the DSS has submitted almost 30 amendments that we are trying to make this process more transparent and that all of this looks much better than it is proposed to prevent public procurement from continuing to be a synonym for corruption in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8870	The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8871	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank the previous speaker for some criticism, but some really have no room. If they were to publish the whole public procurement plan, that is, if the plan was available, it would be one way for the bidders to agree. Those involved in the public procurement process as performers would have the opportunity to negotiate. Then the law just loses its meaning. On the other hand, when it comes to criminal responsibility, yes, there was a practice in Serbia's legislation for a time that criminal provisions were written in a law that was not a Criminal Code. We, I hope, are done with that practice. We only had a few days ago to amend and supplement the Criminal Code, where the abuses in public procurement proceedings finally became a crime. Could it be an obsolescence for a year, two or three, that's a matter we can negotiate about, but we need to stop this practice of having more parallel laws that regulate one matter that needs to be regulated by one special law. In any case, we will carefully consider your amendments and see which according to our estimates are those that will improve the quality of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8872	Thank you. The word is Miroslav Petkovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8873	Mr. Arsic, does that mean the bidders haven't agreed so far? I guess that's why we're changing these provisions. It's really normal for us to put everything on the site, so let them see what actions they will participate in and where they can get a certain job, if this law is applied as planned. As far as criminal-legal provisions are concerned, I didn't even say they should be in this law, but it's a problem that we already have a longer period in this House. First we adopted the budget, then after seven days we discussed the Health Fund, where we put billions and billions of dinars into public debt. Last week, we discussed a Code of Criminal Code that does not contain provisions regarding criminal liability. Of course I didn't think the Public Procurement Act should stand up to these provisions. So there's always this lateness, at least in seven days, but I think it's going to show in practice that it's not good. I urge you once again to seriously consider amendments to the DSS, because our intention is truly very well-intentioned, to correct this law in those segments as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8874	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8875	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the Law on Public Procurement and there is no need to repeat, of course the SPS Parliament Club will support this legislative proposal. Among other things, only as proposings support this legislative proposal. What I want to say at the very beginning is that the first Law on Public Procurement in Serbia came into force in 2002 and suffered numerous changes and additions. The applicable law has been in force since January 2009. What is interesting, both the one and the other legislative proposal, both the current one and the one that came into force in 2002, were brought by an urgent procedure. As one of the essential reasons for the adoption of one and the other legislative proposals was the harmonisation, i.e. the harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation, i.e. the acceleration of the EU accession process. I will agree with the earlier findings, I think the opportunity to settle is missed, to advance the public procurement process in Serbia and to comply with EU legislation when it comes to both the first and second laws. I also think that the practice and experience of implementing these laws must be made, as well as one general assessment of whether problems arised in law enforcement or the lack of law provisions alone, or the problems arised both as a result of law enforcement and in certain bad solutions, when it comes to law enforcement. My personal view is that the changes, when it comes to both the first and second Public Procurement Act, were made ad hoc, in order to adjust the procedures for certain jobs. Such practice has definitely annulled those basic principles, those basic glares and the reasons why the law was passed. When I say such a practice, there was definitely a large number of exceptions to application. Non-transparently, sublawed small-value purchases are regulated. That was also said by the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary club, Mr Radenkovic. They are not well prescribed and somehow previous experiences and changes have contributed to the fact that the law loses its anti-corruption importance and control of public revenue, and especially when it comes to large-scale transactions with significant resources. Someone was just talking about it, and I want to say it again, DRI representatives were controlling 47 subjects. It's a smaller sample than 1%. At the end of last year, supplies of goods and services contrary to the 85 billion dinar law were found. So a pattern that is less than 1% and indeed this data is catastrophic and fragrant. I think of certain provisions of this bill that Mr Radenkovic has spoken enough, but what I want to say is that we have before us a legal proposal that is both systemic and anti-corruption and I would say that it is revolutionary when it comes to this extremely important and important area in Serbia. We believe that the adoption of this legislative proposal will create a better business climate in Serbia, that Serbia will show that it is an institutional state and that neither waste nor the irrational spending of citizens' money will be allowed, as well as that Serbian citizens will know how their money is spent. So this law is a clear message for both international financial institutions and foreign investors, as it shows the determination and determination of the ruling coalition, the government of the Republic of Serbia to regulate and regulate the issue of public procurement. This law is guaranteeing and saving and transparency, better control and discipline, but also more effective sanctioning those who will not respect this law in the coming period. Of course, such a defined law will be an important and important instrument in a continuous, successful and determined fight against corruption. It should contribute to the consolidation of public finances, which is also extremely important. Savings that will be huge will contribute significantly to the realization of the Serbian government's courageous goal of halving the budget deficit. The proposal for a law on public procurement, and that was a matter of few words, is in line with European standards. It is not adopted or considered, as the previous two, by emergency procedure. A quality public debate has been held, which has actually allowed all interested parties to give their suggestions, that all interested parties make their proposals, with which, of course, there is still time for all proposals that will contribute to making this legal proposal even more quality. Today is a debate in principle, and the next days will be a debate in particular. It is important to adopt this legislative proposal, but what is far more important is its application. So one of the most sensitive areas in which corruption degrades, which also threatens the rule of law and social justice, threatens the stability of democratic institutions, is precisely the area of public procurement. That is why it is extremely important to adopt and implement a law that will in a good way regulate this extremely important, important and sensitive area in Serbia. So, by adopting this legislative proposal, we're making a qualitative shift, we're taking a huge step forward in introducing order in public procurement. This proposal, once again, will have the support of the SPS Parliament Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8876	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Your available time is six minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8877	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP in Voting Day will not support the proposed Law on Public Procurement, primarily because of the ambiguity and some contradictions that appear in the bill itself, but also because of the atmosphere in which it is being adopted, i.e. increasing the level of public expectations of this bill. I remind you that individual officials of the ruling SNS bid on the number of million euros this law will save in the coming years. It ranges from 600m euros to one billion euros. If that's true, then we as a state will absolutely solve the problem of our budget deficit. We only adopted the 2013 budget a month ago, where we defined the budget deficit for 2013 as a billion and 200m euros. If it is true that the implementation of the provisions of this law on public procurement will bring those savings from 600m euros to one billion euros, we will in one effective way solve the problem of the budget deficit. Of course, both you and the public know that this is not true, and this is exactly the 2013 budget law that is the best indicator and evidence in the failure of the estimates. Because if that were not the case, the Budget Law would have been passed after this law on public procurement and the amount of money allocated for public procurement in the 2013 budget would have been reduced by this percentage, i.e. the number of representatives of the ruling coalition. Also, the law itself determines that individual bodies dealing with public procurement will be established in 2013 within three to six months. Thus, we can say that in 2013, the entire year has been lost, at least as far as the savings are concerned by the representatives of the ruling coalition. The LDP has submitted several, I think, extremely important amendments to this bill. Although the draft law defines a provision that speaks of preventing corruption and conflict of interest, we in the LDP think that what it says, especially in Article 21, which refers to the protection of alarmers, is not enough. Therefore, the LDP has submitted one amendment, although when we talk about alarming, the LDP believes that our proposal, the Alert Act, is one of the best comprehensive means of preventing revenge against those persons who are alarmers in public enterprises, state institutions or in any other governance body. Our amendment says that the person who points to abuse in the procurement process cannot bear the responsibility, or that it cannot be fired, that his work contract is cancelled or transferred to other jobs. We also have an important amendment relating to the adoption of an internal act that the contracting authority should do in which, among other things, we would define the way of procurement, or the public procurement plan, we think that the contents of this act should be defined by the Government, and that the Public Procurement Administration should only give consent whether this act brought by the contracting authority is in accordance with the act defined by the Government. Also, there are a lot of ambiguities in the bill, so if we talk about an unusual price defined by Article 92. The bill's proposal, it is said, is said to be an unusually low price within the meaning of this law to offer a price which is significantly different from the market price incomparable. We think it's simply too broadly defined in terms of market incomparable price. We have given one amendment that clearly defines what percentage is and we are told that if the offer is 20% lower than the average of all the prices offered, in all submitted tenders in the specific procurement process. We think that this way we can define this one general provision in an effective way. In addition to these proposals, I said that there are a lot of ambiguities in this bill, so already in Article 3 where we define the meaning of the term we have one term "comparable market price" that is defined as the price on the relevant market, so the question here is what is the relevant market. Or, under point 33, it is said – an acceptable offer is a timely offer, which the client did not reject because of significant shortcomings, and that nowhere in the law is later defined what these are important and what are irrelevant shortcomings in one offer. Article 36, and we have already talked a lot about this, is a member who will absolutely enable further corruption in public procurement. We think it is extremely necessary for this member to either be better defined or changed in any way. The LDP, like I said, on Vote Day, will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8878	Irena Vujovic has a National MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8879	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, the Law on Public Procurement is a new important step towards the existing one. It is very detailed and the introduction of newspapers significantly prevents corruption and strengthens competition. A number of measures have been envisaged to mitigate or eliminate existing shortcomings, such as the unwarranted application of the negotiation procedure without publication of a public call, non-transparent small purchases, enforcement of purchases without the application of the Public Procurement Act, although there are no conditions for this. This law extends the powers of the DRI, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Public Procurement Administration and the Commission to protect the rights of the tenderers. Three main and most important steps in implementation, the proper implementation of public procurement are primarily to carry out a proper assessment of the value of public procurement in the procurement plan for the current year, then, to allow maximum transparency of the procedure and to carry out rigorous control of public procurement. It is extremely important to correctly assess the value of public procurement on an annual basis. If the value of public procurement is estimated from ignorance or willfully multiple from the market price, then a space is created for the outflow of funds and the possibility of corruption. In other words, if the estimated value is in line with the market price, no matter how favoured an offeror is, it is impossible to uneyedly spill huge assets. Each individual purchase and its value should contain a procurement plan for the current year, consisting of a public procurement plan and a procurement plan that is not subject to the law. The new law on public procurement sets out in more detail the content of the procurement plan, requires the contracting authority to state the reasons and justification of each individual procurement, the way in which the value is assessed and the way in which market research is examined, as well as the responsibility for planning. The form and content of the procurement plan and the report on its implementation shall be governed by the Public Procurement Administration. The contracting authority is obliged to deliver the plan in electronic form to the Public Procurement and DRI. In particular, the contracting authority shall indicate in the plan if it purchases through centralised procurement bodies. It is partly a newspaper in this law on public procurement and its application also generates significant savings. Centralised procurement is carried out by the Agency for Joint Affairs and in its domain is primarily the purchase of consumer goods, goods that are standardised and services that are repeated and not specific. The plan sets out the provisions of the Public Procurement Act which it does not apply to. So, the paper of this law is the introduction into the legal frameworks of procurement that have not been implemented so far, i.e. without law enforcement, such as purchases financed from foreign loans, purchases and the lease of immovable property, i.e. so on. confidential purchases. The new law significantly increases the public and transparency of the process in relation to the existing one, which automatically increases competition and reduces advertising costs. Only some ads are advertised in the official messenger, while others are on the portal of public procurement and internet stations. Procedures in which there was at least transparency and least competition, since the negotiation procedures are without publication of a public call and the public procurement process of small value. The negotiation process, without publication of a public call, introduces a prior control of the Public Procurement Administration. The orderer is required to ask the Management for an opinion before the negotiation process is launched. Only after a positive opinion has been taken, then the notification of the negotiation process begins. This opinion, only in the case of emergency procurement, is left out, in the case of natural disasters, when we simply don't have time to wait for the Management of Opinions. In addition to inviting at least three bidders, who, according to his knowledge, are able to participate in the procurement, are introduced in the retail procurement process. At the same time, it publishes a call for submission on the public procurement portal and on its internet station. This also enables great transparency, so that bidders have information from the portal and can compete. More flexible procedures, such as competitive dialogue, are also introduced. A dialogue is being conducted with each bidder, it can go into more phases, and when the best solution is found, then public procurement is being conducted, but consent is pending from the Public Procurement Authority. This is also very transparent and can bring great results. Now, increased transparency is also seen in the communication of public procurement employees, as well as in communication between employees and bidders, when simply the whole correspondence is conducted by electronic means or by written means. If there is any space for corruption, it will be recorded. It's also a newspaper of this law and a list of orderers. In addition to a clear definition of the concept of "orderers", i.e. entities that have to apply this law on public procurement, some of them do not adhere to it. Because of this, this list is always available and confidential by all citizens. It's just that citizens can see who these public procurement people are. The new law also introduces the tender register. The APR, i.e. the Agency for Economic Registers, is scheduled to run a tender register, which meets the mandatory conditions for participation in the procedure. This register is updated on a monthly basis, and it makes it easier for both bidders to participate, given that there is no bulky documentation, but that if the client wants to check the bidder, he simply goes to the official APR site. It is also interesting that the new law also lists the reporting of bidders, i.e. if there are many rejected, if almost all are rejected, they have the opportunity to talk to the members of the commission, to see what the reasons for their refusals are and how they came about, to prepare themselves for some of the future tenders. It should be stressed that particularly regulated procurement is in the area of defence and security. They're being conducted as public procurement, which wasn't so transparent before. They are now in the public procurement system, except for some very confidential purchases. So public procurement control doesn't need to be specifically explained. As mentioned above, one of the first measures introduced is the previous control of the Public Procurement Administration, in the event of a negotiation procedure without publication of a public call. In this negotiation process, without public call, or this previous control is required from the Management of Opinions, and it is also similar with competitive dialogue, where consent should be obtained from the Administration and only then to conduct procurements. The new law on public procurement also provides for the obligation of the contracting authority to adopt an act that is closer to determining the procurement procedure, especially when planning procurement and controlling public procurement, monitoring the execution of the contract. The content of this act is determined by the Public Procurement Administration, and the contracting authority where the value of public procurement exceeds a billion dinars per year is obliged to educate a special service for the control of public procurement. In the event that the contracting authority conducts a procurement procedure, which is greater than 700 million dinars, the procedure is required to be carried out by the civil supervisor. It is a person with a social reputation and its appointment closer to the administration of public procurement. It also introduces the protection of people who report corruption, which is very important. They're public procurement employees. If they report corruption in the good faith, they cannot be fired or moved to another workplace. Also, what should be said if the bidder, or the interested person in the public procurement procedure, harms competition, there is a competition protection commission that can prohibit this bidder from participating in the public procurement process up to two years. What needs to be pointed out in particular is that this law tightened the criminal provisions and that the limitation of prosecution for offences was extended to three years from the day of the infringement, which was previously the case up to one year. The Serbian Progressive Party, of course, will positively accept the law in the voting day, will vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8880	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8881	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow MPs, as all predecessors spoke about this law, is that this law is extremely important and one of the most important system laws, because it regulates an extremely sensitive area regarding public spending, which is to control the implementation of public procurement. As we all know, great abuses were in this area. The previous speakers stressed that investments in Serbia were compromised, and that because of this area that was not adequately regulated, investors were deterred, simply by us, because they knew that there was simply corruption in this part of public procurement and because of the complicated procedure and the bureaucratic procedure itself, which has so far been prescribed to participate in public procurement. Because of the importance of this law, the DSS and our MP group have taken this law seriously. We have consulted with persons who work daily under this law, who are experts in this area and we really need to say that there is a positive shift, as regards regulation and regulation in this area. In addition to these positive shifts that we all want them to give concrete good results, we have also seen some failures. That is why we have submitted over 20 amendments, because we want to fix the proposed law and that the law that will be adopted in this House is the most qualitative one at this time that can be passed. I'll point out once again, it's in everyone's best interest to regulate this area as best possible. We'll probably have to talk about this law again for a while, when we see practice, that is. how it is implemented, in the field, in the practice of public procurement. It's just so sensitive, that it's certainly going to have to experience more work, but let's see now and make a contribution at this point we see, that this solution is now as high-quality as possible and I call on the promoter to consider the DSS amendments, because we wanted to improve the proposed law well. Now I'd like to highlight some good solutions that will really contribute to all of this being, this area better regulated. One of them is the public publication of the order list. This is important because it was in practice to be in doubt, which falls under the Public Procurement Act, so it was not clear which are all the contracting entities, which are called and fall under the provisions of this law. Now it will be regulated clearly. What is also important, it is that a smaller formalism was introduced when the offer was rejected by the introduction of the institute, a significant lack of supply. The practice showed that the most favourable offers were often rejected, which were the most favourable at the price or the best quality, because the job orderer refused those offers, calling for some non-essential elements, which is, for example, missing a paraphras somewhere or came in to say that it was manually filled, and it was not electronicly filled documentation. So that's what they used to disqualify those bidders who were the most qualified maybe or the most favourable, simply not responding to the orderer. This will prevent these abuses. The increased transparency of the process, through the obligation to publish competition ads, documentation, on the portal of public procurement, is extremely important. It will lead to savings on the preparation of the offer. They'll also have savings from bidders, they'll be able to download tender documentation, they won't have to buy it, i.e. to pay for it in order to download it, so that we have savings and on the side of the client who will now not have to advertise and advertise, but will only publish it on his website, will be on the portal of public procurement. What's good and what you might point out is that it's a more restrictive definition of the annexed public procurement contracts. The existing law stipulates that 25% of the value can be added subsequently on behalf of additional works. In this bill, it's down to 15%, and we think it's very good. What is also important to point out, an important change that is good is that it must not be more than two years since the original contract is concluded. It happened in practice that the contracts signed 20 years ago were annexed and so it wasn't transparency of public procurement, but only introduced new annex contracts and based on contracts that were even up to 20 years old. I mean the original basic contracts. What is commendable is a lower formality in determining the fulfilment of mandatory conditions for participation by allowing all evidence available on the websites to be acceptable. So, the bidder doesn't have to go and take out those mandatory conditions, collect documentation, whatever is available and what can be visible via the Internet, which is the introduction of this tender register to the Agency for Economic Registers. We think it's very good and it's going to prove to be a good solution in practice. A little skepticism. We hope that, as far as tax administrations are concerned and the availability of tax debtors' debt data, it probably takes time, they have to improve their work and make their databases, so that all the mandatory conditions, and one of the mandatory conditions that the provider needs to deliver, is that it has settled tax obligations, so probably in the beginning, when this law is applied, it will remain an obligation for the bidder to, as old as possible, provide confirmation that he has settled his obligations, and that in the shortest time, the tax administration will have that base, that the part will also be visible publicly, transparently and on the internet. The introduction of a social element in the public procurement process is also commendable. Public procurement is foreseen for those bidders who have persons with disabilities. That's one good thing we want to praise. In addition to the praises that I have made, I would also like to point out some of the provisions that the suns, which have been taken over from the Directive, which apply in some countries and their practice as it has shown, let's say, this is an example of Slovenia, as regards competitive dialogue and the dynamic procurement system, is not easy to use in practice, it leads to confusion. That's why we think it might be better if we had improved some of the existing procedures, because we know we have practice and people who carry out public procurement have already been through it. As you know, all the employees of local self-government and the Republic went through training about it and received certain certificates as best they could carry out and run public procurement. The question now is what we're going to do, whether we're going to restore those certificates, go through training again, have to look for these experiences to see how to implement it because even in the surrounding countries, there's not much. Slovenia has introduced something, and they say it did not give them results. That's one suggestion. Maybe we should have developed an existing one. Some of them, it's open procedure and restructuring procedure. Maybe it was better if we developed it, but that's where we responded with the amendment. We hope you'll accept, because it's indeed one good intention. In addition, there are some provisions that are very modern and there is a good intention to prevent corruption. That's where I mean the anti-corruption and conflict-of-interest section. I'd like to ask the promoter to explain. We didn't understand how this was going to happen? We think it's going to be very difficult. I'll quote a member of the law, it's a member of the 25th proposed law: A ban on employment. A member of the Management Supervisory Board, a responsible person, a contracting authority or an employee in public procurement activities, or his spouse, an out-of-marriage friend, a relative such as his brother from his aunt, sister-in-law, son-in-law, a Tasby kinship to the second degree, and a blood to the third degree, cannot be employed by any legal person to whom the minimum public procurement work has been awarded by that contracting authority. This is the amount of 5% of the contract concluded during that period, which may include the smallest job supplied to the order. And that's over a period of two years prior to the end of function. Imagine how difficult this is going to be, let's say, in small places and environments, where people are connected, where you have a small number of firms that can report. There's not a lot of people who are job-orderers. I understand that was a good intention, but I don't know how this is gonna be regulated. For the sake of time, I'm gonna cut it short now, but in short. First, how will this third degree of blood related be proved? It's going to be very difficult for the organ to carry out. It'll take a lot of people to prove it. That's all we wanted to point out. Second, he can create a dilemma in some smaller places. I won't be long for time, there are some other things we wanted to point out, which will be pointed out by my colleagues, and we'll talk about in particular. We really wanted to improve this law. We would like to ask the Proposer, i.e. The government gives the results that are planned, which is to save from 600 million to a billion dinars. I hope we have some report on how much savings we've been saving, so we can just talk about how much this has actually produced. So, should we change this law, do we have something after this law has been passed, that some of the provisions could not have been ruled out, that we could get as much savings as possible, and that indeed in Serbia this area would have been better regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8882	Thank you. The following is MP Ivan Jokovic, but he is not there, so the word of the international MP Petar Petkovic is not there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8883	Dear ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, depending on how the amendments submitted by the DSS will be treated, it will depend on whether we vote in favour of this bill. It should be said to be an improvement, but we believe that the amendments we have made to that law can be even better. Here I will specifically talk about the three problems that are the subject of our amendments and that, by accepting these amendments, we, especially when it comes to fighting corruption and the mechanisms that would exist in this bill, would therefore help the state and the public companies in general function much better. First, I want to say that the introduction of two new procedures, when it comes first of all to the framework agreement and the competitive dialogue, is unnecessary. This is about the procedures prescribed from the EU experience, and I will give you an example of Slovenia, where it has been shown that from the moment these two new procedures were introduced six years ago, difficult problems have arisen. This is primarily said by people who are engaged in implementing public procurement laws in Slovenia. There are indications that not all experiences from the EU are good and that they are simply copied and inserted into our country's normative system. In this way, as you have stated here, by introducing these two new procedures, what is particularly important to point out is that basic institutes are primarily being questioned and, above all, the provision of competition and the protection of the equality of bidders. For example, if the client is looking for bidders to build a bridge, it cannot be done, because it is a very complex project, until the end, it is unfathomable to determine which bidder is the most competitive, the best quality and when it comes to the price and when it comes to its expertise. Another burning problem, which I would like to point out, is the issue of controlling the emergency negotiation process. According to the bill's proposal, the share of the negotiation process is about 31% of the total purchases. It also states that such a share is unacceptable to the state. When we talk about the negotiating process, it should be said that 20% in the context of the negotiation process is a negotiation of urgency. It's that gray zone where the light should be entered. It is an amendment submitted by the DSS, because when it comes to the emergency negotiation procedure, you have a derogation from the suspension, the fact of the claim for protection of rights. What does that mean? The client initiates the procedure, if one of the bidders later complains, because he realizes that the tender has been set up, he can actually do nothing else, because it is a procedure that goes by urgency and the client goes to the end of this procedure. After the offerer can appeal to the courts, but experience shows that they do not complain, because it is a process that takes years, and it needs work and must deal with what it lives on. It is therefore very important to define what it means to negotiate an emergency procedure. Therefore, the DSS submitted an amendment saying it is necessary, when it comes to an emergency procedure, to give a positive opinion to the Public Procurement Authority within 24 hours. Of course, there must be such a procedure, especially when it comes to hand-me-downs and when it comes to elemental disasters. In the end, I want to say something about holders of exclusive rights, as it stands in this bill, I mean, first of all, Telecom, he is excluded from the provisions of this law. To clarify, the DSS launched a petition a few years ago and in public raised a big vote to preserve Telecom and that it should become a state firm and a company. However, here in this bill, it states that Telecom is exempt from the provisions of this law, if there is competition. The RATEL reports show that there is a monopoly. I don't mind that Telecom business, that's fine. In principle, we are talking here, if we want to put order into public procurement, we must, and when it comes to Telecom, because it is the purchases of millions of euros for expensive equipment when it comes to electronic communications. It is therefore very important that one of the contracting authorities within or within the meaning of the provisions of this law be also Telecom, that it must not be excluded. Because it's a takeover where the state is a majority owner. She has to be the one to control that kind of money when it comes to a company like this. There are huge resources, and that is why the state must not observe what is happening here, because in such large procurement we have a source of corruption, which represented the cancer of this society's wounds. So to conclude, fighting corruption is a state and national issue. This bill goes that way to curb crime and corruption. We have clearly said that the DSS supports the fight and all that is to preserve state and national interests. It will also support this bill if you accept our amendments, which are friendly amendments, which are to achieve the objective of this bill that lies ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8884	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. He's not here. The word is made by MP Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8885	Thank you. Dear Vice President, dear fellow MPs, I am truly pleased that today we have the opportunity to take part in a debate on such an important law, which is one of the most important system laws for our country. I would remind Serbian citizens that last year, in February, the SNS sent a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Procurement, wishing at that time to show that even when there was a major economic crisis and there was a serious lack of funds in the country, something could be done to save them and to provide some funds. The government, which today says it would support the law, possibly with some serious changes and amendments, was not ready to even discuss these proposed amendments and additions in this House. In no way have we been able to reach them and realize how important this law is, not only for saving but also for fighting corruption, at all increasing competitiveness and in any way relaxing the market conditions of business and what can improve the economic environment and investment environment in Serbia. So there was no will then. It is good that we have come to the situation that today's political elite and the ruling majority will not only talk, but also in a concrete way to improve business in Serbia and above all in a system way and normative way to deal with corruption, especially when it comes to public procurement. Public procurement is an important segment of public spending. In order for you to spend your public funds effectively and successfully, you need to get the best possible value for the money you give, and that is why the public procurement system is so important. Possible savings, all of which were spoken seriously, taking into account everything taken into account in statistics, not only from the EU, but mainly from EU countries and dialogue with the European Commission, SIGMO, Tvining has lasted long for partners, and therefore this law came into the process somewhat later than anticipated. Because of the serious analyses that have suggested to save the use of such mechanisms, which are provided for in the Public Procurement Act proposal, it can indeed bring savings of almost 2% of GDP. In translation, it means, as most MPs and colleagues have said, about 600m euros annually. Considering that this would be direct savings, which would mean that the state does not have to borrow for those 600m euros neither from international partners nor from commercial banks. If we take into account the reduction in interest costs and all the costs of borrowing, it is a figure that could go up to almost a billion euros a year and that is an important component of this law. It is not a single good thing and the only benefit of a new law, or a proposal for a law on public procurement. Another very important thing is the mechanisms of control in public procurement procedures that, in a direct way, regulate and reduce the possibility of corruption in these procedures that should be standardised, but which in Serbia are a major problem of source of systemic corruption. Among other things, there is a mechanism to control the implementation of the negotiation procedure without public call, a mechanism to prevent conflicts of interest and corruption in public procurement. These are mechanisms that are not foreseen in any way by the current law. I would also single out an integrity agreement that prevents agreements between large bidders, as well as a citizen supervisor from controlling these large public procurements, which annually has between 35 and 40 public procurements in Serbia. At the same time, the Public Procurement Act, it seems to me that this is not mentioned, and it is very important that the terms and deadlines for the conclusion of the contract are prescribed. Anyone who deals with this topic must know very often that from the moment of the choice of the most favourable offer, three and more months have passed until the conclusion of the contract, and these are huge costs, which go on the burden of the bidder and compromise the public procurement process itself. What is also important, and what I don't think is mentioned, are public procurement from the field of defence and security. It is very important to stress, given that it is very often about the purchases that have the mark strictly confidential, they are completely non-transparent and we have no insight into the way they are carried out, it is important to stress that some key parameters based on which we can share these public procurements in the defence and security sector, which serve for the purposes of service and security of the military itself and which are defined as those classic purchases, as something that is part of the current equipment, some parts of military equipment that can be protected in part and very clearly defined what these are purchases that really have a mark of confidentiality and which can be excluded from the application of this law. We know it's important, given that some of the biggest affairs have just been "Satellite" and "Pancer" affairs in the past. In order to prevent this, it is certainly important to establish at least an elementary categorisation of confidential purchases. It is also very important to ask whether and how much procurement in the area of defence and security, therefore, for the purposes of security services, the military etc., are financed from public funds, those funds controlled by the state, and how much from the budget funds intended for that type of procurement. I can also say that as a committee, since we are talking about civilian security and defence services control in Serbia, and as a Security Services Control Committee, we will certainly co-operate with the DRI, which should have an interest in controlling this type of procurement in the defence system and security services. This will, among other things, be the subject of one of the meetings, I think that tomorrow at the Committee's session, we will discuss how DRI will be able to help Parliament have that kind of information about the legality of spending and in general public procurement from this important segment. Also, just a few more things that I don't think have been mentioned enough, although indeed colleagues have been working through the bill quite in detail. It's about partial centralization. This partial centralisation means that, in fact, the state authorities do not obtain individual and separate goods, services, etc., which are constantly repeated, because it sums up costs to a large extent, and certainly it is an interest to lower them. We're talking, first of all, about the authorities of the state administration. It's important that the citizens know. There can be very significant savings. The third thing that is important and to be pointed out is the question of competition, which is better regulated by such a bill. I found information that since 2003, the constant drop in the number of bidders has been on public procurement. In 2003 it was 8.5 on average, and in 2010, it was 3.5. This is a drastic decline in the number of bidders in public procurement, i.e. in the public procurement process, and in the EU the average is 5.4. Therefore, the cause is not only the economic crisis, the cause is not only this lack of transparency and uncertainty of the collection of claims, which is also a very big problem in Serbia, so small and medium-sized enterprises very often appear only as subcontractors of large companies, thereby reducing the number of bidders, or reducing competition, while at the same time increasing the price itself. There are also contract providers, as well as high costs of the procedure. That's also the thing that this bill can do better than that, and the mechanisms that exist for it are, I think, very good. Of course, practice will show and it is always a practice that shows how good the law is, but practice depends on political will, and political will exists at this point anyway. I expect that since April of the month, when the real results of this law begin to be seen, the law will be applied, given that until then, the commission, the staff of the Commission for the Protection of the Providers, as well as the Public Procurement Administration, will have to be chosen and must certainly be the most professional, responsible and serious people. It's also very important to emphasize. I would just go back to one more question, which is – how much does public procurement cost in the first place and how effective are they? In the EU, this is also the data that we can find, 1.4% of the funds for purchases is the cost of costing the public procurement process. I don't know what it's like in Serbia, but certainly the costs of the procurement process are also high and, as I explained earlier, also reduce competition and increase price. The only way I understand it, and I'm not an economist, to predict this law, is to actually build up procurement in a certain way, a partial centralisation, which will not allow bidders and will not prevent smaller and medium bidders from participating in the procedure itself, but also that it is very important to hire professional, capable people, who will be in the commission and members of the Public Procurement Commission. I believe it would be very productive to reward all the members of the Commission who make public procurement that has brought concrete savings to a state body, public enterprise or anyone who spends our resources, resources from citizens, budgets. These are things that everybody knows, which are pretty clear, which is why it's important to discuss. Will any opposition party vote in favour of the public procurement bill if their amendments are adopted? I find that rather politically irresponsible, of course, it is a legitimate way and should be submitted to the amendments. I believe that any amendment that makes sense and that will improve the possibility of this law being applied in practice and bringing concrete benefits to our country will be adopted by the ruling majority and all of us in parliament, but also conditioning and thus limiting the essence and importance of this law, I think it is politically irresponsible and I think it is political. I'm sure it doesn't show any good will for things to be done institutionally. The law can be improved, but this law is much better than the previous one. This law opens in many ways what everyone in Serbia today seems to me, from the opposition to the rebellion, which is that there is no systematic way to fight corruption. I don't see a better system way than the public procurement bill, for starters, and then, I really don't think there's a need to discuss it, perhaps possibly about some additions that can improve it. I repeat, I believe that this majority in the Assembly will adopt any amendment that really significantly promotes the procurement process and contributes to one normative arrangement of public procurement and institutional prevention of the fight against corruption and crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8886	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8887	Thank you. Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, the Law on Public Procurement, which was adopted in December 2008, and entered into force in January 2009, served alongside, for example, the Law on Planning and Construction as a tool for systematic legalisation of corruption. The changes that were then made in relation to the 2002 law did not bring any shift. Moreover, they represented a step backwards in the area of public procurement, and the state showed weaknesses through many irregularities, shortcomings and made it possible for many law enforcement officers to interpret the law for their own benefit and for the benefit of the citizens and the budget of Serbia. For these very reasons, it was not possible to propose amendments and additions to the existing law, but rather a completely new text of the Public Procurement Bill was drawn up. The public debate and consultation of the working group on the drafting of the text of the Public Procurement Act was a kind of precedent. Never before has so many publicities been involved in the adoption of one bill. A large number of institutions, companies, experts and many others have been consulted to contribute to the drafting of the text of the law. Everyone was able to make suggestions and remarks, and it's all set out in the bill that's in front of us today. The criticisms that are now coming to this bill, on the grounds that the text is good, but that it is suspected of its consistent implementation, I think they represent false morality and self-projection of those who have mostly tailored laws in accordance with their needs. As far as the text of the law itself is concerned, I will list a few clear examples that point to progress in relation to the existing law. Article 20. The proposal for a law on public procurement is prescribed for communication in the procurement process and in relation to the business of public procurement. The proposal provides for this communication to be carried out exclusively by written means, by mail, fax or e-mail, which means that those who supply the offer and those who make the offer should not come into contact, and corruption through e-mail or fax, you will agree, is not quite possible, and would certainly leave a mark. Also, what the law further prescribes is that one who was in any way involved in the planning of the offer or had insight into the content of the offer cannot participate in public procurement. The large role in preventing these examples from being cited by alarmers, those who have an obligation to report any possible corrupting action, and their operation in this direction is particularly protected. Finally, what would have led to the special newspaper that passed this bill is the abolition of the annex. Just giving the possibility to sign an annex was one of the legal basis for implementing corruption, which in practice meant that the offer that was most favourable or cheapest in the tender, if the annex was to be signed during the realization, was often becoming the most expensive, because the annexes raised the value of the contracted procurement or the execution of the works agreed on by the original contract. In this way there has been direct abuse, because why are public calls and tenders, if during the course of the realization, the value of these procurements is changed. In the end, I must say, I am very proud that this law is before us today. This is a law that we have represented to the citizens of Serbia on various sides of Belgrade and Serbia, and we have talked about how much abuse there is in the already existing law and what the new Public Procurement Act is about. I am pleased that the citizens of Serbia can see for themselves the consistency of SNS policy, and that some claim to have lost weight about the adoption of this law and that we no longer announce it with as much ferocity as we did in the campaign, I would like to say that only the implementation of this law will be what we will be particularly proud of. Don't worry, we're aware that every possible mistake we make is your chance, but you won't get that chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8888	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8889	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, in the first place, I must say that the DHSS has always advocated fighting corruption and, ultimately, it is one of its programme objectives. As regards the proposal for a law on public procurement, I consider this to be one of the overarching text of the law, which pays the most attention to the provisions which regulate and prevent corruption, as well as the taking of measures implemented in that direction. I think the aim of this bill should be to improve the public procurement system in the Republic of Serbia. On the one hand, the contracting authorities are obliged here to provide and to ensure the economic spending of funds from the budget, with strict respect for the form and publicity of the public, the competent state authorities of each stage in the procurement process and to prevent conflicts of interest, and on the other hand, to contribute to the achievement of one constitutional principle and a single market. I think that this intensity is difficult to achieve through this proposal for a law on public procurement, given the insufficient powers, competences and capacity of the contracting authorities, while, on the other hand, the contracting authorities are forced by a number of obligations. The text of the law is embodied by the idea of putting under the bat of the contracting authorities, by the Public Procurement Administration, the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights and the DRI, as well as by the public, so it is only a matter of public procurement and what is the subject of this regulation. The question is how many successful procedures will be carried out and to strike a balance between those bodies that control the procedure, interested persons for the conclusion of the contract and persons who carry out the procedure, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to enable the acquisition of goods, conditions or works under those most favourable conditions and in the requested quality. The bill also provides for extensive preparatory actions, so that the contracting authorities can organise public procurement activities in general, which is also the personnel, technical and organisational changes in the contracting authorities. The procedure itself is strictly formal, and with various consents, opinions and approvals being imposed, which are required by the contracting authorities to obtain, the question is whether this will achieve a system of improvement of public procurement in the Republic of Serbia. The obligation to adopt an internal act is regulated, which will be closer to regulating the procurement procedure, with the content of which being determined by the Public Procurement Administration, thereby directly affecting the internal organisation of the contracting authorities. It is also provided for the obligation of the contracting authorities to educate a special service that will carry out and control the planning, implementation and execution of public procurement, provided that the total value of public procurement at an annual level exceeds a billion dinars. Extending the capacity of the contracting authorities is necessary, so that they can meet all their legal obligations. Also, if the total value of public procurement at an annual level exceeds a billion dinars, then the contracting officer is obliged to adopt an internal plan to prevent corruption in public procurement. Article 11 of this proposal for a law on public procurement provides that contracting authorities are obliged to provide the public and transparency of the procurement procedure, respecting but not limited to the obligations of this law only. It also provides for the obligation of the contracting authorities to apply electronic procurement, which includes the obligation to establish an information system. Article 111 of this proposal provides for a notification by the Commission of the tendering procedure. In one word, this procedure itself is overloaded by a series of mandatory actions, which will definitely in practice, inevitably, make the contract award process difficult, and the goal is to just improve the public procurement system through the rational spending of funds from the budget, not the burden of the procedure itself. At the same time, powers of competence and capacity have been extended, above all, public procurement administrations, from law enforcement to the adoption of sublegal acts, a list of negative references, application for protection of rights, co-operation with foreign institutions, to other businesses. The authority that does not carry out the procurement procedure, which has the powers of the control, or supervisory authority, or even the lawmaker, thus indirectly brings it. In this way, such a bill creates an extremely bulky apparatus in the public procurement system, which is primarily composed of bodies that control procedures and without active participation in the processes and without any responsibility in relation to the procedures themselves. It is also intended that the procedure should be supervised by the citizen supervisor, and that, if the contracting authority implements the procurement procedure, whose estimated value is greater than a billion dinars, and the conditions and criteria for the appointment and mode of work are governed by the Administration, which means that the person may be placed out of its ranks, which, again, extends the powers of this authority. Part of the law dedicated to the Public Procurement Administration is a state body with extremely large restrictions. In the end, this whole text of the law is permeated by the various controls of the contracting authorities, the new obligations that the contracting authorities are obliged to fulfil, while taking full responsibility for the legality of the procedure by the contracting authorities, while also extending the powers and competences of the authorities that supervise these procedures, which are the Public Procurement Authority, the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights and the DRI. In this regard, I believe that it has not been improved a bit, by such a bill, by the position of the contracting authorities, as well as by the position of the bidders, which is necessary precisely to achieve the objectives of such a bill, which is actually a system of promotion of public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8890	The word is Alexander Antic, but it's not there. The People's Messenger Sinisha Lazic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8891	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, instead of examining the shortcomings of the existing law, and adequately and effectively regulate situations that have not been regulated so far, the new law further complicates and unnecessarily harmonizes the public procurement procedure. There is no need to further complicate the public procurement process with extensive and unnecessary documentation, which will result in huge work and burying of documentation, which has no effect in terms of savings. Especially with an orderer who has a large number of small purchases during the year. He is afraid that the law will be a distraction in the regular business of the contracting authorities, because such a bill is largely far from real life and real situations and problems faced by contracting authorities in public procurement procedures. The law provides for a large number of provisions in order to protect them from corruption. The question of the enforceability of these provisions and the possibility of proving facts in certain situations. The proposed legal provisions can be very easy to result in the congestion of applications and the inability to prove, which will ultimately have no effect. I will refer only to some of the remarks made in the proposal for this law. Article 16 paragraph 1 point 3 – the supplier’s records, as a special document, are unnecessary. The same information contains a report from the Public Procurement Administration. Otherwise, it is unnecessary to record all actions and acts if all documents are kept in the archive for at least 10 years. Article 24 does not provide for any sanctions against persons applying against any corruption activities, provided that the alleged reports are unfounded or malicious. For example, the applicant is a member of another political party, the director has not given him a raise or has not promoted him. Under these provisions, anyone can report that there has been corruption in the procurement process, without any consequences, and this can stop the process and damage to the client. Article 25 provides that a representative of the contracting authority involved in the procurement process and related persons cannot be employed by the supplier within two years of the termination of a working relationship or function, and does not provide for legal consequences, that is to say, corruption if the representatives of the contracting entity or the related person engage the supplier on another basis during the duration of the working relationship or the function of the responsible person in the contracting entity. Article 27, the question arises – what if a person is the owner or co-owner of several companies that simultaneously perform in the same public procurement? How do you stop making deals with yourself? Public procurement is transparent procedures, available to the public how to treat the conversation between suppliers regarding public procurement, without arrangements and how an interested person, acting securely and in good faith, can notice such a difference? What if an interested person is not safe and has filed a report in good faith? Article 39(1) and (2) The bill provides for a small purchase of 400 to 3 million dinars. The member is in collegiate with the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, which is Article 4(2). – prescribes a public purchase of small value for between 349 thousand dinars and 3 million 493 thousand dinars. Article 39. – Small value procurement procedures are carried out by public procurement services. It's not clear. Whether I am an employee without an education commission or an employee should be a member of the Public Procurement Commission. The publication of calls in small purchases on the home page is unnecessary. The negative side of publication is that any person can apply, including one that is not able to make the purchase, which is known in local areas and which may cause damage to the customer because of the re-scheduling of the purchase. Article 3 paragraph 1 point 33 of the Law proposal – the acceptance of an offer defines that offer that does not exceed the estimated value of public procurement among other things. This provision of the bill is in conflict with Article 107(4), which provides that an open procedure may award a contract if the price offered is higher than the estimated price and is not higher than the comparable market price. It is undefined that the market price is comparable because the market price is not a permanent category and the meaning of the law and the conclusion of the contract with the bidder which offers the lowest price in identical conditions. It is not in the interest of the contracting authorities to cancel the procurement if the correct offer exceeds the estimated value, e.g. five dinars on condition that the contracting authority has the means and that such an offer is acceptable according to its assessment. The new law should contain a provision which provides that the contracting authority may accept the correct offer that exceeds the estimated value of public procurement, possibly in some percentage, for example in 10 or 20%, because if the correct offer exceeds minor amounts in relation to the estimated value, public procurement must be annulled for a formal reason. That's when the damage comes back to the client. Article 61(4), point (8) - the cost formula of the preparatory offer is unnecessary. Article 63. – it is unnecessary to publish the deadline for extending the time limit on the website. It's enough on the portal and e-mailing the persons who have downloaded the competitive documentation. Article 85. – when the criteria for selecting the most favourable offer is the lower price, it is necessary to define the possibility of sub-criteria in situations where there are two offers with the same prices as the lowest. The proposal did not regulate what happened to the supply of goods, e.g. fuel, where the RS government regulates prices, i.e. with the executioner concluding a public procurement contract. What is the purpose of implementing the procurement procedure in this case if the contracted fuel price is not respected? This is for most customers a large purchase, implementation deadlines are long, and when delivering fuel, the bidder with which the contract is concluded respects the agreed price. The procurement of such goods should not be subject to the Public Procurement Act. The draft law does not define public procurements which are subject to successive delivery of goods or services throughout the year, such as building materials, electrical materials, office materials, consumable materials and similar to the applicability of the price of goods or services. If a contract with the bidder is concluded in January on the basis of a procedure in which the lowest price offered is the minimum, what price is applied in September or December of that year if prices are changed on the market? Article 90 of the proposal provides for a period of validity of an offer which cannot be less than 30 days and the contract is completed by the end of the year. What happens if the electoral bidder accepts to keep the agreed price? Does this mean that every time the market price of goods and services that are the subject of public procurement is changed, the contracting authority must conduct public procurement? The bill did not define the supply situation of goods, e.g. protective equipment, which must be treated as a major procurement that we have divided into parties because of the same goods. For some parties, procurement must take place at the beginning of the year, e.g. shoes and clothing, and for other good purchases of winter protective equipment. The procurement should be carried out only in September or October of the current year. What about the agreed price if the supply of goods is carried out in different time periods during the year? The question of the purchase of spare parts is not resolved which is characteristic that because of the uncertainty of the purchase we cannot predict which parts will be needed to purchase during the year? How and from whom do you obtain parts that are not covered by the tender? It is in the interest of the client that the selected bidder be as territorial as possible, best from the same place because of the speed of delivery, as well as because of the purchase of exactly the necessary spare part, which is not possible if the selected provider is from remote places, so by telephone the success of the spare parts is wrong, this will lead to the right situation. Most of the customers in their fleet have older vehicle models and it is not possible to determine the exact catalogical numbers of all spare parts, so the purchase of certain parts gives a descriptive identification. How do you implement this without respecting Article 12? The principle of equality of bidders – there are exceptions that need to be provided for specific provisions in the law and adapted to real life in order to avoid damage to the contracting authorities. These are just some elements of life's affairs and the sustainability of the law. This practice of establishing a whole new beginning of something, let's just let's just let it go once and make an analysis of the existing, that what's not right and put it in and fix things. This is how we get into a situation where this is how the law puts some other laws out of force and implements itself to inapplicability. Finally, the key question – what does article 7 predict regarding local self-government? What happens to local self-governments that are the founders of their public utility companies? What happens to the identified bidders defined by the RS government? Will public utility companies conduct public procurement? How's he gonna carry it out? Will they have conducted public procurement by the government of RS? These are some questions about life and functioning on the ground. Marketing in terms of the adoption of the Public Procurement Act has some political weight in the way political representatives of certain political parties act. What about when you're facing the field of life, when you're supposed to react to things, make some decisions, when there's something urgent to be done, and you're dealing with the procedure you're predicting here, you're not regulated by any other things? What about the Vendor Protection Department? What if she doesn't react? What happens when the board shuts up? What is it when you have six months of silence from the Board of Appeals, and you have the seasonal character of construction works where you need to do something? What's going on with that? Then we say it's all legal. Is it just because everything is legal and we haven't done any work that was in the interest of the local community or the state that we have the right to do so? I really think that some of these remarks that I've made here are being analyzed, you're installing something law, you're fixing it, and that's how we all make our lives easier. Don't think that the effects of this are measurable under the fissure of the fight against corruption and transparency. This will be news for three days in the media that we have passed the Law on Public Procurement, that everything will be more transparent and that we will save a few million euros and that on this basis we will get political points, and the results of the effects of this law will be analysed in some future period and then we will come into a situation to realize that the law was not good. The fact that we're going to figure out for a while that the law wasn't right, we can't put time back, society won't benefit from it, and that's how we all lost it together. I really ask the representatives of the promoters that some of the things you think are reasonable that they will fix the law install it in this bill and thus simplify your life to those who do this work first. The point here is to protect the client, not the supplier. It's a completely reverse process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8892	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8893	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that when the law enters application, it may show certain shortcomings. I listened to my colleague who spoke before me, I know he's a great public procurement expert. So I ask myself one question, and to him, how can you put those things that are the subject of a contract into law? Should a public procurement procedure be conducted when the fuel is collected? If you are a serious man and seriously manage certain bodies, we are telling him – pay up front, because based on the positions you have, which are defined for the purchase of fuel, let's say, predict how much it takes, schedule public procurement, pay for the fuel, spend it. What do you have to do with the fuel he's gonna collect? You have absolutely nothing to do with it. For example, this is regulated by a contract that is concluded under the procedure. Those other things of life, when it comes to the law, we are aware that when the law enters into application and shows certain shortcomings, we are ready to repair and exploit it. As for the silence of the administration, there is another law that regulates it, which is the Law of Administrative Procedure, so it is known what is done when it comes to the silence of the administration. It is also a signal to us here in the Serbian Parliament that an organ is not doing its job properly, so we will very easily clear up with those who run that organ. We can't predict whether someone's going to do their job or not to frame it in the law. If he's doing it right, fine. If it does not work, it is for those who exercise power to take certain actions to bring the organ into operation as it should. When it comes to local self-government, exceptions, I would just like to remind myself that it is now the first time that this possibility of local self-government is being joined and carried out by public procurement procedures. Is that going to have any effect? Of course he will. I come from a district that has eight municipalities, and it has 193,000 voters. There are 10, 12, 14, 15 thousand people living in some municipalities. Imagine what problems those problems have to carry out one public procurement, say, to pave the way for one or two streets and how much more expensive it will be because the small areas that are being done are, but by the unit of the price measures are high. In this way we tried to influence, through legislation, to facilitate these small municipalities getting goods and services at lower prices than it is now. I think this bill is a far better solution than the law that was in 2008. I can tell you that in that law since 2008, which has been in force so far, all these problems, or most of these problems, have not been regulated by that law at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8894	The word has the People's Messenger Siniša Lazic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8895	Dear Sir Arsic, I may not be an expert in public procurement, but unlike many today's members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I have done something in my life and I have some experience. I've met with public procurement problems many times. What it is for the economy and the people who work here interestingly is that in this country for 20 years, every year, you have new rules for the economy to work on. Twenty years you've been facing that there are no rules to the game. I didn't tell you to pass the new law. I said to run an analysis and eliminate what's wrong, to install what's right and what's life-sustaining and what makes sense. That's what I'm talking about. I'm not talking about legal-formal procedure, I'm talking about what's sustainable on the ground and how some things are implemented and how life is going on. I'll ask you -- why hasn't anyone in this country called in public procurement for road maintenance in Serbia since 1998? Why didn't anyone do it? Was there a right to work or companies being bought through the privatisation process in Serbia? These are the questions I need here to answer. If we're already talking about fighting and we want to make things better, let's get rid of those things that aren't good and that gave negative results. What's the consequence? Bad road maintenance. What's the consequence? Bad housing building. Those are the results. That we are in a position to devastate the profession, engineering and all that this society needs. That's what I'm talking about. I'm not talking about whether I'm competent or professional in a legal act, but I just pointed out what it means for someone who shows up on public procurement or who wants to apply for a job that bids the state or which state offers. Unfortunately, the biggest investor in this country is the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8896	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8897	All right. When you've touched the stories of travel companies and the maintenance of roads, read only a small newspaper about ten days ago. Who bought these companies? Who was he protecting when he was buying these public enterprises, the toll companies? What happened to these travel companies a dozen years back? Are there any more? What about their mechanisms? What about their equipment? What about the broken contracts between the people who made the privatisation and the state? Where are the loans while the one who privatized was in charge of these companies, and then returned them to the state in charge? Should I mention the name and the last name? I'll say, it's no problem. Mr. Miskovic. It's the beginning of what's going to be revealed and what's going on. We created a monopoliest on the market. That was during the DS government. That's not what SNS was involved in. When you ask those questions, think about the answer. As far as expertise and life issues are concerned, we can open that story up, but I still don't want to break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8898	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Siniša Lazic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8899	I made it perfectly clear that we should determine whether there was a privatisation process in Serbia or whether there was a right to work in Serbia. So I was very clear and very exact about it. As for the set of laws, this set that was brought in from the economy the other day, which is what we need to pass today, which is the law on public procurement. I suggest that Minister Dinkic, after giving so many good legal solutions, take over one of the national companies and let the applicability and sustainability of all of this take place on the ground. Get him out of the realm of economic theory into real life. If it works, Sartid, Galenika, JAT, any company, run it. Here, let the Energy Minister go to the EPS and prove that everything you bring here, some financial result, a balance, shows that it's applicable, that it's sustainable. It'll be good for the whole nation. It has nothing to do with other things, but from the domain of theory to practice. This whole discussion is based on it. Go to the field. Do it. Take over a company. Don't be a maintenance officer in the government of the Republic of Serbia for 20 years. Let someone from the government take that system and prove it's sustainable and show that it's a set of laws, and about public procurement, and a set of economic laws, and a set of tax laws, applicable and say, "Here, I've made a successful company, and there's something behind me." Someone's editing the system, and he hasn't had a real life encounter. That's what I'm talking about. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8900	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8901	Are you defending Miskovic? He's 20 and a change of years in the economy. Do you think he's just as capable of making all that under the law? Shall we talk about electricity? Inequity is 45 billion dinars. They were so good to you experts who ran the power industry. This is where you attacked a man who accepted to run a company that was in trouble, who wants to fight to solve problems, you attack him to commit abuse, and he didn't cause problems in the company. Don't say that. This law has not been written by someone who has never dealt with administration, who has never dealt with legislation, who in the end has never dealt with these problems that you're talking about. This law is a working group where people who have participated so many times in public procurement procedures, who have signalled that the Public Procurement Act is not valid and through these remarks it has been translated into this law. I certainly think that this law is a step forward towards regulating the public procurement system and putting under control those who spend money on Serbian citizens. Certainly a much bigger step than that 2008 Public Procurement Act that led to all these problems. Now imagine what it looks like someone gets a job and 25% of the contracted price, before the works annex the contract, just because his offer by 2-3% was lower than the others, and then he's more expensive by 25% than everyone else. That's what your law allowed. It's gone. It was an abuse, a legitimate abuse, to make things worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8902	Thank you. Replic on behalf of the parliamentary group, Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8903	A previous speaker cited Mr Dinkic's example, wishing to point out that serious state decisions cannot be made by people who have not done something big, smart, and something that will recommend them to make such decisions and make such decisions. I absolutely support that it's a very important practice for all those who make important decisions for the state, but I think it's a bad example. The MP group and the party from which one of the previous speakers has come to criticise the story of "Fiyat", and today we see that next year's biggest confidant, exports to our countries, is precisely "Fiat". Also, I'd like to mention the results when bringing in "Jure", "Beneton" and similar companies. I would mention the results when running public finances from 2003 to 2006 and certainly what we expect and where Mr Dinkic will show his professional knowledge in the coming period is just the introduction of order into public finances, the same catastrophic public finances that this government has found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8904	Thank you. Mr. Lazic, I think it's time we ended up. Here you go. Not to infinity.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8905	Mr. Chairman, you're not here to judge what time is and what time is it. (President: Don't argue with me, take your word. Do I have a right to a replica or do I not? If I don't, you say I don't. (President: You have the replica, please. ) I thank you for the words. I'm sorry Mr. Arsic came out. I have no problem with Mr. Miskovic. Mr. Miskovic is a state project back in the 20 years of the Republic of Serbia, so senior colleagues are likely to have much more experience about it and can discuss it. I'm not the address for that story. As for Mr Dinkic, all the economic reforms, theories, experiments that someone could carry out in this country, he spent 12 years. The results and consequences of these reforms are what we have today, one way or another. Whether it burdens you or doesn't burden you, it's already not a question for me, it's a question for the society in which we live today and what our standard of living is. He is the only constant of all economic processes that have taken place in this country. That doesn't bother you, you can't defend it. If he'd done something in his life, he wouldn't have done anything but practice theory. So I suggest, for the first time, he may have a chance to apply something in practice, to implement it and to set an example for businessmen how these legal measures are, and how effective they are, how good they are for this society and how our standard of living will grow.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8906	Thank you. Replic on behalf of the parliamentary group, Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8907	Don't doubt Mr Dinkic will take that chance. You're saying he didn't do practical things. Look at how it ended in 2006, whether with deficits or with surpluses. I'm going to ask you -- did the previous four years of the prime minister, proposed by your party, deal with theory and practice, and what disastrous situation did he leave behind after the government ended? I will also remind you that in the area of finance in the previous four years Mr Dinkic did not have any interest and I will remind you that the story of the "Agrobank" and the "Development Bank" Vojvodina happened precisely in the previous four years.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8908	We're done with the replicas. Mr. Lazic, you have challenged the replica, I have given the right to an authorised representative to respond because you mentioned their party. Please, we're done with the replicas. The word is from the MP Biljana Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8909	The Honorable chairman, respected fellow MPs, is unlikely to be too high on this occasion to point out once again that as an SNS MP, I share the satisfaction of my party colleagues, as the proposal for a law on public procurement entered the assembly procedure. The MPs of this house, as well as the general public, are well aware that institutional regulation of public procurement was one of the backbones of our pre-election promises, as we now felt it necessary to introduce order in the way and process of spending the money of Serbian citizens. There is, I hope, honest, and not only a declarative, obvious consensus of all parties and social elites, that the handling of taxpayers' funds is one of the most obvious parameters of the responsible government, and thus the mirror of the state as a whole. It is also a public secret that public procurement procedures, envisioned by procedures in earlier laws of this kind, were largely one of the most significant delays in systemic corruption due to insufficient quality legal solutions. This, of course, resulted in a huge waste of funds, whether it was irrational spending or corrupt cash flows, making it difficult to decide which of these two options is less good or more bad. About the very development of this legislative solution and the public debates, as well as the widest circle of participants involved in determining its final text of the proposal, there have also been a lot of words in the past months. I, however, wanted to draw attention to the broader aspects of public procurement issues with my discussion. I personally and have no dilemma that by adopting this document we will very normally and institutionally improve this key segment of the functioning of the state, that money flows will be quite transparent, that all procedures of these procedures will be monitored, that the greatest quality of the proposed text is its feasibility, sustainability and possibility of implementation as soon as possible. What will, however, have to last much longer, unfortunately, are they broader social benefits and the effects the proposed document will only be able to bring, based on a healthy starting point. I would dare, of course, on an extremely conditional note, to label this phenomenon as a civil, or civil culture of public procurement. I mean, the previous practice of spending money on Serbian citizens, and I don't just think about the previous government, knowingly or intentionally, out of ignorance or evil intentions, was mostly below all civilization standards. Whatever was the intention of the power bearer then, the outcome is quite devastating. The widest public, and here, above all, I mean what we call ordinary citizens of Serbia, is not even used to being at least active and as qualified a follower of the process of spending their money. It is certainly not my intention to demean the citizens of this country in any way, because here it is not a matter of underestimating their intelligence or their ability to participate in something, but it is logical and quite inevitable, and thus the expected outcomes of a poor decades of practice. The fact that both system solutions and various known and unknown manipulations of the worst kind have been denied their right to have insight into the rationality and purpose of spending their money does not mean that it has succeeded in the deception of citizens. For years and more and more, they have the inconclusive belief that something has rotted in the state of Serbia, that it affects whoever it wants and how much it will, which further worsens our citizens' perception of our own state, and especially of political authorities. Finally, it may also be the most devastating impression of its kind of general apathy and indifference, and especially of the growing sensitivity to corruption, which has been particularly well received in the area of public procurement. It is also a devastating fact, and many research shows, that citizens have accepted corruption as a common social phenomenon, as their own way of life. This led to an almost social schizophrenic situation, in which citizens no longer have a problem with corruption as the biggest enemy of themselves, their families, environments and societies in general, but are in many cases themselves ready to participate in corruption. As more and more of the legal, social and institutional channels, through which ordinary people could articulate and realise their legitimate life interests, citizens are listed to agree to corruption as a way of life and to even become accomplices to it, not because they wanted to, but because their selection room was literally torn under their feet. This has created an unspeakable public edifice towards political officials, as well as collective frustration and suspicion of everything the state authorities are doing, bringing so seriously into question and the functioning of society itself in general. Thus, the corrupt moral pattern has possessed increasingly wider and wider segments of the civil and public sector, which has led to a settlement with its inevitable existence, as well as the constant delay and pacification of the fight against it, with an unspeakable amount of demagoggy and a declarative push for its eradication, better put into the inevitable frameworks at the height of the statistical error, as the regulated countries do. Whoever is responsible for all of this, the topic is for some other discussion or, better yet, for some other institutions. The current moment is that this unsustainable situation is changing, rather than creating conditions to start changing. In addition to the clearly expressed political will to start with this process, set out in a clearly established principle of zero tolerance for corruption, a proper system framework is needed, a better said foundation. The quality law on public procurement is precisely this most important tool in the great preservation of state and society. Corruption is the most serious disease of society, and in our case, epidemic conditions, which we are all aware of, for which stopping is prevention of the best treatment method. I am convinced that the highest quality of the proposed document is precisely what the mechanisms for preventing irregularities and machinations during the procurement process are envisaged. So I give my vote and full support to this bill, because I don't agree to the state's impotence, I don't agree to the impotence of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8910	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8911	Thank you. Dear chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Green Serbia always has a position to try to improve a legal solution or some legal proposal. I'll start with two relatively good things. The principle of environmental protection and ensuring energy efficiency is the newspaper of the Public Procurement Act, but it is only in that part of the declaration. This principle is mentioned and nothing more. No green or ecological public procurement has been defined, as someone calls them, and the term – green, green procurement, green economy, exists since the Declaration in Rio plus 20. Therefore, we are not green because of green procurement, nor are green procurement green because of green. Article 28, which speaks of a citizen's supervisor, we like it in principle. We think he's supposed to exist, but he should be elected by the board of directors or just appointed by the Public Procurement Authority. Since this area you're all talking about is a corrupt area, it should be appointed and appointed by a higher body without being the Public Procurement Authority. Therefore, I am surprised at the excitement some colleagues talk to about the new law on public procurement and what disrespect and contempt they speak of previous or previous public procurement laws, even though they have been all these 12 years or at least seven or eight years of the creators of these policies and public procurement creators. Now as a coalition partner, I am more responsible for what these gentlemen have been doing all these 12 years, because they have forgotten that they have been in government and past times. I'm very uncomfortable when I have to address Mr. Arsic for something someone else did. The SNS are getting it. When you are so brave, come closer. Practically, in previous governments, they destroyed public procurement, destroyed environmental protection, and practically destroyed the environmental protection system. I don't think it's hard for our citizens to guess who this is, and I'm not going to give a cause for replication. That's why I'm uncomfortable talking to Mr. Arsic, because, as our people say, they've cheered and dressed someone else for all these 12 years, and yet others all these 20 years. I'm surprised when I feel called or when these gentlemen and ladies call me because I'm in a coalition with the DS. Green public procurement is a public procurement of environmentally acceptable and innovative products and services. This is important to bear in mind, since neither in this law nor in this law, unfortunately does not mention much green public procurement, because it must contain ecological criteria for the choice of products and services that are the subject of public procurement. Let's say that there may be a need for green public procurement in some of the following steps. We're still only dealing with solving the consequences, and we're not dealing with prevention. That is what, unfortunately, for all these years, decades and perhaps centuries in Serbia can be said to always treat the consequences, and we never deal with the prevention of certain things. The Greens consider that any competition for the selection of suppliers must be clearly marked, that the competition for green public procurement and that it must contain ecological criteria of acceptability. This means, in our opinion, that the government should adopt an annual plan for green public procurement, so that the plan should determine the products and services required to be introduced into the system of green public procurement, i.e. to meet the ecological criteria for choice. In another period, of course, the plan should be adopted by 1 September for the following year, for the next financial year. This should include the competent ministry, which must also define the rules on ecological criteria for product selection, evaluation instructions, technical specifications for products and services, etc. We think it is of paramount importance that green public procurement be included, that eco-innovative procurement of equipment or supply services with a multi-year supply or purchase of leases. In fact, in the protection of the environment and green procurement, technologies are very often changed, so you can simply return some of the outdated technologies to its place of new technology, to recognize these public procurements and help. We believe that both centralised and dynamic and united and indicative, anything and everything should be green public procurement in some future period, because the new technology brings eco-innovative supplies of equipment or equipment and services, etc. Here we have these green lising models, because the new generations are coming very quickly. In this regard, Greens consider that there must be an annex of three, which would refer to a green list on which there will be a green list of unequivocally ecologically acceptable services and goods, for which we can, of course, determine that they are ecologically and by purpose and by quality. Green public procurement, of course, needs to be introduced gradually to government plans and that this is the task primarily of the Government and that we have the purchase of recycled writing paper, photocopying, we have organic food that we think is very important for meals in kindergartens and primary schools and children's hospitals. Reserved public procurement of organic products or organic products for children in kindergartens, preschools and school institutions. I only mention some, life-saving lamps without livestock fibers, pellets and heat pumps for public buildings, public procurement for insulation of objects. Purchase of organic fuel, if such fuel exists at all, we can talk about environmentally acceptable fuels, bio-ethanol, bio- diesel, etc. We think that the Agency for Joint Affairs, which is how the Joint Affairs Administration will obtain paper and what it undertakes to be recycled paper. If we wait for our dumps to increase, for our waste to accumulate, and then for us to introduce recycled products, it'll be too late. That is why I think it is very important that in the state of Serbia we start thinking a little ahead, whether it will be in the next government, colleagues from the Progressive Party, colleagues from the DS or perhaps all together in some subsequent governments. There are a few questions we need answers to. What obliges large kitchens and food manufacturers, large cafeterias, medical institutions not to use chemical products to disinfect objects. Namely, a very high percentage of pollution comes from irregular disinfection or from excessive disinfection by chemical means, and it is well known that there are excellent biological agents based on enzymes or on harmless microorganisms. Someone has to define that, and someone has to encourage people who will deal with public procurement to think environmentally and deal with green public procurement. Accordingly, we believe that the citizen supervisor must exist for green public procurement. Thank you and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8912	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8913	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, when an important, large, capital, large system law such as the Public Procurement Act is adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, several questions are raised. Since the Serbian public does not suffer from collective amnesia, although some would like it, if the Serbian public suffers from amnesia, I will ask these questions. Is it also why the existing Law on Public Procurement is wrong even though it has been with certain grinds, with certain corrections for 10 years in application? Why was there no political will for this area to be further and detailed if the indicator of such a thing should have been, what my colleague Jadranka Joksimovic said earlier in 2002, in one tender, a little more than eight, almost nine bidders appeared in 2002, when that number was only three bidders? Who is responsible for the fact that no one believes in the public, transparency and honesty of public procurement in Serbia anymore? In the current parliamentary debate, fellow MPs from opposition political groups held the view that this proposal is a law on public procurement, that it is less or more good, but that they do not trust the ruling majority, or that they do not trust those who need and apply this law and implement it. The Serbian Progressive Party has neither asked nor expected that trust. The Serbian Progressive Party advocates and fights for the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As he says, dear colleague, Mr. Zoran Ostojić, and I mention him without a desire to challenge him in a replica, to point. You could see today in all the public opinion studies that have passed on both written and electronic media, which is less and less trusted by the opposition in the SNS, it is a growing confidence of the citizens of the SNS and it has now and number, which is 41%, and I'm sure you've seen it in both written and electronic media. That rating was credited. Deserved by our pre-election promises to the fullest extent and fulfilled and fulfilled, which is the essential fight against crime and corruption that has its own personality on behalf and last name of Mr. Alexander Vukic, but also the new law on public procurement that we have promised in the election campaign, and today we are adopting it. They don't have to trust colleagues, distinguished colleagues from DS, LDP, to us from the SNS. But I don't understand why they don't trust senior EU officials if Serbia's European future is an undeniable goal. I will remind you of the session held at the special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 29 March 2011 when Mr. Stefan File addressed us here in this room, as the only guest, as the only speaker. He spoke of nine priorities that Serbia must meet to full and must devote itself to, to full membership in the EU. As part of the second priority concerning the fundamental fight against organised crime and corruption, he particularly noted public procurement. I'll quote a sentence, Mr. Phil's words. "Special attention should be paid to public procurement so that it is implemented in accordance with EU standards, given that this area is highly vulnerable to corruption in Serbia." The end of the quote. ) Wasn't this sentence enough and not enough trigger that public procurement is an area that needs to be further regulated and that this sentence is sufficient to indicate that such a new proposal for the Public Procurement Act should be adopted and given a chance. The Serbian Progressive Party is a party that does not build barricades. The Serbian Progressive Party is a bridge-making party. That's why I'm going to ask you to support the new law on public procurement in full capacity in the voting day. The objections to the existing Law on Public Procurement of the SNS were also presented in the previous National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it was also presented in the pre-election campaign, we will present and present and now that this new law on public procurement would not enter into similar problems and that the challenges would go much better. These irregularities are a large number of exceptions to the application that account for public procurement in Serbia at 9% of GDP level. I remind you that the percentage in EU countries is 16%. What does that mean? That 7% of GDP wanders us, spends outside the law, potentially outside the law. That is why I cannot accept as a value, as a possibility, as a way something was brought forward in the debate when authorised representatives of parliamentary groups spoke, when it was said that the fight against corruption in public procurement is only if the amount of public procurement is reduced. No, I think that the goal, one of the objectives of this law, is to achieve public procurement in the future and reach that amount of 16% of GDP. The next complaint is a discrepancy with EU directives, which could be seen from the words of Mr. File who said they should be implemented in accordance with EU standards, which in itself means that they are not implemented according to EU standards, at least not under the existing Public Procurement Act. Unregulated procurement from defence and security areas, also mentioned by counterpart Jadranka Joksimovic, because according to DRI, which is a public document that can be seen on the DRI site, it is evident that confidential procurement, negotiated by direct contract, spent five billion dinars in 2010, unlike public procurement in the same year, where the Ministry of Defence spent 6.3 billion dinars. It's a dangerous relationship. I'm not saying that five billion dinars have been spent and that there are corrupt acts in all this. No, I don't. As soon as something closes in two pairs of eyes, in four walls, as soon as something is non-transparent, it is subject to suspicion that this money has been spent and that it has gone in some corrupt ways. The broad possibility of using the negotiation process without public call and without an effective mechanism to prevent the abuse of this process, you see, there have been certain objections, where such a procedure, also envisaged by this law, is a new proposal for a law on public procurement. That procedure shall treat and explain Article 36. But what I would like to tell my colleagues and colleagues is that no law nor this public procurement bill can be read selectively. We cannot read by looking at each sixth member or at that member each third attitude. We need to read attitude by attitude. The title above article 36 says – a negotiation procedure without publication of calls for tenders. If we just take that sentence and take that title into account, yes, it is dangerous, that it is possible that someone will not call or call someone. However, what I would like to point out, which is the second position of this member, which he says - is that the contracting officer is obliged to require the Public Procurement Authority to have an opinion on the basis of the application of the negotiation procedure before the opening of the negotiation procedure referred to in paragraphs 1 to 6. No negotiation procedure without a public call should be initiated without the opinion of the Public Procurement Authority. It is already another control of the public procurement process itself. You could've said, "We don't need something like that." We could've thrown out a member like this. But then I'm going to ask you, if you're in office or if you're the director of the National Library of the Republic of Serbia, how are you going to get the book, say, of the late Mom Kappor, if there's only one publisher for that book? Will you provide three or five bidders? No, of course not. There will be one bidder with whom you will agree in a direct contract, without public publication. There are many further objections to the existing law on public procurement and an inefficient system of protection of rights and an ineffective violation of the procedure, e.g. cetera, and a lot more. However, the SNS is facing the future, we are facing the effects this proposal will give public procurement law from the day of its application, which is March 31st 2013. What I would particularly point out is the process of passing such a system law itself and would indeed call on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and any future legislators, any, particularly systemic, to implement or try to implement such a procedure. The bill was submitted in the previous National Assembly meeting and published on the website, 7 February 2012. During September and October, large-scale public hearings were conducted and organised, several conferences were held. The draft law on public procurement was sent to several dozen addresses of international institutions, the biggest users of public procurement, as well as representatives of the NGO sector and civil society. So I can freely say that for this bill, that behind this bill is the widest possible front and governmental and non-governmental sectors and the international community. It is because of the opinions and suggestions and the permanent missions of suggestions and EU delegations in Serbia, the European Commission, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the defence, energy, finance and economy, the biggest users of public procurement, Telecom, JAT, Jugoimport, EPS, but, as fourth and not least, we have made significant use of the civil sector's opinions. My colleagues from the SNS also spoke about the new values of this law on public procurement. I will highlight only some, and these are centralization of public procurement, and a very significant increase in competition. Centralisation of public procurement takes place on two levels, it is centralisation of public procurement at the level of the Republic and centralisation of public procurement at the level of local self-government. As far as centralisation at state level is concerned, it concerns all state authorities, agencies, regulatory bodies and judicial authorities. For centralisation at the level of local self-government of municipalities and cities, it refers to public utility companies, kindergartens, schools, health homes and hospitals. What is good, and there is a large number of local self-governments in Serbia, which are small by size and by population, there is a possibility and it is predicted that more local self-government can organise public procurement in one place. It is estimated that centralisation at the state level will cover around 10% of the value of all public procurement. What is achieved by centralised? Significant savings are being made, which has indeed been one of our primary objectives, through greater amounts of reduction in the cost of procedures, standardisation of goods and services. However, what is the primary goal of centralisation, which is better planning and above all, is a stronger control that is obtained by centralising public procurement. As I said at the beginning, at this point in public, transparency, honesty of public procurement, in Serbia, unfortunately no one believes. After one tender, only three bidders appear in one public procurement, and one who is due to get a job, and two, unfortunately, who are defined there. That is why we paid particular attention and made it more competitive with this law on public procurement, and that was one of the priorities. This increase in competition, provided through eased evidence of mandatory conditions, deadlines are suited to objective needs. All ads are posted on the Internet, not on some local newspaper, so no one can hear about them. The method of determining technical specifications is specified. It has been prevented that small, formal shortcomings lead to a rejection of more favourable offers, which means that under the new Public Procurement Act, it will not stand next to any tender, minority, and a icon or logo company, which it is intended to receive. It is mandatory to pay costs in case of suspension of proceedings, and we have had in Serbia in the past ten years, many cases when public procurement was due, precisely because the company that was supposed to get the job was not the most favourable bidder. The lists of candidates in the qualification process must have at least five candidates. When these measures are being added to the Public Procurement Act, I will remind you that, with the 2013 budget, we also adopted the draft law on the settlement deadlines of monetary commitments in commercial transactions, where the deadline for reconciliation of the state's obligations towards suppliers is 45 days, I think and I am sure that these two factors will be motivated that future bidders become more massier, more involved in the competition and give the most favourable conditions and the lowest prices for goods and services. The sanctions are also an integral part of this bill. They take place through the futility of the contract and through the violations. Infringements are intended to be layered, both through an increase in the threatened fines, an extended limitation period, and through a proposal for the resolution of the responsible person, the contracting authority, which violates the provisions of the law on public procurement. In the voting day, of course, the SNS, as part of the ruling coalition, will be pleased to vote in favour of the public procurement bill, which will bring one new atmosphere, a fairer, more responsible, a better atmosphere and an investment and atmosphere that will raise the reputation of the entire Serbian state, and therefore I call once again on you in the day to vote, in full capacity, to support and give a chance to this public procurement law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8914	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8915	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when we talk, as the previous speaker said, about a very important law, the Law on Public Procurement, to me in this order in front of you, the chairman, lacks a minister in charge of this area, even if it is Mr Dinkic. I'm missing someone who's supposed to enforce this law. There's another, to a large extent, populist law here. This tells the fact that this is a proposal from a group of MPs, or MP groups, and it always resorts to something that wants to be given a universal character. Mr. Babic just listed today's press and spoke to political parties. You know what, Milosevic at best had a much better rating than the one that records SNS today, but let's not forget that during that period the salary was five marks, that the fuel was sold in cans, that it was waiting in line for bread, that it was inflation, etc. You want to interrupt me? You probably didn't listen to the previous speaker, did you?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8916	I listened well to you, please, but what does it matter now, Milosevic and the Public Procurement Act? Please move on to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8917	Mr. Chairman, what does the ratings from the daily press of political parties have to do with the Public Procurement Act? Have you listened to the previous speaker?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8918	Yes, sir, but you are not authorized to replicate the previous speaker. He could have replicated your head of Parliament. As far as I can see, the authorised representative is National MP Bozidar Djelic. Therefore, I ask you not to replicate, but to move on to the subject and respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8919	Dear Chairman, for your information, I'm the deputy head of the parliamentary group. The other thing, I didn't replicate it at all, but I discussed it in a similar way as the previous speaker discussed, and you allowed it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8920	Mr. Veselinović, please, why are we having an unnecessarily debate? I think it's really unnecessary. I have here that MP Bozidar Djelic is an authorised representative of your party. I do not dispute that you are a deputy, but, according to the Rules of Procedure, the right to replicate if the party has only the boss, or authorized representative of the relevant party. Please stick to it. Nothing else. I heard what Mr. Babic said, and I listened to you, but I do not allow you to abuse the Rules of Procedure. If your boss had replicated, I would have given him that right. Get back to the agenda. Please stick to the agenda and thank you for understanding me, I hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8921	I can't understand you at all, but I will respect the fact that you don't understand the Rules of Procedure and I will follow your orders, Mr. General.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8922	Please don't insult me. Why am I giving orders here? I'm so correct with you. I'm proud of being a general, and I'm not ashamed of it at all. I feel that I have served this country with honor and honesty, and I see no reason for you to push it out on me now, to give orders here. It seems to me that I have an extremely correct relationship with each and every one of you individually. I don't feel at all hurt by it, but I think you're trying to say I'm giving orders. That's not true. I have patience enough to tolerate and respect your needs, but don't abuse my patience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8923	Dear Chairman, please return my time to the beginning. First of all, I wanted to use the time of the parliamentary group to kind of replicate Mr. Babic. I didn't want to use the opportunity to report to the Rules of Procedure, or to replicate. You took that away from me, and I think it's a serious misunderstanding and you're wrong. To begin with, I ask you to give me back my time at the beginning if possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8924	Mr. Veselinović, we have a small misunderstanding. You're the next speaker, and I gave you my word on that basis, not on the basis of the replica. Otherwise, I wouldn't give you a word based on the replica, I've already given you a word based on the registered speaker. Please respect that. So there's no misunderstanding, I'll cut your time for the half that's been spent here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8925	Chairman, how are you gonna cut my time by half when I didn't even start talking?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8926	So that I'm not a cepidlaka, I'll cancel the time, and I'll give you my word at first. Here you go, now sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8927	Thank you, Chairman. So, when it comes to the Public Procurement Act, it was a lot of words before its adoption, especially in the election campaign, when the ruling parties now promised to save 700m, billions of euros, etc. These are numbers that are unverified, such as the general promises they made, uncheckable. It was said of savings and it could be counted that this law would be passed and those savings should have entered into the calculation of the budget adopted. So, this budget was supposed to feel that 600 million savings, say, and it was meant for citizens to know where that money would go, whether it would go for the socially endangered, whether it would increase pensions to the most vulnerable, whether it would go for education, whether it would go for health care, etc. That's not gonna happen. Public procurement plans, adopted these days by public enterprises, show no savings. There are no effects of the Public Procurement Act. So, from these promises, as so far, there will be nothing. If this law is going to save a single dollar, maybe it makes sense. However, my view is that this law has more shortcomings which, and if savings are made, will be caused by significant damages that can be caused both by the Republic of Serbia and by the citizens of Serbia. What does that really mean? First of all, this law should enter into force on 1 April. I hope every match to the date is random. Public procurement, under the new law, should be realised after 1 April. Of course, all suppliers will see to it that public procurement is carried out as soon as possible and that the largest number of public procurements will be realised by April 1st and that practically the possibility of obtaining something after that law will be exhausted. I'm not saying that part of the public procurement won't be realised after that period. For another reason, however, because of the fact that this law is complicated, good work and inapplicable, there will be a stalemate in public procurement and what should be obtained under this law on public procurement will hardly be realised. I'll give you an example of that. In Article 153, 4, 8. etc. Those deadlines shall be set in which the proceedings under the complaints of dissatisfied tenderers are carried out. The total time limit that can now be calculated is 62 days. That's over two months. In the event that the Commission may leave the supplier with an indefinite number of days to collect additional documentation, the total period may be over three months. So this can be clearly calculated when you compare all the maximum deadlines that are given here. Given the fact that the public procurement process itself lasts for two months, it is a total of five months for one public procurement. What does that mean? So if someone started in the fifth month public procurement, it'll end in the tenth month. We know what the abuses of bidders have been so far, which were to say professional bidders, and it was not their goal at all to get a job, but to blackmail suppliers or tenderers who are their competitors, in such a way as to say – you will give us a certain percentage of this public procurement, we will give up the appeal. The idea of the law was not well done, i.e. the black lists that should be applied to the bidders are not properly arranged. They are essentially aware of the fact that a single supplier will be placed on the blacklist only for a particular public procurement, and that he will be able to realise, that he offers offers on all other types of items. These blacklists will not be a way to prevent bidders who do not have business morality, or behave according to the rules of good business practices. He won't be able to stop them from participating in public procurement. If this is combined with the fact that even the deadlines for responding to the supplier's complaints will be unlimited, i.e. for a long time, I believe that the second advantage of this law, which should have provided transparency and insight into purchases within each time frame, is annulled with this. In that sense, I believe that although this law, which may have been passed in good faith, will not produce the desired results, and that is, as previous counterpart Lazic said, we will see in about six or seven months. We can't check it right now. Unfortunately, it will happen to us, as with some laws, when we've shown you that there are shortcomings, that they need to be fixed, that you haven't done it, and that we already have the consequences of certain bad laws. That is why I believe that this law is not yet mature for our support, and we believe that more amendments should be accepted to correct it, in order to sort of remove this obstacle, which consists primarily in its ineffectiveness and inapplicability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8928	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say that it happened in the laws, when no deadlines were defined when an authority was required to act in the public procurement system, that we waited six months for the appeal procedure to be completed. Now it must end within 30 days and appeal to be adopted or rejected. So, I think a good part of this discussion that I consider to be well-intentioned, I think it's too much, especially that it has one better and more effective solution than it is in the current law. We will see that through another law, I fully understand why the DS disputed the Public Procurement Act, but through another law, which is the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, we will prevent those who participated in public procurement from getting jobs as public procurement contractors from funding political parties. I think it's one of the biggest problems DS is making because of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8930	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8931	Mr. Arsic, unfortunately you're wrong. I wish in that part it was so arranged, that it was quite clear and accurate and that it was 30 days. However, the supplier, or lieutenant, has 10 days to answer the complaint of the person who submitted the offer. Then, five days is the time limit for the receipt to be requested, after a prior examination within five days of the date of receipt of an orderly application for the protection of rights, the contracting authority will adopt the request, etc. That's another five days. Then the completion days, which are not defined until the end, can be 30 days, Mr. Arsic. This is article 154 for you. So that's our unknown. Then, the basic deadline for making, to say the Commission's decisions is 20 days or 30 days and can be extended for another 15 days. That's 45 days. Forty-five days plus these days, it's a total of 62 days, plus that when the supplier makes a solution, Mr. Arsic, from that day to the final solution can take at least 62 days. It's a deadline you can see from here. You can't see what if the commission decides to leave 20 days to the supplier to collect the paperwork. So it's over 60 days. Since the commission will be covered by complaints, as it has been so far, it is certain that these deadlines will be breached, and worst of all there is no sanction for the commission unless it has acted within this deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8932	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8933	I do not share your opinion that the commission will be covered by complaints, because so far, under the applicable law, complaints have been filed because some application has been filled in with a hand and therefore he could not participate in the public procurement process. It's just one example without talking about the missing paperwork and it's been submitted. Then the bidders themselves, the only way to exercise their rights, were to write complaints to the commission. With this way of keeping records and finally solving what is important missing, and the law provides, we also solve problems related to writing complaints to the Commission. It happened that even on purpose, the Public Procurement Commission made a material failure to cancel the selection of contractors, who had no conflict of interest with the members of the commission. There was always something missing material, until this contractor quits and the one for which the procurement was intended gets a job. And that's what happened. Now that all documentation is clear, visible, anyone can write a complaint at any time, because sometimes it's too late, I don't think the commission will have that much work to do under this current law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8934	The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8935	Dear fellow MPs, a respected presidency, the SNS parliamentary group sent the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Procurement, as we saw, as well as citizens could see that public procurement was used to abuse and rob state and public property. In Serbia, even up to a billion euros have been lost annually due to the lack of domestic relations with state and public property, due to boast and corruption, and through public procurement. In order to save that money and stay in the budget for some other needs, which there are many, we have proposed to the Assembly the Law on Public Procurement, this law that we have before us, and which the National Assembly, I believe, will adopt to the great majority. The current legislative proposal was preceded by a four-month public debate, the result of which is this high-quality legislative proposal. This legislative proposal did not arrive after an urgent procedure at the assembly session, so that MPs would have enough time to read the legislative proposal and make their remarks and suggestions through the amendments, so that the law might even be corrected. This legislative proposal introduces control in the procurement process, enables competition and prevents corruption. It is known to all of us, some more, some less, that the last few years of public procurement jobs have been mainly obtained by elected, close authorities, both in the Republic and in the province or local authorities. A common case was the lack of honest supervision of the works carried out which were the subject of public procurement, so many works were performed unqualityly, the roads were patched up in the spring, in the autumn, several times the same works were performed, and the quality was such – holding water until the masters left. So, respected colleagues, the law is very good, but it's also important how it's going to apply. We have other good laws today, but unfortunately they don't apply. In Serbia, some write laws and pass laws, and many of them are looking for a hole in those laws, in order to obtain some benefit, damaged the budget, whether the republics, provinces or municipalities. That way, by some law, it's stolen anyway, because it's mostly stolen by the law. I hope this law will prevent any form of abuse in public procurement to build a fair and fair state, and that is possible. Changes are needed in ways of thinking of many who are able to dispose of and manage state and public property. Public procurement has to be done only by people of integrity and purely professional biography. They must be honorable, honest, good hosts, which no one can buy. Good hosts wouldn't actually need public procurement. Unfortunately, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, the previous regime has led the last few years to more and more corruption. Today we are in line countries with the highest corruption rate. Because of the high corruption rate, most foreign investors are avoiding Serbia. Corruption has taken so much wave and local self-government, that if someone wants to invest something in local self-government, it is made clear to him how much it will cost him to get permission to work in local self-government. So some got the nickname "Mr. Ten percent", "Mr. Fifteen percent", etc. Dear fellow Members of the People, I think this is the right time as part of Mr. Alexander Vukic's fight against corruption to pass a quality Public Procurement Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8936	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8937	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the current law has had significant shortcomings. Since many of my colleagues in the DS have already spoken on this subject, I will just say that it is true that the current law has had insufficient transparency, poor efficiency of the system, i.e. large paperwork that existed, abuse of the appeal procedure, poor institutional coordination, etc. The SNS proposal for a new Public Procurement Act has both positive and negative sides. The positive sides are, above all, the obligation to publish everything on the portal and all deadlines are running from publication and the basis for electronic procurement is created and this is very positive. The ecological criterion of energy efficiency is introduced. It reduces the possibility of abuse of the appeal procedure by introducing a blacklist for those making abuses in the public procurement system. The publication of small public procurement is also envisaged, which is likely to significantly reduce corruption. The centralised public procurement administration is being established and a framework agreement and concrete dialogue is being introduced. The negative side of the Public Procurement Act is that there is no significant reduction in the basis for systemic corruption. The exemptions from the application of this law in Article 7, which my colleagues have discussed in detail, and this is not in line with the EU and its directive, opens new opportunities for corruption and that is the fact. The possibility of corruption is opened in the purchase of services related to the production of identification documents, transport and security of money transport, point 7) and second, the possibility of a non-transparent debt, point 9 is opened. There is not enough change in a member that defines negotiation without publication. The same number of procedures that take place outside the public's eyes is still retained, thus not reducing corruption. They didn't reduce administrative procedures and paperwork. Companies will continue to deliver tons of unnecessary material and documentation, and this is also the basis for corruption. Anyone can appeal to stop the procurement process and thus blackmail other bidders, which some professionally deal with in Serbia, unfortunately. There is no better control of additional works in construction, i.e. better definition of surpluses and labour shortages, which is a major basis for corruption. Instead, the percentage of additional works from 25% to 15% were reduced, which is what he was talking about, which will not lead to savings, as the basic price will rise by 10%. The negative sides are also that the efficiency of institutions has not been increased. It is an obligation to send a large number of reports to the DRI, which is unnecessary, they are even in conflict with the law that defines its work. More powers shall be given to the Public Procurement Authority, thereby automatically undermining the position of the independent regulatory body of the Commission for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers. Since the criteria for the selection of directors of the Public Procurement Administration have been defined, competition should be called upon after the adoption of this law, as provided for by the Commission. The criteria for selecting the president and the members of the Commission are stricter but still not strict enough. It is enough for a member of the Commission to experience only three years in the field of public procurement. You'll agree that's really not enough. The entire system is additionally burdened with a declarational fight against corruption, leading to a risk that the public procurement process is not implemented at all. For example, it is required that the orderer, which many of my colleagues have spoken of, secures competition, which is sometimes not possible, and seems to me that it is contrary to some healthy logic, so the orderlies, so that they are not accused of corruption, will not carry out the procedure. We already have a blockade, unfortunately, in many local self-governments, because many personnel of the new government, who have been composing, have shown that they do not know what the Virman is, or what the invoice is, or what public procurement is, and refrain from the procedures and realization of projects, as your mayors also acknowledge publicly. But there's one good thing about all this, which would help the DS really support this law, which is better than the previous one, which is to do the thing that we suggested yesterday through my colleague Bozidar Djelic's mouth, which is to adopt an amendment that would allow budget rebalances and that would announce the savings that you repeatedly announced and that move between 600m euros and billions of euros into that rebalancing. We have suggested that those savings be used primarily to support families, pregnant women and those in the most difficult social situation. Now we will be able to see very quickly and in the part of your will to accept a really good amendment, which will show that the savings you were talking about in the pre-election campaign and now and during this debate, which are 600m euros, in this way we paint and say, through the rebalancing and the presence of Minister Dinkic, who will have to come and show what savings are, whether they are achieved and what they will be spent for, that the Assembly achieves a full control mechanism, and that the funds that you have spoken of and that we believe that they are possible to save, that we really put them into function in this way. If there's something wrong with what the DS is proposing, then you tell us what's wrong with it? Em is in line with your promise, the em is in line with your projection of the savings you've made fully effective. So we're just adding and helping the ruling majority, by creating a clear mechanism to really cross it for those who need it most in Serbia, and these are vulnerable families without work, pregnant women and people who are on the verge of social ruin. Therefore, if you think that this amendment is wrong, you have not yet made it clear why it is impossible, we think it is possible and there is no reason to protect coalition partners in this situation, because this is one of those situations where the ruling majority and the largest party in the ruling majority, there is indeed this power and the ability to show more than goodwill, to show real concern for citizens, that your announced 600m euros will really help, and that we are not saying that it will lead to the deficit being below 1% of the gross social product, which will solve the problem of the fiscal deficit overnight and reduce Serbia's public debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8938	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8939	I just wanted to say there's no need for the DS to take care of the victims of the former regime. We will solve this problem in the three or four years that the government of the Republic of Serbia is going to last and do not worry about those who have lost their jobs while Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and President Boris Tadic led the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8940	Thank you. Borislav Stefanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8941	Yes, it does sound really demagogue, Mr. Arsic, because in that same government the vice prime minister was Ivica Dacic, and Mladjan Dinkic was everything, as he is now. What is not the same, that the state is more in charge, that unfortunately the unemployed are more unemployed, that the standard of living has fallen much more. It is not an answer to my question, which is very specific – why not allow for a constructive, parliamentary, democratic way, the adoption of our amendment, which will help citizens? It's not a demagogue's answer - don't worry about those whose lives are ruined. You're not going to say that DS is the only one responsible, and those with you in government are not responsible for the fall in living standards, which is, by the way, smaller than at the time of this government, now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8942	The word has the People's MP Sasa Maksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the existing 2008 Public Procurement Act, or January 2009, was adopted after six years of application of the Public Procurement Act. Compared to the 2002 law and after the adoption of new EU directives in this area, no opportunity has been taken to improve the public procurement system and to comply with laws that are valid with the EU. On the other hand, an excellent opportunity has been taken to find all its shortcomings, commit abuse, and material benefit. The existing law did not improve the public procurement system, unfortunately, but in some elements, such as competitiveness, was a step backwards. Certainly, the greatest shortfall is a large number of exceptions to its application, such as the urgency of the process, where mass corruption is open, resulting in the loss of Serbia's state in the amount, that I am now not bidding on whether 500m euros, a billion euros, is certainly more than 500m euros per year. Then, without compliance with EU directives, especially through the existence of exceptions to the application of laws which are not in the Directives, the lack of individual procedures provided for by directives, the non-compliance of procurement in the municipal sector, the non-compliance of the law protection system, the misapplication of certain provisions, the absence of mechanisms to prevent corruption and conflicts of interest, the possibility of public procurement contracts being concluded with bidders and in the event of conflicts of interest, the broad possibility of using the negotiation procedure without publication of a public call, without an effective mechanism to prevent the abuse of this procedure, etc. What was an additional problem, which was not at all in the corrupt sense of underestimation, are low-value public procurement procedures, which have so far been governed by a sublegal act and that is not acceptable, because they must certainly be governed by the law. So far, it has been arranged in a way that makes it non-transparent, non-competitive, inefficient, or very suitable for the emergence of corruption, which individuals have certainly used as much as possible, tearing up large-scale purchases of low-value public purchases. One example could be, perhaps, a small example, but it could be the municipality of New Vienna, where once a day three vehicles were purchased from the same seller, but, of course, every single one of them by purchase of small value. The same case was with the purchase of lighting for the entire municipality, for the entire municipality territory, which, with the loan of more local self-government, was divided into local communities by small-value purchases and also retroactively. I'm convinced the story is even more drastic in the larger local self-government, and the public enterprises and I'm not talking. In addition to these shortcomings, some of the solutions provided for by the existing law, such as the Public Procurement Officer, the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights, although I think well imagined, had failed in the past law, for the reason that the provisions of the law had only started since the end of 2010. To remind you, the law was passed in December 2008, entered into force in January 2009, and this institute has been due to apply since July 2009. It has only started to apply since the end of 2010, which has made a certain type of vacuum suitable for various malversions. It is also an identical problem with the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights, which was elected only in October 2010, and the law prescribed a six-month period since its entry into force, which would mean again, June or July 2009. What I would like to draw in short lines as a key paper of the proposed law is to align with EU directives, a more complete and simpler definition of the client, a clearer definition of the subject-matter of public procurement, a reduction of the number of exceptions to the application of the law, a tightening of the conditions for applying exceptions, which, if not prevented, will then certainly reduce significantly the possibility for the machinations I was talking about, or named as an example. Among other things, the bill introduces clearer mechanisms to prevent conflicts of interest and corruption in public procurement and, very importantly, the public procurement of small value is also arranged in a way that enables transparency of proceedings and competition. Also, competences and powers of the Public Procurement Administration have been increased. The composition and mode of work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights has been amended and it has been given new powers, such as fines for non-compliance with the right and non-implementation of decisions, control of Commission decisions, etc., not to mention all these powers and powers of this administration. The criminal provisions of the proposed law itself are better defined than the existing law. Infringements for all serious violations of the law have been foreseen. The fines, on the one hand, are sharper, and on the other hand, ranked according to the severity of the offense. What is extremely significant is that the limitation period of the infringements has been increased to three years in relation to the existing law, as the existing law provided for the limitation period was one year. From the above, I will call on all MPs to support the proposal for a law on public procurement and to vote in favour of this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8944	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are not contentious with the DS amendment, only the Budgetary System Act prevents the adoption of such an amendment. When you raise such doubts about the quality of this law and claim that there will be no savings, I would remind you that when you proposed amendments and amendments to the Public Procurement Act, you then declared that savings would be 200m euros. Those are the words of Bozidar Djelic. I'm asking a question - what was it that you predicted by this law on amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, saving 200m euros, you didn't form this fund? I understand that someone's evolved, it's normal, and it's desirable, but I would also love it because DS has as much experience and as many years as it's been in power to give me at least one example, from the countries of the environment, it can, from all over the world, whether there's such a fund created by one of these laws. If you can find that, then we'll think about whether it's possible to change the Budgetary System Act just to accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8946	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8947	As you know, previous governments knew how to make and save, and you can easily see for yourself the various budgets of the past. Among other things, your current coalition partners boasted of their merits. Every party wanted to put that medal on their lapel, but the fact is that's what it was. I don't see why you keep making that suspicion that we doubt those savings. We're only handling what you said and promised the citizens, and what you personally, Mr. Arsic, brought here in a panel discussion. So don't you doubt our motives. You believe in 600m euros in savings. We believe that it is possible for you, here I am publicly telling you, and I ask you to accept an amendment that allows the mechanism for these funds to reach their users. That's what you're telling me, the Budget System Act doesn't make it possible. A lot of things don't allow that law. As Minister Dinkic said - there is no political will, but the will is yours, you are the strongest. Don't let us teach you everything you have to do. You need to tell him that this thing has to be accepted, that socially endangered categories have to get money from your projections, and that they need that money now that they're having the hardest time, both pregnant and unemployed and all those who are now being paid for by the Ministry of Finance in this country. We believe you. (President: Time. Mr. Arsic, this is a mechanism. Take it. What's so hard about that? Don't say which examples are comparative and where they exist. The Democratic Party is making up something good for the citizens. We're inventive, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8948	Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8949	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if the state's remaining 20 billion dinars in debt for agricultural subsidies, don't teach us that. If there are savings that there are not enough fixed funds for the unemployed, so it was already gone in March, April of 2012, do not teach us. If you've been saving by doing public work and not paying for it, don't even teach us how to run the country. We've got signs in the paper that we're fast-tracking. We don't owe each other any more. You're in charge. I'm just fulfilling your duties that we have to realize. That's what this is about. You take care of the people who are threatened financially, so where have you been? Who put them at risk? Serbian Progressive Party or anyone else? I don't mind if you stand up for those, but don't teach us how to do it. You are an example of how we should not work and believe it will not be difficult for this government to be better than the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. It's enough that she doesn't do anything and she'll be better because whatever she was doing wasn't good.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8950	Thank you. Branislav Mitrovica, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8951	I wouldn't comment specifically on the amendment. I'll just say it's extremely demagogue. I am pleased that the opposition believes and believes that at least 600m euros will be saved, but I think it is extremely incorrect to respect this government that it will not worry about the social sphere and everything that Mr Stefanovic has said. I must remind myself that by the end of this year, it was necessary to settle the debt inherited from the previous government and I do not want to absorb, or the U.S.S. that took part or one percent of the government, but did not run public finances over the past four years. Travellers expected from the last government, and only now did they get the money they earned, and the Health Insurance Fund owed a lot of money, and that's what solves this government. I think it is incorrect that, as part of this amendment, we deceive Serbian citizens that someone wants to damage them next year. I am sure that, despite a high dose of demagogy and populism, it is clear to citizens that in the past 100 days and some month more of this government sees the clear intention of introducing public finances and I am sure that the Public Procurement Act will be just a continuation of a huge problem in public finances. In many discussions today, I have not heard any serious grudges about this law, which brings me joy. One good public debate, a large number of participants who contributed is one certainty that this would be a good law. I expected more serious amendments from the first major opposition parties, not amendments to the demagogue type like this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8952	Thank you. Borislav Stefanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8953	I don't see what's demagogue in that we all agree that people in a difficult social situation should be helped, if you've already designed that savings. What's the demagogue? I can only thank you for that. You gave a super projection that 600 billion euros will save. Let's make it happen. Which is a demagogue in the effort of the DS to accept its amendment that will allow that money to come to those who need it, or you're not telling the truth, and we naively trust you, or you won't do it to help the citizens. There is no third option. As Minister Dinkic said -- there is no political will. But citizens need to know that. The previous government was in debt, for the hundredth time, I say, 44 euros a day, and this government owes 153 euros per minute. Therefore, the government now, after you say, has a terrible Mirko Cvetkovic growth in inflation, deficits, unemployment, a decline in living standards. That's real. Whether I'm right or you're right, Mr. Arsic, we're not going to judge here right now. They'll judge citizens in a month with bills for electricity and gas, with a drop in living standards, with that bill they get for their pay, what will they be able to buy? They'll be able to buy five times less things in May next year than they are now and that's a fact. You can say you're bad, you've been a bad government. (Chairman:Time. ) For the hundredth time I say, we paid the political price for patching through the parallel budget of the so-called NIP and through the transfer of funds to local self-governments that couldn't spend, and that's why we had the deficit, and that's why we had the borrowing, but we paid that price. I'm saying you don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8954	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, answer and close the circle of replicas, to allow others to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like it to be said, when it comes to these things, about how we're in charge, at least it says what the causes of the borrowing are. I just said. The government's borrowings are the commitments provided for by the 2012 Budget Law, which was voted by the former regime, which was then represented by Mirko Cvetkovic. You owe the farmers 20 billion. An empty register and debts have been found. Now you're blaming us for paying off your debts. We're in charge of the Kobajagi. We're not in charge. You're in charge. Let's see, what about these companies doing public works for the government of the Republic of Serbia. Why didn't you pay them? That worker with the 40-degree shovel, which paved the way, didn't get paid. That's what this is about. That's what we paid for. If we are wrong, look, budget projection for 2013, 3.5% budget deficit. Two times smaller than the projections in the 2012 Budget Law. Twice as much, and the state will become longer by 10% gross income. It's not the government that did it, it's the fact that the former regime was in debt. I agree that everyone should wear their cross, but don't put your cross on our backs.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8956	Thank you. I'm closing a circle of replicas. Mr. Mitrovic and Mr. Stefanovic, please allow other MPs to speak on the subject of the agenda. The word is made by MP Jovana Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8957	Thank you. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, as my colleagues from the DS Parliament Club pointed out, we have a very important law that tells us that public funds are being spent, whether the government is being a republican or local or, for example, public enterprises are dealing rationally and economically with citizens' money. I will remind you that the DS was the proposing of the first Public Procurement Act ten years ago and that we then made a major venture and did a great deal, given that there was no legislative regulation within the framework of public procurement. The area of public procurement is very complex and complex. Over time, the law has changed, unfortunately, solutions that were worse than the original law, as happened in 2004. The new law of 2008 had a number of good solutions, but it also showed shortcomings over the years, and especially when it comes to the transparency of the procedure and the fact that one quarter of the purchases were based on it without publication of a public call, and this should add a significant percentage of the restrictive procedure. The previous government led by the DS was very realistic in assessing the effects of the law at the time. As you fellow MPs know, and I hope to the general public, our government proposed in January this year a new law on public procurement, which this government has withdrawn from the procedure. We now have before us a bill that has been passed by the ruling coalition and, most importantly, in the analysis of this proposal, whether the shortcomings that have occurred so far have been removed in the current laws. So whether increased transparency, whether it could continue to abuse the possibilities of the negotiation process, whether the procedure itself has become more effective, including reducing unnecessary administration and whether it has reduced the scope of abuse of the institution of the appeal process, because, as we know, it has often been used to abuse the public procurement process itself and has led to obstruction and to the end of the implementation of the public procurement process. Also, whoever has experience in public procurement knows that the existing institutions in the public procurement system were not in coordination and that they were very often inefficient. Of course, the applicable Public Procurement Act should have been better aligned with EU directives and practices. Therefore, it is not disputed that we need a new law on public procurement, as I have already pointed out, and our government was aware of that and Parliament sent a proposal for a new law. Only the question arises – does the text of the new law of the ruling majority offer appropriate solutions and really eliminate the shortcomings observed in the application of the still applicable Public Procurement Act? As my colleague Bozidar Djelic, as an authorised representative, pointed out two days ago, there are newspapers in front of us that are positive, such as the publication of public procurement on the portal, the opening of the possibility of electronic public procurement, insistence on ecological criteria and energy efficiency criteria, and it is a particularly good proposal to publish small public procurements. On the other hand, however, the number of those activities and entities to which the law does not apply is expanding. This opens up a space for the mass abuse of Article 7, and this specifically means a wide opening of the door to corruption. Also, no experience has been introduced where there are many administrative procedures and many unnecessary documentation, which opens up the possibility of arbitrary civil arbitration and corruption space. The appeal procedure is so defined that it leaves the possibility that if someone has an interest in obstructing or even stopping the public procurement process and that bidders who have been regulatory are placed in an unequal position or being blackmailed. Unfortunately, my opinion and the opinion of my parliamentary group is that the ruling majority has missed an opportunity to correct what has in practice proved to be bad solutions either inefficient or insufficiently transparent solutions. On the contrary, I would say that a more important political campaign of pre-election promises was for the proponent, which bid on unserious promises that the new law would bring savings from 500m euros to a billion euros. It seems that the proposings do not share that optimism now. That was just said by my colleague, Borislav Stefanovic, because I am almost certain that our proposal will be rejected, and that is to form a special budget fund out of these savings, however much they may be. The DS Parliament Club proposes that funds from these savings be used for, for example, the payment of pregnant patients of 100%, to provide support for single parents or for other priority purposes. I do not believe that anyone has anything against, as we have already heard, that these funds are being used in this way, but that the ruling majority does not believe in its own pre-election promises and bids that savings are possible from 500 million, 600, 700, 740, 850, and even a billion euros, all said in the SNS election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8958	Thank you. The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic. He's not here. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8959	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to correct a colleague who spoke. He said this law has been in force for ten years. That's not true. This law seems to be on the agenda for the second time this year. We had it at the beginning of the year when the government led by the DS proposed a new law on public procurement. The law on public procurement, in the past ten years, was passed in 2002. Through practice it was seen that he had a lot of shortcomings and then he was changed. Maybe it wasn't a flaw, it was changed for other reasons. The legislator thought it should be amended, was amended in 2004. After that, we have a new 2008 law that is still in force today and has shown by practice that there are many shortcomings. We from the DS are aware of that. Every time a new law is passed it seems everything to improve the procedure, to improve the procedure, but it is not possible to do so until it is seen in practice how it works. In 2011, total public procurement in the Republic of Serbia amounted to 293 billion dinars or about 3.3 billion euros. Of which some 54% were open public calls, while some 35% were through so-called. restrictive actions hidden from the public's eyes. This tells us that about a billion euros is not best published in public. The procurement for some billion euros is not best published in public. That procedure wasn't transparent enough. This means that it is not possible then to secure the savings promised in the pre-election campaigns of individual parties, where in February of this year we had the promises of individual officials that by adopting a new law on public procurement would be 500m euros, then in April we had promises that these savings would be 600 and 700m, at the end of April 800, in May those savings came to one billion. It is clear that these were the motives that got away from the campaign and were motivated by the campaign. The existing law has many shortcomings and these are non-transparency and non-inviting, i.e. non-publishing calls for small procurement, Article 24 which has been abused and are mainly those public procurements, which have not been sufficiently transparent, carried out in public enterprises in which the procedure is not properly controlled and sufficient attention has not been paid by the competent authorities, and the law itself did not require that. The new law proposed by the ruling majority of the led SNS brings some newspapers that are really progressing in relation to the existing solution, and I am sure that even the promoters saw it, what does not work in the existing law and what needs to be changed. The previous government saw it, so it proposed changes at the beginning of the year. The most important newspaper is the introduction of a portal and publication of all calls and those small purchases. It's something that certainly brings new quality. Electronic biddings, the application of electronic administrations, also, then, environmental aspects, energy aspects, the black faces of bidders who have violated the law, also important newspapers that will contribute to quality procedures when it comes to public procurement. We certainly welcome that from the DS, but we think there is also a series of shortcomings that will make it impossible for those savings to be made as promised. That's not possible. Extending the list of exceptions in Article 7 will prevent these procurements from being carried out in a sufficiently transparent manner and will not contribute to any savings. Then, the conflict, he says -- the powers of the Public Procurement Board and the Commission for the Protection of Vendors will also not contribute to better functioning of the entire public procurement system in the Republic of Serbia. Then, additional works in construction, it's also not the best way to define the procedure, because if we cut that limit from 25% to 15%, it won't be enough, because that way we'll only achieve that the bidders will raise the starting price by 10% and we won't make any savings. What the DS is proposing to you, as applicants of this law and the legislators of the new law on public procurement, is to accept our amendment and thus help yourself and in some way confirm that your policy is being implemented. If our amendment is accepted, it will be clear how much savings have been made and you will be able, as your campaign chief has promised, to use the savings that have been made for agriculture and science, it will be possible to use those funds for these purposes for the special fund that we have foreseen. If our amendments are accepted, most of them, we will support this law, and we hope that the next step, when the DS will lead the future government of the Republic of Serbia, will be a law on public procurement that will include mandatory electronic procurement for all, and it can certainly save from 5% to 20% in all procurement, because this has been shown in practice in EU countries and institutions that have introduced such a newspaper and such procedure, because it is clear that what leads to corruption and arbitration in the work of the administration, in the work of the Commission, if we introduce electronic public procurement, we completely avoid arbitration, we avoid that anyone decides who is a qualified bidder, because we will have certificates, we will have other instruments that are independent of human will and desire to regulate the public procedure itself. Thank you. On behalf of the DS, I say once again, if we accept our amendment, we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8960	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8961	Respected chairman, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, corruption as a cancer destroys the tissue of every country by destroying, above all, its foundation, or economy. Of course, SNS recognized this subject of corruption a long time ago today as very harmful and harmful with three aspects. Harmful of the state because it destroys the state, damaged by most citizens of Serbia because it leads to an increase in the number of poor citizens and, of course, its product of corrupt activities is an extremely small number of wealthy individuals who, we assume, have acquired their vast wealth in some corrupt actions. The adoption of adequate legal regulation and implementation and the legal regulation of the SNS considers it possible to stand in the way of corruption and corruption, so it proposed a law on public procurement, which in its significant part contains provisions relating to the reduction of corruption and the reduction of conflicts of interest. I'm going to focus on part of the public procurement bill, which includes a social aspect, which is so-called. reserved purchases and related to procedures in which only institutions, organisations, associations or business entities for working training, professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons can participate. The condition is that all bidders, including subcontractors, in the total number of employees, employ 30% disabled persons. Also, from a social point of view, this bill is also important in the part of the use of technical specifications in public procurement procedures, since apart from energy and environmental characteristics, this law provides that the contracting authority is obliged to require and accessibility in technological specifications for persons with disabilities. This bill also provides for a slow situation in practice relating to cooperatives and relates to an offer which can be submitted by the cooperative on its own, on behalf of but also to a joint offer on behalf of the cooperatives. On the basis of the research conducted earlier by the SNS, it was found that the largest area for corruption, among other things, applied to small-value procurement procedures, so that this proposal defines the public purchase of small-values as the purchase of similar goods, services or works, whose total estimated value is lower than three million dinars per year. The purpose here was to misapplication of the public supply of small value, perhaps also a lack of clarity on the concept of the sameness of works, services and goods. In order to prevent vague interpretation of the concept of similarity, the proposal for this law, in Article 3, provides that this concept comes from relevant nomenclatures relating to works, goods and services. Also, as regards the public procurement of small value, it is prescribed that the contracting authority is obliged to make an invitation to submit tenders on its website, as well as on the public procurement portal. Also, the draft law in this part – public purchases of small value – enabled the orderer to issue an order order to the most favourable bidder, if the estimated value of small purchases is up to 400,000 dinars. What is very important, this bill, which refers to the fight against corruption, is certainly the Public Procurement Administration is obliged to adopt a plan against corruption and deliver it to the Government for adoption. Based on the anti-corruption plan, high-ranking customers, whose purchase value is higher than a billion dinars per year, are bringing a special internal plan to prevent corruption in public procurement. However, here it should be stressed that these anti-corruption plans are not identical with the integrity plans, which are otherwise prescribed by the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. For reasons not only to cover an overview of the existing situation and risks, they should contain concrete measures to combat and prevent corruption, they must be appropriate to the specific area, since it is not only the classical state administration, but also often business entities. What this law also provides, in Article 24, and which is also aimed at preventing corruption, is a special obligation to report corruption and compulsory protection of the so-called. alerters, especially protection against termination of contracts, protection against harassment at the workplace by the employer. The Serbian Progressive Party believes that, as far as the protection of these persons is concerned, so-called. the alarmer, their protection should also be regulated by a special law. This law will also follow sublegal acts, of course, to bring the law into force and to begin to live. Its application is expected from April 1st, precisely because it predicts that all sublaws will be brought in at that time, so there will be no interference with the application starting on April 1st.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8962	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8963	The President-in-Office, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, has repeatedly stressed the importance of the Public Procurement Act, given the area it regulates. The importance of this law is also evident by the fact that public interest has been high since this law has been in the procedure in the Assembly and that we have been discussing it the second day, with a large number of registered debaters. First, I would refer to the fact that now the applicable Public Procurement Act has been passed by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. At that time, we passed a law in the belief that he foresees the solutions that were at that point most favourable to application. As life is always more inventive than the law, in practice a series of shortcomings of the law, which made it difficult to apply it or which allowed abuses, both by the contracting authorities and by the bidders. That is why the previous one, our government launched an initiative to pass a new law, set out a proposal and let it go into the procedure at the Serbian Parliament in February. It has not been discussed by the Assembly because of the elections, and this government has withdrawn it from the procedure. I put this out because I have a need to point out that a good part of that text of the bill has been incorporated into this bill. If more was taken over from that previous text of the proposal, this text would probably be much better. Since there has already been a lot of words in the debate on the text of the bill, I will not convince it, nor analyse the individual provisions in order. I will ask a very important question – what will be good for those who are obliged to apply it, both to the contracting authorities and to the bidders, and indirectly especially when it comes to budget users and to all citizens? When seeking answers to this question, it is necessary to bear in mind that the basic objective of this law is to enable the contracting authority to obtain certain goods, services or works in the most favourable and simple way. In presenting the bill and discussion, however, much more emphasis is placed on preventing corruption and other abuses. It even came out with estimates of how much will be saved by applying this law, which is volunteering attitudes and flat-rate estimates. Preventing corruption and abuse should be an imperative of law enforcement, but not the goal of its adoption. What is good in this bill is to introduce greater transparency and the public in the public procurement process. The publication obligation is also introduced, above all, on the portal and all deadlines running, starting from the moment of publication on the portal. Conditions and basis for the introduction of electronic public procurement are being created. New important criteria are introduced, such as the ecological criterion and the energy efficiency criteria. It reduces the possibility of abuse of the appeal procedure by introducing a blacklist for those participants who commit abuses in the public procurement system. The publication of small public procurements is being introduced and a centralised public procurement administration is being formed. However, there is also a whole series of shortcomings, indeterminateness, inconclusiveness, which will surely make it difficult to enforce the law and implement public procurement procedures. Exemptions from the application of this law in Article 7 are extended, which is not in line with EU directives and opens the possibility of corrupting actions. Not enough has been completed and a member defining negotiations without publication. No administrative procedures and paperwork have been reduced, so bidders continue to deliver huge amounts of unnecessary documentation. No proposal has been accepted for bidders to submit only an offer and make a statement that they take full material and criminal responsibility that whoever gets a job in the public procurement process will submit complete documentation when they get a job. The rest of us wouldn't have that obligation. That would reduce administration. Anyone can appeal to stop the procurement process and only blackmail other bidders. Also, no definition of additional works is foreseen and there is no better control of additional works in construction, and it is known that there have been in practice a lot of irregularities and even abuse. An unnecessary obligation is introduced to deliver a large number of reports to the DRI. More powers shall be given to the Public Procurement Board, undermining the position of the independent regulatory body, the Commission for the Protection of the Providers. The criteria for selecting the president and the members of the Commission are more stringent but still not sufficiently strict to provide a sufficiently professional fit for the Commission to work. The entire system is additionally burdened with the fight against corruption by declarative provisions, leading to the risk that public procurement procedures are not implemented at all. For example, the orderer is required to provide competition, which is sometimes not possible, so there is a risk that the orderer and give up the procurement process. The adoption of a large number of sublegal acts is also foreseen, which will further make it difficult to implement this law. We DS MPs have tried to influence the amendments to improve the text, but we think that this is not enough and that some parts of the text should be systematically processed and processed, in order to get a truly quality law and fully applicable law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8964	Thank you. The next registered MP is Dragan Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8965	Dear gentlemen, when such a law comes to the agenda after only five or six years since the application of the previous law, which has been announced as a major step towards Europe, as something that will arrange Serbia and I should say fix a good part of financial relations. Then you come back after five or six years in an opportunity to reconsider it, because this particular Europe has told you that it is not right, that it is one of the corruption engines, so few of these MPs sitting in the hall here have a serious critical tone according to this proposal, but everyone in a certain way criticises the previous law. Then you realize there's something in front of you that should have been changed. The sum of these years that we have in front of us since law-making days simply points to one fact that has a mathematical sequence of 400 to 800 million is the corrupt part in public procurement. Whether it's true or not, I don't know, but it's a lot. When you add up the years you get about three to five billion euros in Serbia that went somewhere on some islands, somewhere in the wind, they end up somewhere in some people who continue to take away their property and capital from this country and this people. What could we have done with those three to five billion? We would solve Serbia's Clinical Centre, complete, we could hire at least 300,000 people to work, in that part of the economy, to turn Serbia from importing into an export-oriented economy. To improve education, to raise sport and culture, and we came into a situation to talk again at the end of 2012 about the law that we all trust and hope will be better. Personally, I think he'll be better for a few reasons. First because it will certainly reduce the level of corruption in public procurement. Because it will have this one broader public approach and greater control in public procurement. Those who are well aware of previous regulations and who know how it was done were quickly organised by a number of agencies, some institutes or some independent experts who gave reviews of the quality of the goods that entered the public procurement system. So the orderrs gave the contractors, the bidders, to prepare themselves the text of the procurement as they correspond to the materials and goods they have or to enter their import-export arrangements when it comes to the purchase of goods. It was clear in advance that the offer ended on one, or two fictitious bidders with whom it was immediately known that the price offered by them would be executed. It's just amazing that it takes five or six years, that we in this public procurement sector don't have any serious procedures when it comes to the law of criminal matter and that only now slowly, given that this new group run by the first vice president of the government is revealed many of these things. Public procurement in the area of propaganda and information is also interesting. I don't know what there is to get or get in that public information when it's clearly informed from only one corner. There's still only one corner left and no one can get into Serbia, we can just a little bit, the MPs from here to say something. Then you have great experts through some agencies who teach you through their PR managers how to live, how to walk, how to think, and of course from various ministries take huge funds, no less, but you always take 30, 40, 50, 60, hundreds of millions, as much as you need. This law will, of course, eliminate this and we will not unfortunately have wealth in that sphere, but I do not regret this gentleman, I do not regret that they have already been quite able to do so. This should be left to the people. We're well trained how we should live, we don't need to be taught by some PR managers how we're going to live, or how politically we think. I guess it's important that they leave us alone because we need it the most right now. So we're going to get more bidders, so people will be able to access that part of the public procurement more transparently and make sure they have some chance. When it comes to small purchases, it is only a matter for itself, especially in local communities, environments, health homes, medical and health institutions where no such public procurement has been shown anywhere. That was taken as agreed. As whoever arranged it, that's how it went, and then we got extras from about 30 to 40 billion dubiouss where we had to think about what to do, to get the state into a public debt system. But local communities are amazing. When it comes to one supply, one kind of goods, we have local wholesalers, the government is their private business in every city, and then you have that several businesses, i.e. urban land management companies, and then a road company, etc. Five or six companies participate in the public procurement system but all get corners to make public procurement from the same customer. It even happened to form a company on Thursday, and a contract with it was already signed Monday, and neither an open current account nor a stamp was made. Unfortunately, a number of state institutions, first of all members of the MUP, prosecutors, one, the other, the third, are all silent, think that it will take some time and that nothing should be done about it. It will eliminate this law. So when we go further into what's good about this law, that's that control system. This system of control through which we will clearly be able to realise first of all the public and through these controllers that are necessary to achieve these objectives. In the end, what I'm saying is that when we have a law like this that changes the law that has done damages from three to five billion, then it's clear that the chances in 2013, that these 400 to 800m euros of corruption will go away. I am very pleased that this law is ahead of us and that we will all support it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8966	Thank you. National MP Ljuban Panic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8967	The Honorable Chairman, how much time my MP club has left. (President: eight minutes. ) Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, I would like before my presentation on this law that everyone who celebrated Christmas on the Gregory calendar last night wish that Christmas would bring them only health and prosperity for their families. In that Christmas spirit, I'm going to talk about this law. For a year now, as on Christmas sleds, a law on public procurement has been announced that will bring 500, 600, 700 to a billion euros in savings and money for the Christmas tree to be decorated with kindergartens, schools, health homes, better roads, scholarships, smaller government etc. What in this time, and for me is the motive of the past few months, of deep freezing, because the Law on Public Enterprises has so deeply frozen hundreds and hundreds of officials who will now be so deeply frozen become absolutely unrecognizable to their local communities, and when it comes to their political colour, until they were frozen. What does this law essentially change? He is first party colored and that is not good, and I will say that it is not good because I believe that no one sitting in this assembly has an evil intention to negatively affect the lives of citizens and citizens of Serbia. All political parties, as well as the DS, were the first to start controlling public procurement in institutions when the law did not provide for it. I'll tell you that in 2003, then, Defence Minister Boris Tadic introduced the Public Procurement Administration at the Federal Defence Ministry, which was not a legal obligation precisely to prevent major abuses in the cost of citizens. This law extends exceptions to its application. This law, contrary to announcements and promises, retains the same number of procedures that happens outside the public eye. This law also brings about what Mr Dinkic called this year, said there are companies professionally engaged in destroying the tender to seek bribes. The possibility remains that any complaint can stop public procurement, and in the words of the minister, I now take that I am not an expert enough for a given area, if the minister who is sitting in the government today says that this can be abuse and that abuses are happening, I ask the question, how did the ruling majority not agree on a mechanism, how could this not happen? There is no better control of additional works in construction and to bring it down to human level, that is to say that people understand it. If in one of your villages, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, there are public procurements about the reconstruction of the homes of culture, etc., the allowed percentage of additional works from 25% to 15% is reduced. But when the basic price of these works rises by 10%, fundamental changes will not be. I urge all civil sector activists by local self-government to make a savings analysis within the next year, which will come on this basis. Finally, the DS has made the amendment submitted by Mr Djelic, which has done the ruling majority one very good thing for the ruling majority, and the potential problem for the opposition, which is that this amendment is really the Christmas tree that should be filled with gifts, which would fill 600m euros, which are the results of alleged savings by this law, you actually get. The Democratic Party proposes that we have a monitoring of the funds of these savings and that you, as the ruling majority of the amendments we have proposed in this assembly, receive a fund to prove that your savings and promises to Serbian citizens were correct. When we talked a few days ago about amendments and additions to the law that abolished the obligations of those who privatised our firms to the use of the land that these companies brought with them, they received a gift of 400m euros, so I believe that neither Serbia's citizens will receive these promised 600m euros from this law on public procurement. I'm willing to listen to the objections to the previous government for a long time from the ranks of the ruling coconut, but for six months now, there's been a struggle between the declared good intentions and practices. When it is said that the country is detached, it is actually deeply frozen, deep-frozen people, so Serbia becomes the third country in the world with the party governor, and the opposing competitions that have been brought, and before the law enters into force, party officials for directors are elected, and then the Public Procurement Act is passed which we propose to monitor how much money will be saved, because this should be the interest of all of us in this room, so you don't accept it. I would say that, as with the Aegean Channel, as with five billion euros of investment, which of those 10, was already needed in Serbia in half a year, and the pre-election promise of the largest ruling party, as well as of the department, is essentially not happening. That, so it doesn't end if we just disagree and I don't think it's going to happen, and I see that it's going to happen, I call on the citizens to be personally involved in the analysis of all this through their associations. When you don't accept budget funds, that they look at their local self-governments in the next year, to see how much the departmented public sector is, in fact, classical partization, that they see if there's been any savings from public procurement, whether public procurement in construction costs and I think they're less than they were in the previous period, and they won't be? In the end, we all hope that as MPs, we may also get an invitation to open works on a major project that should reconcile Greece and the Macedonians, which is the Aegean Channel from Belgrade to Thessaloniki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8968	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask the MPs of the DS, or former regime, to first settle things in their own backyard, and to tell us how we should solve our problems. When you touch the story of the department, it is no problem to mention at all that, let's say, our former counterpart Ciric, was the director of the Post Office of Serbia, or from which party he was the director of Telecom. If the sole objection to the proposal for a law on public procurement, that you are attacking how much savings they will be, you are simply giving us the recognition that the law is good, so good, that it has received the support of many international financial institutions, that it has received the support of the European Commission and that a memorandum has even been signed between the European Central Bank, signed by the first Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Aleksandar Vukic, that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, gives us free technical support for the application of this law. I'm still from the ranks of MPs belonging to the former regime, I haven't heard one fundamental remark about the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8970	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8971	It's really very short. Don't talk about the courtyards, Mr. Arsic. You're just making your yard now, and for now what I see in your backyard, nobody likes except a few things that seem to me like a ruling coalition, you're doing well, but a very small number. We took out our yard. We've gone out to the public and we're asking for their support, which we're going to do to fix a lot of the bad that you're doing, that's legitimate. So I wouldn't answer, except for this when you said we didn't say anything wrong with this. We said a few bad things. We even said what good things were, if you listened carefully to me and my colleague Djelic and the others. Finally, in order to contribute to making this thing better for the citizens of Serbia, to avoid here a situation where you do not insist on our proposal, but to talk about who the director was, and let's see who is now the director of various of these companies, do the singers put the directors in Željeznica, tell me? Don't talk about Brank Radyuk. It's heaven and earth, Mr. Arsic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8972	Mr. Panic, replica. Here you go. Veroljub Arsic: For what? Is it because of the interpretation of the exhibit? Is that why you're looking for a replica, I suppose? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8973	Thank you. I'm going to be very brief, without the intention of bringing a party debate here in what I called Christmas discussions. It is less important what your or your yard DS is, as you have declared, than what the courtyard of Serbian citizens will be, and this is an analysis by the opposition in every normal country based on the fulfillment of the pre-election promises. Those pre-election promises, as you did when you were an opposition, you reminded the ruling, so in this assembly, and in each of the following, the opposition to pre-election promises will remind the ruling majority. When we talk about the yard, and in the context of these public procurements, you said in the campaign not only that in public procurement it would be saved for this country half a billion euros, but that the government would also be smaller. She has one state secretary less than the last government. You promised there'd be less than 50 of the 137 agencies. These are your pre-election promises. Your pre-election promises are the department, so the governor after Cuba and North Korea is the only party governor frozen. I may not understand this freezing, but I'm pretty sure that neither the Serbian and Serbian citizens will understand it, especially when it comes down to the locals, so people recognize those people they've seen forever as Democrats or advances, or who they've seen in the past, and then see them in function. Who will normally believe that these people are deeply frozen and operated by their party membership? The law on the National Bank of Serbia on the whole story was changed three weeks after it was brought in, etc. The fundamental and most important question is where, six months after the inauguration of the President of the Republic, five billion euros in 10 billion euros a year that he promised during the election campaign. (President: Time. ) If one job costs 35,000 euros, calculate how much it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8974	Thank you, Mr. Panic. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8975	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when we touched the National Bank, on the day the current governor took office, the euro course was 119,07, and today it is 113. Calculate on the rate difference of six dinars saved by the state to repay the loan left to us by the government led by the DS. Just figure it out, you don't need it anymore. When you mention the courtyard, that you're clearing your yard I don't mind, but there is another problem, which is that Serbia's courtyards because of your authority are devastated and factories closed and workers without a job and states in debt. That's right. Not to mention 200,000 jobs to get the president of the DS to run the state and never gave up the post of president of the DS. What's the president? What does the Constitution reflect? Is he the president only for the Democrats or for all the citizens? You've caught all the instruments of power and you can attack your coalition partners as long as you want. If they were no good to you, why were you with them? If not, why does this government have much better results than the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic for a short period of time? You don't need anything else, just open the paper and read the popularity of SNS. I don't need to tell you anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8976	The line was reported by MP Borislav Stefanovic and MP Ljuban Panic. I can only give one right to the replica. Make up your mind. The word is Mr. Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8977	I think it's a clear thing that in this situation when many courtyards are abandoned in Serbia, it would help if they weren't abandoned if you adopted our amendment. I'm asking you again and I insist you tell me why you don't want your 600m-euro projection to transfer people to those abandoned backyards to solve them? This Mirko Cvetkovic and his government, you keep going into the debate. I don't understand at all if you understand that citizens have nothing more than that. They are now living under your government for months in a worse situation, with higher inflation, with higher VAT, with higher borrowing, with a higher deficit, falsely designed. We don't talk bad about coalition partners, it's government, it's you. In August of the month, when he was Mr. Wolf, I told you and him that you were all power to us, gentlemen. Who you're with, who you're with. We know it best. We've been through this, and then I begged you not to accept everything you're asked to do. They love it and they do it all the time. They made us that deficit. That's what I'm telling you, but your stories -- on the brink of bankruptcy, it's all destroyed, have only led to the fact that few investors have escaped from Serbia. Commend to foreign investments now. Zero. Tell the citizens what inflation is. Are we record-writers? That's what you say. We're record guys. Shameful Mirko Cvetkovic saved Serbia from what it now survives. Citizens need to know what will happen to them with the growth projection of the prices you set for both the energy and the rest.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8978	Thank you. MP Veroljub Arsic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8979	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to remind you that, I think, in June, inflation was 6%. So by June, inflation in Serbia was 6%. It's December 13. If nothing else, at least half of the inflation is from the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. When we mention foreign investors, first of all I have to say that investors from here began to flee when no agreement on the support and liquidity of the National Bank and the exchange rate of the euro with the IMF was signed. In defence of the course, due to the mistrust of foreign investors, Mr. Soskic spent 1.3 billion euros and did not save the course. The investors didn't run under us, but while you were in power. Because no longer running the course is lower, and no single euro from the foreign reserve has been spent to preserve the course. If nothing else, at least admit it. We can always talk about one government, another government, etc., but these are the results. If you're talking about inflation, so the inflation didn't start in August of the month, it started since January. In June there was exactly half of this inflation. We couldn't stop it. The government can take full responsibility from January 1st next year. Otherwise, if we had continued your policy, we'd have made the continuity of the government, as you like to say, if we had foreign reserves today and what would be the rate of the euro. Each country and its investor rating is measured by how much financial stability it has, and we managed to get interest from 7.6% to 5.5%. (Chairman: Mr. Arsic, I ask you best to return to the topic. I'm talking about public procurement, which is the consequence of the adoption of a law like this. I'm talking about consequences. So that's the only part where we've been able to fix the score and it's not a small thing for a future. Don't worry about foreign investments, they'll be much more in a much shorter period than they were during the previous government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8980	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Nikolic. He's not here. The next speaker is MP Dragan Todorovic. Your parliamentary group has five minutes and 30 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8981	And thanks for the obligation to give other colleagues the opportunity to say something else, I'll be very brief. This government, after 12 years of ruling the DS that has created politics in the past 12 years, has found the state in which Serbia is today. Best to read this situation is one example from Pirot when at the time of Christmas fasting, one local television from Pirot made a survey asking citizens if you fasted and if you respect Christmas post. One blanket said - son we've been fasting for the last 10 years because we don't have the money to buy meat. It's the result of your rule. You're the Labour Act, the Privatization Act, the Public Procurement Act, whatever it is, that led to a huge flow of social capital into individual pockets. When you talk about how to clean up your yard, look among yourselves, see if there are people among you who boasted until yesterday that they made $11 million sleeping on a ottom in your aunt's house, see if it's due to good policy or not. Then take care of whether this government will have good intentions and whether some grandson of yours who still believes in Santa Claus will give a lecture here that the bad intention of the Proposer of the Public Procurement Act is not going to be able to make it any better. Yes, gentlemen. If we were more concerned about the Socialist movement, and we're going to ask ourselves, there would be more radical moves than this bill, because we would provide justice and justice for which this people cry out after 12 years of the rule of the DS, in a much more efficient, Putinski way, than they are now provided. The time will come, and you will have to look at yourself and look back a little bit, to see what the results of the government have done. It's like you've been suffering from amnesia like you haven't been in power for 12 years. Gentlemen in Serbia, there has been a major change and this Law on Public Procurement is just an attempt to move forward in one area of social life. It will be made, and make sure that after this law, there will be another set of laws in the same sense. I have to say that in the area of public procurement, let's say in Pirot from which I come, one very interesting thing has been recorded, where, according to your 2011 law, a complete audit of all public procurement was carried out, and it was concluded that no public procurement was carried out in accordance with the law. So, those laws you've passed, you've made no difference. You didn't apply them. Now you honor us, one ugly expression or preach what we should do and what our good or bad intentions are. Gentlemen, the effects of this government and these laws will be visible in five or six months. It can't all change in a very short time since this government was formed. What matters to Serbia is that Serbia has moved forward and will continue that path.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8982	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8983	At the time of your former party and your former life, public procurement did not exist. That was science fiction for you. I think it's a little immoral for you to tell us here about the rule of the DS with the persuasive accent. We're talking about public procurement. You didn't say a word until the end. It doesn't really make sense. I explained that we wanted to see that our amendment was adopted, I explained why it was good for Serbia and for those who were socially endangered, and who you say are close to your party. It really doesn't make any sense that you remind us where Serbia is going, whether it goes forward. She only went back with you and the four-legged ones. We can't recover from it today. If I have to put up with what the former radicals say, at least the people were principled, so they stood at their point of view that there was nothing and that there was nothing but a fist. Remember where you were and what you were doing. For Pirot, please contact the U.R.S. Don't talk to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8984	The word is by MP Zoran Babic, a replica on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8985	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, let's demystify the background of the proposed DS amendment. The DS doesn't care and doesn't care about the endangered, or about agriculture, or where they end up with money from that fund, and from that sub-account. This fund and this sub-account are proposed to measure savings and that you can aim at SNS tomorrow and say – this is what you said and you have fulfilled this much. We're not running away from it. However, insistence on this amendment, in my humble opinion, is too masochistic on your part. If the savings can be made, and they will be made and visible, then I can ask you freely, who is responsible for the past ten years? Who's responsible, why hasn't that money gone to the vulnerable for ten years, not to go to the farm, not to go where he was supposed to go, but to end up on what sides and I don't know what private accounts? Are you ready for such an act to come to the name and last name of the most responsible? If you're ready then fine, but don't make this just a attempt to transfer hot potatoes to the SNS yard. Another brief finding and one brief thought. It is, if your former partners from the former government of the Republic of Serbia were the generator of all these borrowings, why were all of us, then why were the citizens of the Republic of Serbia exposed to one soap opera, one saga in June and July when a new government was tried to form whose mandate Boris Tadic was supposed to be? Why were you after them then?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8986	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic, after being replicated by Mr. Babic on behalf of the parliamentary group, I don't think you should replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8987	Since I am obviously misunderstood by the head of the Parliament Club, I must give an explanation. It's an explanation regarding the essence of my presentation on the DS amendment. It is not disputed that you as an opposition have the right to propose amendments, so did we when we were the opposition. The intention of these amendments is contentious. First of all, this is about a debate in principle, not in particular, so you'll have a chance to talk about the amendment. If you have a really good desire and a good will to provide funds for the social needs of citizens, secure them or make a bill that will confirm your will, which will be taken away from those who illegally acquired it. It is not normal for someone to acquire assets of several tens of millions of euros and to perform only a few government functions. Take away property from such individuals as you have in the party of the tusk and darkness and we will, in this way, provide, as the state of our common courtyard, not according to the European model, but according to the American model. We'll really be in one situation where we have enough money to finance non-consumption or construction of some objects that will satisfy some cultural needs, but we'll be in a position to develop an economy. That's what you haven't been doing and what you've been wasting your time on citizens and citizens as one of the previous speakers has said. We don't like it, and that's what we're telling you is not good. Your desire to improve the social situation seems a little hypocritical, now 12 years after your reign. At best, I won't talk about who the former party is, I remember when a man from your ranks came from the front lines to this country as your foreign expert, so it led to disastrous consequences for the Serbian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8988	Mr. Stefanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8989	For the first time this year, I think Tiger Pirot is in a blockade, so you can work it out by waiting for the coalition to work out well. Otherwise, 12 years in Serbia's power is only Rasim Ljajic. Mladjan Dinkić, but in different forms he appears both in nature and in politics. As for the budget, let's say in 2010, the numbers don't lie, the Ministry of Serbia, 47 billion, agriculture 25 billion, economy 41 billion. From budget to budget, year to year the same story. Agriculture 32, economy 46, infrastructure 23 billion. Look, from budget to budget. Then, when the elections ended, when each of the strong parties tried to find partners, that's true, when we were looking for each other and chasing to make the best government in the interests of the citizens and implement the programme, that's true and when we opened the cards and you and we, so when we were asked for what was asked of you, we said "no" and you made a government with a man who said, completely public and everything is fine, legitimate thing, I want to control the economy, the full economy, the finances, all the flows in this country I want to control me. You said "okay." That's why you have a government like this now, gentlemen. Don't blame us for not agreeing to blackmail. Don't blame us now for everything that was wrong in this country in the previous period, because citizens at this point, as they listen to us now, are looking at their empty wallet, and what do you think, is the first thing they think - this Borko has emptyed it for me or think of some who are now with you in the government, including you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8990	Thank you. Branislav Mitrovica, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8991	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. - a violation of dignity. I think it is extremely incorrect to mention some people in a negative context and insult them from the speaker of the Republika Srpska Assembly, especially because they are not there. On the other hand, I would briefly comment on the amendment and say the following thing – so much concern for the social welfare, social cases, endangered categories, we certainly support, but where were you, gentlemen of the DS, and why did you not propose such a fund when it amounted to over 500m euros from Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank? Why didn't you suggest that this stolen money be placed in some fund and shared with the most endangered categories of this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8992	Thank you. Mr. Mijatovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8993	I've already intervened several times when it came to how many people were in power. I want you to know that in this parliament SDPS has entered only now. We've been around for two years. Our leader is Rasim Ljajic. I'd like my friends from DS, who I've been campaigning with together, who I shared the same values with, for the campaign, we've been good to you. You've been climbing the results of Rasim Ljajic, and now it bothers you. I'm sorry, we exist here to work for the citizens of Serbia, for those citizens who are sick, who are because of this government that has come to a very difficult situation. That's why we act and work in parliament. We'll be critics as much as the opposition, as much as the positions, and we are the position as much of our responsibility in this government. As you know, Rasim Ljajic was the best rated minister. You accepted him in the campaign, we worked together. Now I ask the question – what am I disturbing you now, and all the results he's achieved, then it didn't bother you? I'm just asking you to let us do our part of the job, and we're ready for it, and we'll always be constructive in all jobs, anyone suggested, a position that you and I are part of as opposition, when you propose something that is very important, very important to this people. That's what we're looking at, and that's what we're going to appreciate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8994	In order to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly, and given that we are away from the topic, we move on to the next speaker, and this is Mr. Marijan Risticevic. You have two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8995	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's DS and they know that through the Law on Privatisation, the Law on Public Enterprises, through public procurement, they've basically robbed this people and it doesn't take much to explain it to them. They robbed millions to be millionaires and today we have two kinds of people -- several thousand of them who have all seven million people who don't have everything. During their rule of public procurement, most of them were state secrets, and their state secrets were public. They left the country without a state, so now they have to tell us about how the people are looking at an empty wallet. Do you know, gentlemen of the DS, why the people are looking at an empty wallet? Because you filled your wallets and your bills and your safes. You've left the state without state and I've had enough of your morality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8996	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) National MP Bojan Kostresh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8997	Thank you. On behalf of LSV, I'm going to say a few things about this Public Procurement Act. Since the very adoption of the first Law on Public Procurement, which was brought in 2002, I have had the honor and pleasure to support this law and to participate in its adoption. The basic idea of the legislator was to introduce order in this area and to prevent corrupt actions that were present. We didn't have any clearly defined principles, we didn't have a regulated area in these affairs, and there was, I'd say, some kind of powerlessness. It's just that we haven't been able to control the situation. Much of the state money was poured out just because the Public Procurement Act didn't exist. I don't mean to say that every procurement that was made at the time was misused, I don't want to say that all these purchases were bad, but there was one strong impression that abuses existed. That's why the first Public Procurement Act was brought in. That's when the first rules were laid down. Every new written law on public procurement is in fact an attempt to make legal regulation in this area advances. That's how I feel about this law. I think it should be said that he has certain improvements, that he has certain qualities, that he has covered certain areas that were not properly regulated by the previous law and that should be welcomed. Of course, I'll talk more about those things that bother me and why I and my colleagues and colleagues from LSV, unless our objections are adopted, we won't vote. The most important thing most often mentioned, when it comes to the adoption of this law, is abuse and corruption. I am really sorry that the government of the Republic of Serbia, which I supported as an MP in the previous term, the government of the Republic of Serbia led by Prime Minister Cvetkovic, did not spend enough energy and energy to deal with corruption. I think stories about the previous government being corrupt don't stand. There was corruption, as it exists today, and corruption is the disease of this society, which must be eradicated. Therefore, Parliament should help all together with one of the greatest monsters and problems in our society to cope with this bill of law and other bill proposals. The current government is fighting corruption much more aggressively. I want to believe it does it honestly, to work to deal with the problems that exist in our society. In a year, a year and a half or two, when we sum up all the results of the fight against corruption of the current government, we'll be able to talk a little bit more about these things. In any case, we should welcome the idea of fighting corruption. I think it is a problem that must be eradicated by the joint action of all of us, because we will come into a situation that, if corruption remains a model of behaviour in the Republic of Serbia, we will greatly deny the chance for Serbia's reform and for Serbia's European future. I hope that this law will not be a law that has a lot of populist intentions in it, and therefore I support my colleagues from the DS to determine what is the profit and how that gain will be allocated, or what is the savings. That seems like a very good idea to me. I would hate for this law to experience an infamous episode, which, in my opinion, has been previously adopted by the Law on Public Enterprises, where all doors and mouths have been announced and departisciated, and the introduction of human beings that will not be influenced by political parties, and European standards. All this has been announced by this law, the law has been passed and then the largest number of directors of public enterprises has been appointed under the old law. So, it's a message -- it's a great law, it's great European standards, it's a great department, but it's gonna leave it to some of the next government, some of the next MPs, that they're dealing with it, some of the next people, and we're still going to apply the old law that we adopted and to the most critical, and we've announced that we're going to change it because we're different. I sincerely hope that this law on public procurement will not experience this kind of practice and that all the positive measures that have changed in this law will apply, and that we will have a report on whether, in the way DS suggests it, or in some other way, but that we will have a constant notification of how much these savings have been made and what has been done with these savings. I think that's the thing that MPs and LSV MPs support. It's important to introduce responsibility into this law, even criminal responsibility, as a LDP colleague said this morning, why not? Why not criminal responsibility, because I think it's necessary to put into the minds of people who do this job and who could be highly corrupt, that it can be held accountable and that it exists in the law, so that we can once again draw attention to how much we want to deal with abuses in the application of this law. Some concepts in the law itself, in my opinion, are not clearly precise enough. I'll talk about it a little bit. I think their more precise definition could make some quality solutions. You know, when you get into a situation where you have the possibility of a different interpretation, then you can make different decisions. I think you could define the relevant market more precisely and thus prove that it is comparable to the relevant market. I think the client in some document would be obliged to show a comparable price and in what cases. Unless there is a clear definition of these concepts, there could be malversions. I'm not precisely defined what these are important and what are the irrelevant shortcomings? Again, you can define essential and non-essential shortcomings to influence the creation of an image of one who could be a more favourable bidder. I think a better and more precise definition could achieve a better effect. An unusually low price is provided that the contracting authority may reject the offer due to an unusually low price, but if it significantly deviates from the market and the market price is comparable, but it is not defined how will this normal low price be determined and how much is it? Is that 5%, is that 30%, is that 70%? Again, I think it can be manipulated if it is not clearly defined. The transparency of electronic bidding is more than an important factor in preventing the possibility of corrupting actions, and I think that in this part of the law some things could have been more precisely defined. I don't know why the client should be obliged to allow only those participants, only the bidders? I think it would be useful to allow the data to be accessed by all interested persons. I think we've often been able to, sometimes because of the lack of information, run a public campaign, create conspiracy theories, create a bad otter by some jobs that may not be so bad to the end. It was once shown that, in the extreme instance, these laws, or procedures that were the subject of low campaigns, were neither against the law nor to the harm and expense of citizens and citizens, but again the rule of great fame was made. That's why I think this way we'd avoid malicious comments from the process, and hence, it would be impossible to make such a negative otter. I don't know why the job manager isn't obliged to assess the estimated value, or to publish the estimated value of public procurement? I think that since we all have the ambition to fight corruption and to cut corruption in the bud, if we published one such information, or if we were to put the job manager in charge of publishing the estimated value of public procurement, we could immediately have governmental restrictions dealing with monitoring, and the non-governmental sector would be able to clear that whole story. We could say right away – this public procurement is wrong, or something with this public procurement is suspicious, from the very estimated value of public procurement. I think it's one of the arguments that should be adopted. On the other hand, it is a public secret that many companies, i.e. many companies involved in supplying state-owned companies, companies subject to this law on public procurement, spend energy, spend time establishing some communication with people, having their own people in the companies of the contracting authorities, so that they can find out in advance what the value of public procurement will be and that they can act accordingly. That, in my opinion, opens up the possibility of a corruption, or, even, bringing into a situation that might be suspicious, that we don't always talk about it being more or more corrupt. Third thing. In conflicting procurement, that firm that's been carrying out that procurement for years, or it has information on what's the estimated value, or any experience, all those companies that want to get involved in the business, they don't have that information, and I think it would be useful. With more information from this guy and that character, I think we'd open up the competition. By opening up competitiveness, we would certainly bring a useful result to the client and help him to do such a thing. Some of the changes I would introduce and what I would define are that the client is obliged, not to be able to enter into a competitive documentation to specify the type of financial security funds, by which they provide the bidder with the fulfilment of their obligations in the public procurement process, as well as the fulfilment of its contractual obligations, i.e. for reimbursement and advance payment. This would guarantee the bidders that the client will pay for the purchase. There's one security detail in this whole business. The definition of a citizen's supervisor says there's no right to compensation. Maybe you should think about it. Simply, every time you don't have the right to compensation, you open up the possibility of some manipulations and things that wouldn't be in favor of the client. A claim for protection of law, in my opinion, cannot be partially adopted. The application for protection of rights is adopted in general, and the procedure is then repeated in part or in general. It's the same one of my remarks. I noticed one contradiction in article 64, which says in the first position – the estimated value of public procurement is shown in dinars, without VAT. The second writes – the estimated value of public procurement covers the total payable amount of the bidder. It seems to me that the payable amount referred to in Article 2 is the estimated VAT value. Maybe I'm wrong. Also in Article 149, if I wasn't reading right now, my first, third, ninth position is illogical, but I don't want to take the time. This was my try. My colleagues and colleagues will try to draw attention to how a law can be improved in particular through amendments. Of course, LSV is ready to support both this law and any other law that makes sense, in case our initiatives and our proposals are supported. This is an area where we have to spend a lot of energy and I think a lot of things in the state of Serbia should be improved and better done. This does not mean that the current government, Mr. Cvetkovic's government, has not done its job well. The mistakes made by the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, which I supported as an MP, were that of the citizens who assessed these mistakes in the way they assessed. Today we are in opposition. I do not accept that everything that has been done has not been done with the desire to improve the quality of life of Serbian citizens, to improve Serbia's European perspective and to do some of the jobs that were necessary. Every new law on public procurement, and I'm sure it will be, because this is neither the first nor the last Law on Public Procurement, should take advantage of all of our experiences that we all have, in order to improve this area and thus help the more efficient functioning of the public sector in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8998	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u8999	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to clear a few things up, at least when it comes to the law. The amendment tabled on an unusually low offer was the subject of the talks, but whether the law should limit the right of those who carry out the procurement procedure by a certain percentage. It seems to me that 20% is proposed if the price falls away from the real market. Isn't it unusually low bid and 19%? I think that's where we should leave the public procurement that according to its estimates and knowledge, I'm looking for a report on what kind of offer it is, otherwise that provision is prescribed by the old Public Procurement Act. When it comes to offerings with VAT and without VAT, there are certain economic rules that already exist. You, when you invoice the goods, have a special item – service or goods, and then as an additional item, is the VAT bill and eventually the collection of services or goods from VAT. When it comes to criminal law, it was an idea, the urgency of breaking up with parallel legislation. We only had alterations and additions to the Code here a few days ago. In these amendments and additions adopted, Article 22 is added to the title – Abuse of public procurement. Article 234a – a responsible person in a business or other business entity having the property of a legal person or undertaking, which is in connection with public procurement, who submits an offer based on false data, or in an unauthorized manner deals with other tenderers, or undertakes other illegal actions in order to influence the decision-making of the contracting authorities, will be punished by imprisonment, etc. Now we have attitude 2, 3, 4. This has already been regulated by the law that should regulate criminal provisions for breach of the Public Procurement Act. That the previous government is not corrupt, are we going to talk about an affair that is related to Agrobank? It is impossible to disappear from one bank 300-350m euros and that the state is not responding to it unless there was a rope between those who led and allowed that money to disappear and someone from the government of the Republic of Serbia. Are we going to talk about the Dulic affair? Are we going to talk about Sasha Dragin's affair? They're all ministers of the former. Will we be in the next debate to be launched here about the Development Bank, the AP Vojvodina Development Fund? How come the Vojvodina Development Bank stopped being liquid? Where's that money? These are all state institutions, whether established by the Republic or an autonomous province or having some other form of state property. I can't agree that the previous government wasn't corrupt. I'm not saying all government ministers were corrupt. I'm just about to claim that one party, that everyone in that party is a thief. You'll never hear that from my mouth. The fact is that those who exercised public authority, at least one part of them, broke the law. In this government, I don't mind, we're fully aware, no political party can, not one politician forever to be in power and to be protected through executive mechanisms. Here you are, gentlemen, whether in four, five, six, ten years, someone will control what this government hasn't controlled for itself, but believe it won't be much to control. Very little. Then we can discuss it, but so far, all the indicators are saying that there has been no corruption in this government until today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9000	Thank you. Mrs. Gojkovic, I apologize. You've been on the word list. But I saw it wrong. There's only one minute left for your parliamentary group. So you have another minute. If you'd like me to give you a later word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9001	I would like to thank the chairman for his mistake. So, since I am the last in line to be reported in the principled search of the Public Procurement Act, I will try not to be a proponent of the proverb - the repetition of the esmatra studiorum and not to repeat everything that was heard in the day and a half of the debate. Simply, it is fascinating that some MPs avoid discussing where the money is from 600 to a billion euros that disappears annually in public procurement. That is to say, not only the legislators, but also the 2011 World Bank report, as well as the European Commission, which gave its report on Serbia's progress in 2012, which has been discussed in relevant places and which clearly state that public procurement administrations have seen irregularities for 2011 at the level of the amount.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9002	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9003	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, here we are at one point interesting, I think, for our parliamentaryism. A colleague from LSV reminded me that I had the honour of being the author of the first law on public procurement ten years ago. I'm following this subject. It seems to me that for the first time here, one opposition party has proposed a mechanism that will be able to prove that the party in power was right and that it benefits itself, and much more importantly that it benefits the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. All this year, and just before that, we heard that the law that will propose SNS will provide savings between 600 million and 1,000 million euros to our citizens on an annual basis. Therefore, I appeal to the SNS, to parties forming this majority and other opposition parties, to support our amendment. This amendment is an amendment to goodwill. He's fair. He suggests a legally justified and logical way to check whether what the promoter said, as a crowning reason, is to bring this law, which is this savings, reality or not? The only way to know if this is true or not is to adopt the amendment, because we're bringing it now after the budget, to vote all together afterwards. I repeat, DS, if you adopt an amendment that will be reduced to a rebalanced budget for which we will vote all items for 600m euros, and a budget fund appears in the same amount, where the finance minister of each quarter will come to this high House to explain whether there are savings or not, we will vote... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... for public procurement law and we'll vote on budget rebalances. In this way we will have a new moment, where for the purpose of one law, for one public policy we have a mechanism to check whether what the promoter said is true or not. Don't run... (President: Thank you, Mr. Djelic. )......................................................................................................... of your own success. Accept our amendment, and if this is a success, we'll congratulate you on that. If you don't propose to adopt the amendment, it seems to me that this is evidence that you never... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9004	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9005	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the previous speaker, as one of the creators of the consolidated vault, etc., should also know as former finance minister and as former Deputy Prime Minister, we will not talk about aunts, we need to know that savings are not measured only in the Republic of Serbia's budget. These savings are also planned for public enterprises that are not financed from the budget. The savings are also planned for local self-governments that are financed only in part from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The savings were planned in public enterprises where the founder of the AP is, where he is the founder of local self-government units. We're talking about those savings. You wanted to use one story about one law as a political story in terms of how much savings there would be. I don't mind, it's your right, but what is the primary objective of the Public Procurement Act? The first and primary objective is for the state and state authorities to buy goods or services at the price that is real and marketable. That's the basis of this whole story. So if you want to buy a phone for the office, buy it at that price that's real, not pay it 30% more, like it's been so far. You also know that this old law is in place by 31 March 2013, while all the authorities that are to implement the new law on public procurement are not being established. You know well that even when they are established, there is an initial period of stalking and creating legal practice. You also know well that the most serious savings this law needs to produce will occur when the law enters full application and no different. You know all that. Now, at this point, I'm talking about 2013, unfortunately, one part of the budget spending and other users of public funds, will be spent under the old law, so that we, not only did we not carry out the assessment, but we gave an expectation of how much savings there would be. That's two big and different things.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9006	Thank you. National MP Djelic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9007	Mr. Arsic, no problem. If you're already down on your knees and you see that out of these 600 million euros there's nothing, give me the number, how much can you do next year? Here, I'll change my amendment, 300, 400. Remember, according to the public finances nomenclature, yes, I said it would save all the customers, I did not say where, and it is quite possible that you have a budget fund that is at the level of the department of finance, and that it is spent not only on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but that there are transfers to other levels of government. That's possible. We're open to discussion, but don't run away from your responsibility. You told the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this text that you will vote for and if you adopt such or somewhat corrected amendments as we have proposed, we will vote and I will be in this home with my colleagues from the DS, to congratulate you on your savings next year, but do not reject the mechanism, because everything you have now said does not go against this principle that we have proposed and because of that, if you believe in your own law and your promises at all, accept the amendment or correct it somewhat. We'll back it up. Don't run away from responsibility because, otherwise, it seems to me that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will see that this was first of all a marketing trick, something you said to say, something like this department, something like this channel to the Aegean Sea, something like the 10 billion-euro investment every year. Don't be so early in your term as to show you're in no condition to keep your promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9008	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9009	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask not to put some words in my mouth that have never been spoken by the SNS, but I have now finally realized that this amendment cannot be accepted. Not only is it not in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, but you are entering the right of the local self-government unit, which is, excuse me, Mr Djelic, I cannot characterise as anything but the collapse of the constitutional-legal order in Serbia. You know, we'd have big problems with the European Commission if we made local self-government do something like that. Their position is defined by the Constitution and law, and we have no right to interfere. We can only transfer our responsibilities to them and transfer jurisdiction to give them certain confidential incomes, so that they can execute those delegated powers. You know that, too. Now at once, let us make them rule. I don't mind, but believe me, it's already not in accordance with the law, with the Constitution. Our knees don't kneel, I just know that many of the former regimes shake hands because they've been pushed where they shouldn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9010	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9011	Mr Arsic, stay away from the European Commission, you let them go. We're making a law here for Serbia. What the European Commission says is that there are certain directives. They never said there was no way to establish a mechanism to see if there was any or no savings. You won't be in this area of local self-government. No problem, let's start with the Republic. Give me your number, give me your mechanism. I've heard no argument against our amendment. I haven't heard any arguments valid. This is an amendment that allows you to show that you were right. Why are you running away from it? You adopt the amendment, and if you succeed we will admit it first, but I am afraid, as you show here by saying about some vault accounts, about some European Commission, about some aspects of the Constitution that are not at all in this amendment, you are already running away from your promises, running away from your responsibility, and it is not good and it is not good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and in this very clear case very well seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9012	Mr. Arsic, please respond and close the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9013	I'll only end up in one sentence. Why are you in the DS running to admit that this is the best law on public procurement you've ever had in your hands?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9014	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9015	During the day, we had a very good and constructive discussion, which is obvious. You will agree that most parliamentary groups have made it clear that this is a good law and much better than the previous law, if we exclude some daily political remarks and daily political bickering, which, of course, will not enter, which is good, into the final solution of this law. We have generally agreed that this law will also make the savings that has been made so far by both corruption and negligence in the area of public procurement. We have also heard from opposition parties, that they expect such savings of 600m euros and more, which is very good, but is implementing fears that this money will not be spent properly. I have to take the opportunity to convince all those people who don't believe and who are afraid that in some corrupt way that money will be spent. Considering all the force this government is fighting against corruption, and I'm going to have to mention again "Agrobank" and "Development Bank", which will still be spoken of today, as the beginning of this honest fight, believe me, every penny saved from public procurement will be spent in the right way. We are safe, and this is important for us and for the URS and for our partners in this government, that this is a good law, a law supported by a large number of people working directly with public procurement on a daily basis, but that only the first step is important and perhaps more important for us is that second step of applying the Public Procurement Act. Because people with bad intentions in law enforcement are already reading the law and looking for certain opportunities to abuse it. I am sure that this government and all those authorities that are scheduled to implement this law will do their job properly and well and that everyone from the law will get what they expect, and we expect much more transparency, we expect much more competitiveness, and therefore more significant savings for the budget. We expect a clear message from all those people who are willing to invest in our country, and the Law on Public Procurement, as one of the generators of corruption, was their obstacle. We expect this to be just one step in introducing order into public finances, started by this government. I say once again, if we exclude these daily political remarks and proposals that are more of a matter of daily policy rather than some concrete desire to improve the text of the law, because, frankly, I have not heard any concrete serious proposals, except for some, I am sure that the interest of Serbian citizens is to support all parliamentary groups in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9016	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9017	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Madam Chairman, do not kneel to those who are 41% in support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but therefore, according to my distinguished counterpart, Arsic, sweats hands to those who are daily because of their actions or actions from the past are sweating hands. Whether it's fear or running away from responsibility, I don't know. The SNS estimate that under this Public Procurement Act can be saved and that 600m to a billion euros will be saved is also established in a statement published today by Council President Dri, Mr Sretenovic. He said that the control of 122 entities in 2011 established irregularities of 47 billion dinars. Forty-seven billion dinars or slightly more than 400m euros are irregularities in control of only 122 entities. How many municipalities and cities in Serbia? How many public enterprises and public institutions are subject to this control? If 122 irregularities are over 400m euros, do you need any more evidence? Do you think, Mr. Djelic, that we are children here, that we will play now to prove who is what and how? What I asked you earlier, are you ready for the responsibility of having 400m euros in public procurement irregularities in only 122 entities that the DRI managed to control in 2011. Who's responsible for this? Serbian Progressive Party? Of course not. Why were these irregularities? They can only be for two reasons – either it's a human factor or it's a law. We're changing the law. If it is a human factor, of course they will have to respond and if they are members of the SNS or any other party. That is why we are asking for the support of everyone in this parliament, to change the law, that the DRI never comes before the citizens of Serbia, never before this parliament with such devastating data. What more evidence is needed, which sub-calculation, what kind of play and play the last few days is it necessary for this law to be passed, in order to come into force as soon as possible? Unfortunately, it will enter into force on 31 March 2013, in order to be applied in full capacity. What matters to us is the essence, not the form, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9018	Thank you. The word is Mr. Djelic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9019	Not only is no one running away, but no one can run away. If any irregularity is observed, those who have made it must respond. You started again by saying you believed in 600m to 1,000m euros in savings. Therefore, there is no reason to refuse a fair proposal to simply in reality check whether it is true or not. The Democratic Party has proposed another amendment, which we will discuss when the time comes, so that application does not begin on March 31st, but rather earlier, so that the savings for the citizens are even bigger and faster. And that's possible. Therefore, we are open to discussing our proposal. He's fair and he's in the interest of our citizens. You took a large part of the solution in this law from the law we proposed in January of last year. It's not a problem. This is important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and it would be absolutely incomprehensible that a party that has been talking about it for a year and a half, even now a few seconds ago, that they can realise the savings of 600m euros, somehow hesitates to accept a mechanism that will show that it is true. We don't offer a mechanism here to show that something that you're going to do is going to be bad, we're proposing a mechanism here that what you're going to do is going to be good. Accept the mechanism. You have no reason to doubt, except for what you claimed to be true a few minutes ago. Let us all, on behalf of all our citizens, declare this law, when you adopt this amendment, to declare the budget rebalance, where at the level of the budget of the Republic of Serbia and other levels, we will reduce the item per item. Give me your proposal. Here, let your finance minister come out or any other minister and let him say, we'll cut down here and for so much. If you can't make 600 million euros, make it less. Give the number to start with, and then maybe in 2014 there'll be more and then we'll follow this law. Do not be afraid of a fair proposal, a well-intentioned proposal, to see if what you have announced as a benefit to our citizens is true or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9020	Thank you. The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9021	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really don't understand things anymore. The government has proposed amendments to the Law on Public Procurement in January of the month, I think. As expected effects of the law were some savings. It seems to me that 200m-euro savings are being talked about. The Democratic Party, which was then the head of the government, did not give the amendment to the law proposed by Mirko Cvetkovic. And now they want what they missed, we accept. So there's one more political story here that has nothing to do with the Public Procurement Act. I'd like someone to say in that true form what are the faults and inconsistencies of this law. Stay away from how funds from the budget that are being made, the savings that are made in the application of this law, you want to determine how they will be spent. That right still belongs to the authorities. Now, whether it's better to give one-time help or multiple, or invest in agriculture, invest in industry, invest in new jobs and reduce the number of persons in need. I think this is more important, and what you're proposing is nothing else I can call but one of the most common political games.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9022	Thank you. Mr. Djelic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9023	We're making progress. Does the budget need to be put forward by the government? Absolutely, this is your chance now, you have most of it in this home. Here, we've proposed to amend some intentions here. We suggested that such savings be spent on families, on agriculture, on economy, on infrastructure. If anyone in this esteemed home has a better idea, go ahead. In the end, of course, you'll propose a budget. We'll vote for it. So if you're saying now that this mechanism didn't exist before, and this is better, then take better. Why don't you want to be better? Introduce mechanisms to monitor what was said in the political conflict during the election campaign. Prove it, here we give you the mechanism, as a former finance minister I suggested an absolutely valid way to do it. Here and let it be a habit that every time a minister says savings will be so much, that at the same time we are all here looking on behalf of all our citizens, whoever they voted for, there is always a way to check it out. If that's not realized, we're wondering if maybe it wasn't in the case of good application, so let's change application, that maybe the mechanism wasn't good so we could change it or maybe change the minister. I think it's democracy. I think that's fair. I think it's fair to keep it that way for the future, to see if what we say is true or not. That we have a mechanism to check that what we tell the citizens is true. I guess that way we can all put a little more trust in the given word in what politicians say. Take this chance. Accept this amendment. We're ready to negotiate it. It is good for our citizens and I am sure that if there is a monitoring mechanism there will be more savings, because the pressure on our customers will be even higher, because someone in the government, in the Assembly of each quarter, will have a debate on whether this key law is applied properly. There are good things in this law, and we've already said that. Mr. Arsic, you have a great chance to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9024	I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set a regular break of one hour, with the work going on at 16.45 minutes. Also, according to Article 87(2). Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will continue its work after 18.00 hours because of the need to propose acts from the agenda as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9025	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. I'd like to inform you that I'm in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the joint principle and uniform examination of the proposals for the laws referred to in points 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Mr Istvan Pastor, President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, Zoran Radomana, Regional Secretary for Finance, Suzanne Grubjesic, Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, and Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business, called on both Dejan Popovic and Dejan Novakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, Mr. Mirjana Filipović and Dejan Trifunović, assistants of the Minister of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, Zoran Ibrovic, senior adviser at the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, Branko Drcelic, Director of Public Debt Administration, Aleksandra Kocic-Randjelović, advisor to the Ministry of Finance and bring in – Public Debt Administration and Milorad Gasic, Secretary of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the agenda under points 2 to 8 and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament's groups, which is the details of which you have received in the material. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(2) and Article 157(2), paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly open a common principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Energy; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on Cooperation in the field of Energy; Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Deutsche Bank AG London", "Vojvodjanska Banka" a.d. Novi Sad, "UniCredit Bank Serbia" Novi Sad, Belgrade and "Deutsche Bank AG London" under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Srbiagas" Novi Sad; Proposal for the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of "Comercial Bank" a. A.d.d. (John Palalic: Mr. President, I report to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Palaly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9026	Mr President, as I announced in front of the parliamentary group, the other day, when we pointed out the problematic mergers of these points into a joint principled search, we consider it to be very serious laws and guarantees to be given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a number of tasks, we have simply indicated that it is unacceptable to discuss such important laws as the draft law on the Development Fund, amending the law in the field of energy, within a common point. Given that the assembly majority has made a decision to carry out a joint principle search, I propose that, in accordance with Article 97(3), the total time at which the debate will take place, it is 10 hours, because we believe that it is very important laws that need to be discussed, and that MPs will not have the opportunity to properly commit themselves, both to an important law on the Development Fund and to amend the laws in the field of energy and also to guarantees. Here are representatives of several institutions, from the Assembly of the Vojvodina Ministry of Energy, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, and I think that there will be very little time left for MPs to discuss. This time I appeal to the President and to you, that the next time the agenda is made, simply, to take care of the merger of the dots, so that the MPs have both time and opportunity, because within a very short time, the session is called up, to prepare. I'm putting this proposal in front of our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9027	Thank you. I'm putting on a motion to double the time foreseen for the debate. I ask the National Assembly to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 58 of the 76 MPs. I find that the National Assembly could not make a decision because of the lack of quorum. (John Palalic: Is there a quorum? ) The quorum does not exist at this time, since it is a continuation of the session. So there's no need to determine the quorum. It shall be determined only at the beginning of the session and at the beginning of the working day, as you know. We're going back to work. The word is Mr. Djelic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9028	I would just like to support my DSS fellow Members' initiative and point out to the people's MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia today, an attempt to reverse the new turn in public finances. As many as three weeks ago, we heard it was happening...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9029	Mr. Djelic, please, you know what a breach of the Rules of Procedure means? The breach of the Rules of Procedure implies something that has been done by the president of the National Assembly in conducting the session. Please don't abuse it. Please, just because the breach of the Rules of Procedure is a violation, you must specify which member and who is a member in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly is injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9030	I'll say it's Article 106, because it seems to me that the citizens here will be interested in the fact that contrary to what is said, which is the dignity of this National Assembly, that there will be a change in the management of public finances and that Serbia will no longer be in debt to secure the liquidity of public enterprises. We heard that from the Minister of Finance's mouth, as many as three weeks ago. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia are trying to counter a 220m-euro package of duties for these purposes in these evenings. That's why I think it's very important that we have a longer discussion about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9031	Mr. Djelic, we will allow you to discuss this. Please, by doing what you're doing, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. In fact, you abuse that role. I thank you and ask that we leave it for discussion. Do the representatives of the promoter, Mr Istvan Pastor, Susana Grubjesic and Professor Zorana Mihajlović, want a word? Yeah. ) First reported is Mrs Grubjesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9032	The honourable MPs, yes, tonight will talk about guarantees for the current liquidity of public enterprises, but this is the last time this year to talk about it, since, as you all know, a budget has been adopted this year on time for 2013 and there are no funds identified for guarantees to public undertakings to maintain the current liquidity. This is done according to the 2012 budget. I have no intention of convincing or reading the explanation. You've all got the materials. So, let me just repeat that it is the guarantees to the 2012 budget and that already in 2013, there is no means to maintain the current liquidity of public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9033	The next reported is Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9034	Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, are before you today to amend and supplement the Energy Act. It is a system law, but the amendments and additions of the Energy Act that are before you today, or today's afternoon, and not in the evenings are not systemic, but it is an attempt to fill the legal gaps that are definitely in place in the Energy Act, that we are not waiting for the next year to deal with it, because it has proved that in the previous period of various consent, the energy consent given to the construction of objects up to one megawatt, which the ministry issued in the previous period, we did not have the opportunity to control either investors, nor to simply restrict them from reselling those consents, nor to oblige them as future investors to have an obligation to during a certain period of time, how much agreement and to do something about building facilities. You've been given an explanation and I believe we'll discuss it in the course of discussion. I'm here to answer all the dilemmas and all the questions. The second is the ratification of an energy agreement between Serbia and Italy. He's right in front of you. All the questions about the projects and all the things that will continue to be realized, I'm here to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9035	Thank you. Mr. Pastor, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9036	Mr. President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for the opportunity for them to be here again today. In a month's time, this is a third chance. I have to say I came today with a different basic feeling in my soul, but I don't think it all matters. The important thing is that with this present day, we further show and prove that problems can be solved within the framework of the system. The debate in the Assembly on issues that are very complex and very important is a confirmation that, regardless of the differences, we can find the possibility to talk about these things using parliamentary democracy's means. In two months' time, ladies and gentlemen, this is the third law or the third proposal to be addressed by the mandated MEP's proposal to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. First, it was the Law on the Completion of the Budgetary System Act. After that, there were three amendments to the 2013 Budget Law. We now have a bill on the development fund of the AP Vojvodina. Before I say a few sentences about the bill itself, which is the result of the joint work of the two governments, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the AP Vojvodina, I must look back, at least with a few sentences, on the issue of Vojvodina Development Bank. I'm doing it because I don't want to go around this issue and I'm doing it because I don't have a single reason to go around as president of the assembly. As for Vojvodina Development Bank, ladies and gentlemen, over the past months, the institution has been a cause for media and political conflict for media and political conflict. It has also served quite often as an example or as an opportunity to destabilize certain political majority. I also have to say that Vojvodina Development Bank has often been a subject of non-principle attacks, a topic for certain claims that have not been proven and which, two after that, retreated, but certainly a topic that contained the danger of shaking not only the Development Bank, but also a significant part of the banking system itself of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to go around this subject, because we've never done it as a Assembly or as an AP government. We're interested in that, ladies and gentlemen, to determine what happened to Vojvodina Development Bank. We here today in the congregation can talk about it again, but congregation debate is not a place where facts can be determined. There can be attitudes here. I think the facts must be established by the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia and by other authorities with powers, with the legal possibility of doing so, and we are interested in doing so in due course. I do not want to go around the issue of Vojvodina Development Bank because of what I cannot, because it is the initial resolution chapel, that is, to propose this law, the issue of the Vojvodina Development Bank, that is, the problem that lies in the Vojvodine Development Bank. The problem is wanted to be resolved in this way that a practical agreement has been reached between the two governments that have been introduced into the agreement, which says the development bank issue must be resolved by activities to carry out the transfer of part of the assets and liabilities to the takeover bank, as well as by transferring part of the assets to the Vojvodina Development Fund in accordance with the Law on the acquisition of assets and liabilities of certain banks in order to preserve the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, which was brought by the Assembly this year. This agreement is practically a reason to propose this law in some sense. The legal basis for law-making can be found in Article 97 of Article 1 point 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the Republic of Serbia regulates and secures the development of the Republic of Serbia, politics and measures to promote the smooth development of certain parts of the Republic of Serbia, including the development of underdeveloped areas. As far as the agreement itself is concerned, it is practically a joint commitment by the two governments to propose this law on the one hand to the AP Vojvodina Assembly, which will deal with all those issues that are relevant for resolving the issue of the Vojvodina Development Bank. As far as the bill itself is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to be more detailed in explaining or explaining certain solutions to these laws. You had a chance to study it. Article 1 sets out the subject matter of a law which practically coincides with the intention set out in that agreement that I mentioned earlier. What is essential is that the AP Vojvodina Development Fund is organised by the principles and rules of the Business Society Act, such as d.o.o., with founders having the opportunity to make a decision in an additional period of time, that the Development Fund grows from d.o.o. in a.d. if such a decision is made. Founders of this d.o.o. The Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina, and the objectives pursued by the development of the Development Fund, are to facilitate the development of economy and agriculture, to encourage the establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises, to develop entrepreneurship, to promote exit employment, to raise the issue of equal regional development and to implement other programmes of a similar nature to be defined by the annual programmes, which each year must be proposed by the Assembly of the Development Fund to the founders. The bodies of the Development Fund shall be the Assembly, the Supervisory Boards of Directors, the founding contract to be signed within eight days of the date of entry into force of this Act and any questions relating to the constitution, work and jurisdiction of the Assembly Supervisory Board and the Director shall be specified. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the agreement that I have mentioned many times today, we have proposed to this assembly, as an authorised proposing that this bill be considered by an emergency procedure, in order to relax the complete situation around the Vojvodina Development Bank and to save everything that can be saved, so that we can establish a Development Fund and that we can have a means to realise the intentions defined in the law itself. If you'll excuse me, I would say that our expectations regarding the adoption of this law are primarily about reducing tensions around the Development Bank, creating circumstances and possibilities to determine what happened here, creating assumptions of institutional and legal saving what can be saved from the Development Bank, that in some way as a principle element of the banking system of the Republic of Serbia we can extract the Development Bank and that it does not endanger the overall financial stability and banking system. We also expect the Development Fund to be an effective instrument to encourage the development of the AP Vojvodina. I must say, in the earlier period, we had a similar institution in the form of an AP Vojvodina Development Fund that managed to manage the funds that the AP received as part of the privatisation income. From these sources with 6.7 billion total money, a total of 50 competitive rounds in 32 long-term and 17 short-term loans totaling 24.5 billion dinars were placed in ten years. Some six thousand competitions there were supported, with a return procedure of more than 85%. We expect that with this institution we will be able to continue what we were interrupted when these funds were poured into the Vojvodina Development Bank. We want, through the realization of the possibilities of this law on your desks, to create a solid instrument that will show and prove that both the Assembly and the provincial government can effectively, responsibly, responsibly manage public funds, which I am still convinced of. I thank you for the opportunity to give my opening statement and I am at my disposal as a representative of the mandated rapporteur in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9037	Thank you. Anyone else from the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ) As far as the president and vice-president of the parliamentary groups are concerned, Žiga Gojkovic is the first to be reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9038	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Ministers, the Honorable President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of my presentation, I would agree with my colleagues from the DSS that this is a very serious debate and that there is little time to devote to such important topics. I'll talk about the AP Vojvodina Development Fund most of all. In terms of law-making, it is not enough to stress the importance of the Vojvodina Development Fund to launch development in many areas of economic life in Vojvodina itself, but also various forms of joint investment with the economy of Serbia and the international market. The increase in social product, the growth of net foreign exchange effects and employment must be as dynamic as other economic growth aggregates. In some elements, they have to approach double-digit rates, and when we say double-digit rates, this primarily applies to agriculture and the food industry, because it is clear to everyone that the third millennium will be chronically deficited in food, energy and water. Autonomous province of Vojvodina and the whole of Serbia can achieve the value of agricultural production and the food industry at $20 billion annually, of which even 50% can be exports. What importance can this have for the country's macroeconomic stability and the reviving of the economic environment in our country, as well as the attractiveness for real permanent and large investment? I think it's too much to talk about. This process would pave the way for faster employee growth and a reduction in unemployment, if, in terms of agricultural production and the food industry of $20 billion, only 6% were allocated for profits. That would mean that over 150,000 directly employed and indirectly in the farmers' families is still so much. This plan, not only is it real, but the SPO has a team of people ready to implement new ideas, and the deadline for their implementation was five to eight years. The European Union leaves jobs in the agricultural and food industry to the environment, and therefore we too have to know how to follow this process, and not as it has been until now, just a mere copying of laws that unfortunately most of them have not realised. This production has a safe market and we all know it. Recently, especially German business delegations have pointed out that they are interested in investing in food, energy and infrastructure production. It is good, but often, unfortunately, these are not our country's priorities. In recent decades, by applying only one model of privatisation to all economic activity in our country, we have brought industrial and agricultural production into a very difficult position. Now I'm talking about re-industrialisation, and the price we're going to pay this time is certainly not going to be small. However, we still do not have a defined development strategy for the future, and that is our biggest problem, and the role of the countries is to create an economic environment and stimulate the realisation of development priorities, not to fund or manage them, as has been the good part of it until today. A particular problem that hampers economic development is a large budget pair of fiscal spending. There are also various forms of monopoly, which have not yet been eradicated, which are in line with bureaucratic practice and are best seen at the level of local self-government. This pours a huge social accumulation into the area of consumption into businesses that are very far from production. For the above reasons, optimal decentralisation of the right of use of property and income, as proposed by the Law on the Development Fund of Vojvodina, is a step closer to reality instead of the fact-finding of a centre, as we often had the opportunity to watch. A positive example when we talk about this topic is the takeover of the PKK by the City of Belgrade, but this raises the question why can Vojvodina not have the same conditions as the City of Belgrade and the PKK? Negative examples, created by the privatisation that has been annulled, are the idea of restructuring these companies, creating an illusion that it is possible to avoid additional losses caused by huge consumption without cover. Our concerns are that the formation of the fund is more transparent, much more transparent than it has ever been before, that it is not allowed that the sick tissue of the former "Metals Bank" threatens the state property used by clients the same. When it comes to objections, it should be said that other issues relating to the law require a correct approach to education and the use of the AP Vojvodina Development Fund. What enters the eyes immediately is that it is simply amazing that there is no one in the Supervisory Board from the Agriculture Secretariat, that there is not one Goran Jesic, more than a successful man, not only when it comes to Indji, but also when it comes to the Ministry of Agriculture. In addition, the fact that the fund will go through the largest share of the EU's funds, especially when it comes to agriculture, comes to this. It is absolutely amazing that one Goran Jesic or one of his closest associates are not members of the Supervisory Board. Speaking of objections, it should be said that in the part of the reasons for the adoption of the law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the EU signed an Agreement on the transfer of assets and liabilities of the "Vojvodine Development Bank", with the aim of carrying out the transfer of part of the assets and liabilities of certain banks, in particular in the case of "Vojvodine Development Bank", earlier "Metals Bank" in favour of the Vojvodina Development Fund. That's one. Under two, Article 22 sets out the capital ratio of the Development Fund in a monetary role of 10 million dinars, the relative roles of the founders, as well as the non-renewable stakes. The value of the non-financial role will be determined by the founding contract between the founders. That's what hurts us. Why do you keep some contracts between founders, not working with people with good experience, when it comes to not only the Development Fund, but also when it comes to our country's agriculture strategy. From the above mentioned, the reasoning is in fact an important definition of the bank's deposits, as well as part of the assets that will belong to the Development Fund, i.e. an institution that will take over part of the "Vojvodine Development Bank" activity. This distinction has already been reached by the agreement referred to in point 1 of this remark, which means that the above-mentioned demarcation has not been done transparently, as promised, and the bill has not defined the principles of this distinction, and it is large sumamai large funds for today's time. Plasma "Metals Bank" in privatization of businesses is unchargeable and should be made clear. On no basis should the State agricultural land be used to convert the risk-placement of the bank into capital. I believe that anyone who knows little about the situation in Vojvodina, who knows little that agriculture is one of the strategic actions, not only of the Vojvodina, but of all Serbia, will support what I'm talking about. State land must remain state-owned as part of the non-money role of the Vojvodina Development Fund. This can best be shown on examples. I come from Somboro, so I'm going to take the opportunity to explain it on the case of the "Gakova" and "Alex Shantic" farmers. We first sold very good agricultural landowners to more than certainly suspects that they bought these holdings not only with suspicious money, but also with money obtained from both crime and corruption and drug trafficking. Like, no one in the state knew that this was happening, while these purchases of landowners and some other firms were being made. Then capital was withdrawn from these healthy companies. Local self-government is additional pressure, i.e. By further hiring their party pillows and personnel, these agricultural holdings have been further destroyed. We now have a situation that literally entire villages depend on several agricultural landowners, and this is best seen in the case of "Gakova" and "Alex Shantic", and perhaps even more so on the case of "Gakova" which does not have its own country, but processes a country that is state-owned. We can very easily understand what will happen if they lose that country they are processing and I am quite sure that this is the first step towards the final shutting down of all villages that have a problem as mentioned here. I will only add that in "Santic" the director borrows money from the company to pay off profits, that the situation is such that the "Gakov" silos are empty, that the food of cattle is at risk because the irresponsible executives set up on a proposal by local self-government to sell corn and now from the province's commodity reserves, from the province funds are asking for loans and subsidies. That's how it goes in circles all the time. There is always a hole that cannot be buried, and the problems remain the same, and only for the purpose are politics and the acquisition of cheap political points and the employment of its party personnel. In addition to the need to more complexly define the development functions of the Fund for the Development of the AP Vojvodina, the priority of our amendments, which we will talk about in particular, is the opening of an optimal developmental use process of one of the main development resources of the AP Vojvodina, which is the issue of use in the first order of state and other agricultural land. Now in practice there are only ad hoc solutions in terms of short-term leases and renting large land properties, which are unprecedented in Europe. I will say that nothing is strange for our terms, especially if we have in mind that the strategy, when it comes to agriculture, changes literally with every new minister that comes. We even had the opportunity to see that even within one party, when the minister is changing, the strategy for agriculture is changing. As good as it is, it's enough to go to any agricultural land. I think we'll get a clear answer. In the AP Vojvodina there is a significant scientific and professional potential capable of designing a process for the development of the agricultural and food industries modelled by the Dutch model. The entire food industry and stock exchange system is managed by farmers or their cooperatives. It is a model that highlights the general interest through the very intense production of farm families. This country exports about $20 billion a year. The use of state-owned agricultural and other land by the Vojodina AP Development Fund would give a strong driving factor to increase the economic effect by applying the global project, which would bear the working name – the colonization of Vojvodina. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the DHSS will try to make some good proposals in an amendment debate, which I hope will be taken seriously. We will try to establish the value of the monetary role by establishing a contract between the founders and so that the non-money stake will cover the state agricultural land that is located in the use of enterprises that were credited by the previously "Metals Bank" in the privatisation process. We will try to make suggestions where a bill like this will be brought into line with the Law of Restitution, because unfortunately today, about the restitution of very few parties, and even would dare to tell individuals, he is thinking. But we'll have a chance to talk about this when there's an amendment debate. I would have finished my opening speech by saying that the SPO made it clear a few months ago that it was opposed to the capitalisation of Vojvodina Development Bank. And now we say it's simply unnatural to talk about a bill on the Vojvodine AP Development Fund, and we don't have the results of an investigation that's very much being conducted on the business of the Vojvodine Development Bank, which currently has a huge number of non-refundable loans. It is important to determine who is and under what conditions he received these loans, not only these banks, but also the funds from the province funds. It seems to us that the concerns of some individuals from the province government, declared and undeclared autonomists as needed, for the survival of the said bank in this form do not stem from the care of clients and capital, but rather from the fear that it would eventually be found by the revision of the business, and what fate some people would face. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, and I am going to finish this, I believe that because there is a basic precondition for the creation of the Development Fund, that in the future, someone's irresponsibility, haughtiness and bad business would not be paid by the citizens of the province, as has been the case so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9039	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9040	Honored members of the Government, Mr. President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, Mr. President of the Assembly, as the proposing officer has on several occasions established this bill, the draft law on the Vojvodina Development Fund is one attempt to save what can be saved, and this is compared to the possibilities of Vojvodina having at least one institution that could affect economic, agricultural development, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. So this is an attempt to keep some of these institutions. Practically, it's another alternative not to leave anything behind. That way, I think you can simplify the dilemma about this bill. The LSV parliamentary group has no problem with the law itself, with the bill. We have a problem with the sequence of events from the beginning of this year to the end of this year. We think that this trail of events that preceded this debate today is extremely problematic and I'm going to try to talk about it now. The president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly spoke about the Vojvodina Development Fund, detailing the number of competitions, the number of credits granted, the percentage of the payment of claims. All this data proves, or is proof that this institution, the Vojvodina Development Fund, was one successful institution. If we accept this as a fact, then it becomes incomprehensible why it was necessary in February of this year that the institution, the Development Fund, should be abolished and decisions taken to stop the Fund's work. At that time, those who initiated the decision convinced everyone else that it was not possible to pass a law on the development fund or on the Vojvodina Development Fund and that it is not possible for that one institution to survive as an institution and as part of the financial system. The logical question arises – what has happened since February, since in this area I think no system law has been changed? It is obvious that only political opportunities have changed, and suddenly this solution, proposed today, has become acceptable, and several months ago this solution was unacceptable. The point is, obviously, political will has changed. On the other hand, we were witnesses, and that was also said by the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, an unprecedented campaign against Vojvodina Development Bank. The destabilization of the Vojvodina Development Bank lasted three or four months, and it is probably one logical consequence of all that has been happening to this agreement on the transfer of assets and liabilities of the Vojvodina Development Bank, which is an agreement on the shut down of the Vojvodina Development Bank and the founding of the Vojvodina Development Fund. Like I said, we have a problem not with the law, but I repeat again, with a trail of these events. We have a problem with the unprecedented pressure that Vojvodina Development Bank has suffered from the Ministry or the finance minister. On the other hand, we also have a problem with the incredible indiscretion of the Prime Minister. In fact, a few months ago, in February, he claimed that the most comprehensive means of development were to be united in one place, so it is more efficient, more rational, and that one place should be the Vojvodina Development Bank. Today, practically, the same person in office says that this way, through the development fund, more efficient allocation of funds in the economy, agriculture, etc. Something has obviously changed in these few months, and I think many citizens would deserve an answer to the question – what has changed in this way? On the third hand, we can't even agree with the attempt to pin the truth that's happening the same way, even when someone says that this law is now going to give Vojvodina some new leverage, I don't think that's true. This is about saving something, or anything, that can be saved. It's not going to be some new lever, it's going to be the practical foundation of an institution, which, apparently, was shut down a few months ago. I have to say, from what I've been talking about, we don't trust the Minister of Finance, and we don't have much confidence in the Prime Minister. We cannot fully understand the amendment of the government which will obviously be accepted. The government's amendment, one of the government's amendments, speaks of the fact that the Vojvodina Development Fund cannot be financed from the republican budget. When one institution and one fund are formed in which the Republic and the province, which are managed by the Republic, i.e. the province, have joint participation, then we do not think that such an amendment should be acceptable. This amendment should not be accepted for any other reason, and that reason is in the light of the draft law, i.e. in the invitation to Article 97. The Constitution. If we accept the fact that it is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to provide measures to encourage and develop underdeveloped areas such as Vojvodina, if we accept the fact that it is the obligation of the Republic, then it is contrary to this fact, to the amendment of the Government that says the government has no obligation or no possibility to finance the Vojvodina Development Fund. So the Republic budget doesn't fund this fund. In the end, I want to point out one tragic feature of the sentence in the explanation. Of course, the explanation is in place, but the fact that Vojvodina in 2012 is an underdeveloped area and I think it tells us a lot of things. Any attempt aimed at ensuring the possibility that the province's authorities to some extent, not large, but to some extent, can affect the change in the situation, to improve the level of development of Vojvodina, I think it deserves support. In that sense, we understand this bill on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9041	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9042	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the very fact that the discussion of the Vojvodina Development Fund has been brought together, of providing a guarantee of 225m euros and of amending the Energy Act says something is wrong. I believe there was a point on the agenda, let's say, dog-spitting, to get it in here too. What does this have to do with each other? Obviously, there's something here that needs to be hidden, or that on the 87th day of a regular session, before New Year's Eve, it's going through without anyone noticing. The first two discussions are about the Vojvodina Development Fund. No one on the 225m guarantees that will almost certainly become a public debt, so it will be returned to all citizens of Serbia, nor will it be amended by the Energy Act. Let's get started, at least, on that energy, because the most I'm hearing is that there's something hiding. It is indisputable that the previous law had ambiguity and that it had to be fixed, but there are a few things that are bad luck when it comes to good intentions. First, these amendments to the Energy Act did not get the consent of one European institution, including the European Energy Agency. Obviously, the moment the Government changes its Rules of Procedure and says that now all the laws have to go to a public debate, we have one important law here that goes without public debate and in these circumstances that I have already described. What's the matter? It is disputed that there was no public debate and that there was no waiting for the opinion of one who should give an opinion, because we are part of that system, because this government wants faster and faster than the previous one, such words today, to lead to the start date of the negotiations. It's the first principle of the law. The second is the retroactivity of some members. You know, if someone got an energy license or an energy consent under an old law that's been in force for three years, how can you say it's been valid for a year now? In principle, not only is it not constitutional, but it is not, after all, an incentive to invest in energy. Why did I start with energy? Because here, as a priority of the government of energy, is that there's some kind of money, some foreign investment can come. This law is not about thousands and tens of thousands of people, maybe a few hundred investors, but it's about tens of maybe hundreds of potential millions of investments. That's why it's unclear and, let's say, some of the confusions in the previous law were supposed to be removed by clear views. When we have retroactiveness, that whoever won for three years, now a permit will be valid for a year and there are still vague things, lots. For example, Article 34a – the holder of an energy licence, i.e. the holder of consent, is lost if it takes legal or practical action with the intention of issuing that energy permit or consent to a third legal or physical person. It's not a questionable intention, but what does the actual action mean? Which means the fact that if you start a company, it has an energy license, you go to a bank, you look for a loan, the bank asks for a stake in the company, as a deposit, and you literally transfer the bank's energy license. It is not clear, as much is not clear, I believe that it remains unclear with intent to give great discretion to the minister to arrange these vague things. Instead of becoming clearer, the law becomes more unclear, has no support for Europe and introduces retroactivity. It's a basic grudge. You know what, some people close to SNS from the employers' association said the Public Procurement Act was last-minutely changed under the pressure of some stakeholders. It kind of seems to me like this is about some kind of pressure from some of the stakeholders. We'll see who they are. Did NIS decide to enter the production of wind and sun electricity or was it something else? We'll see about that. It doesn't instill trust, especially in this way a broken law. After all, we're talking about public procurement. Minister, it seems to me, the first pre-election promise was to introduce cheap electricity and not keep it. The other day, we see that we will be buying electricity from the Republika Srpska electroprivreda by direct contract. I'm not saying there wasn't an energy mob. Speaking of public procurement laws, why isn't a tender for that electricity called? We'll see what the terms of that contract are. Are we going to have to pull the power out of Republika Srpska, and if we don't need it, say, if the meteorologists fail, then this winter isn't as cold as they say? Will we then have to export our electricity to pay for this current from BiH, or Republika Srpska? It's just some dilemmas, because it's hard to talk in 20 minutes about three important topics that you've put together, that, essentially, one or every one of them wouldn't be serious. As far as the Vojvodina Development Fund is concerned, it is clear that it is a matter of saving the damage. That's not controversial. That's another proof, conditionally said, of humiliation and blackmailing the Duke. Whoever underestimates and humiliates Vojvodina, it underestimates and humiliates Serbia because it is Vojvodina, to remind you, part of Serbia. He is right, Mr. Varga, that the government ministers were campaigning against the Vojvodina Development Bank, but you know that there are political interests behind it. I'm sorry that you, gentlemen of the Vojvodina, have accepted your participation in this humiliation and understatement. In the end, you changed your mind, you made a deal, and now this is the result of that deal. If this is an unconstitutional fund for the development of the Vojvodina because the Constitutional Court has said that we have to establish such an institution and if this is a correction now, let's say, those mistakes from the Statute or attacks on Vojvodina that have lasted since this government was formed, I hope that you will soon propose a law under which Novi Sad is the capital of Vojvodina, so when we say it is, then it will be, since it is an unconstitutional provision from the Statute. Then you'll propose a law that in Vojvodina pregnant women can be granted privileges, when we say so, then it will be in accordance with the Constitution. Anyway, it's a sad situation. It is indisputable that for what is happening in Vojvodina, that it has reached the level of the undeveloped area, it is certainly borne by the one who rocked the "Vojvodine Development Bank", but you who, in the end, have succumbed to those blackmails, even though you were intent and here we were when we discussed the "Agrobanks" listening to your firm position that you would go to the bank's capitalisation, then you gave up. I know the power of God does not beg, but that responsibility for what is happening in Vojvodina must be shared between the District Government and the Republic Government. If you prefer, the Republic Government is responsible. I don't think that'll do the Duke any good. After all, it would be nice, Mr. Pastor, to say, for example, something about supplies, or collaterals that the bank has that will go bankrupt. I'm talking about the country, about eight thousand acres of land that the combineds have put up for loans. It's going to go to another bank now. As far as I know, it's the only land that can be bought at this point in Vojvodina, because whoever wants to buy it can hardly buy land, and those eight thousand acres will go to a bank that will take over deposits of the failed Vojvodina Development Bank. Whether it's the goal of this whole game, whether someone has promised someone something, you know better, but it seems to me that you haven't done enough to protect the interests of those you represent in the District Parliament and Government. We are now going back to the most important thing, which is giving guarantees for the new 200m euros in debt to Serbia, 10m euros in debt to JAT and 15m euros in debt to Galenika. Let's get out of the JAT. You remember two years ago, around here, we gave guarantees for 51 million and 500 thousand euros for liquid liquidity. Look, two years later, they need 10m euros for liquid liquidity. These are all, so I don't use any uglier word, spent it. In those 51 million, there were two and a half million to rent and rebuild the fleet. It's spent on liquid liquidity. There was no renting new planes. Let me remind you, who doesn't know, that some already rented jets owned by JAT, or rented by JAT, as these flocks say, are cannibalized. We took one chartered plane to pieces to keep others safe. How are we gonna get that rental plane, which was torn apart, back? It'll probably be someone else's concern. Why do I mention JAT first? Because Minister Mrkonjic says this JAT will be shut down, the state will take over debts and some new JAT with a new fleet will appear as a phoenix in spring, etc. Isn't it a direct recognition that giving a guarantee for these 10 million will become a public debt and will be paid back by all citizens of Serbia, when the minister says well – the debts of this JAT go to the state and the new JAT is formed without debts. So on Saturday, you will vote to assign citizens of Serbia to these 10 million directly, knowing that this JAT will never return it. It is similar with Galenika, which we have already provided guarantees of 70m euros and now ask for another 15m euros, with Galenika, which was once a model factory, and now it is not a shadow. Now we say - we'll find a strategic partner. Who will be the strategic partner of the company that is so ruined and that is so in charge, or is there ready to take debts and transfer to the citizens of Serbia, and someone who is "Galenik" without debts. All right, if that's a concept, but then that should be made clear. When we talk about borrowing, we all talked, and you who were the opposition, and us who were then the opposition, that Mirko Cvetkovic owed the future generations with six billion euros in four years. Excuse me, gentlemen, you've only been in power for five months. With these 225m euros, you will be approaching three billion euros in five months, and this previous government six in four years. You've caught such a run in debt, that I think Mirko Cvetkovic, it won't take you four years, not three years, you'll catch up with him in a year if you continue like this. Who's gonna pay it back? Those who are now five years old, those who have not yet been born. Two hundred million extra for "Serbiagas", of which 170 million for liquid liquidity. What does liquid liquidity mean? It's for helping sports clubs, it's for various concepts, because it's all done by "Srbigas" and it's still sending notices these days that gas is in the middle of the winter gathering. Madam Minister, I hope she has something to say, even though she officially defends only the Energy Act here. What did Mrs. Minister just say about the director of "Srbigas" whom the government re-named the other day, normally, before the Law on Public Enterprises, because under the Law on Public Enterprises, it's hardly possible to be? I think she said that since he got here, if I remember correctly, here's the "Serbiagas", "Serbiagas" has lost 40% of the value of his capital. What does that mean? What does that mean for a company that has been in debt over the past four years with a billion euros? And we MPs, i.e. you have provided a guarantee in the past four or three years of a total of 530m euros. Now this 200, it's a guarantee, and they're in debt without guarantees, and the company's capital goes down. What does that mean? That means the company won't be able to pay back, so that means it'll become a public debt, too. So, additional borrowing of Serbian citizens. It's a public sector reform, and that's what some of the government are selling us in the last five months, and basically by five months, you've increased Serbia's debt to nearly three billion. Indeed, if someone in their right mind can vote for this, let them vote, but I certainly think that, apart from our parliamentary group, there are still those who will not do something like that, because just once it has to stop. Why is there a bankruptcy law in this country? Agrobank should go bankrupt. Nope, we found a solution. You know why they found a solution, Mr. Varga? To never determine what was going on in that Agrobank. Two bankruptcys, a new Agrobank, and all that at the Commercial Bank, and the Holy God will no longer disintegrate what's happened in the past few years. That's probably how it is with Vojvodina Development Bank. Now, with "Serbiagas," it's a little too much. If you want to be honest, it's a lot of money for a company that raises prices in the middle of the winter. I know they'll always say - it's a low price of gas, it's not marketable, at a higher price we import, etc., citizens don't pay. Why isn't there a report from the state auditor on "Serbiagas"? We're continuing on further borrowing, providing guarantees for the company's additional borrowing, and we don't have a review report. Do you think that's normal? But it's a story, for example. that there are two companies through which "Serbiagas" imports gas, not just that "Yugorosgas" but some more. God knows what's going on here, and we, in some rhythm, don't just blame you, we did it in the previous term, in some rhythm of six months 200 million, so 200 million and indeed, there must be an end. Is it called professionalization of public enterprises, management? This is, we could say, at the border of scandal. You say it's the previous regime, and half of the previous regime in your government has ruined and debted the country, and you continue absolute continuity. I understand coalition agreements, I understand the desire to be in power at all costs, but I'm sure there are people among you who know this is wrong. I'm not saying they won't vote against, I know what party discipline is, but when you go home or when you talk to your friends at least tell them – it shouldn't have been done, it shouldn't have been voted, and it should have ended, but what do we do, we have to push on. Be aware that you're borrowing children who haven't been born yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9043	Minister Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9044	Dear MPs, dear MPs, amends and additions to the Energy Act for the first time prescribe legal conditions for granting energy permits and consent, as well as for withdrawing energy permits and consent. There's no more discretionary right of the minister, which is what you're talking about. That's the first time. In the previous period, unfortunately, there was a discretionary right of the minister, so we had a situation that we had built 19 small hydropower plants in the previous six years and issued 128 consents and 63 energy permits, because energy permits and consents were being resold, because for certain locations, energy permits were being doubled, so we had two investors at the same location, and there was no legal provision that the energy permit could be withdrawn. Therefore, it does not appear that this is the law, that these are amendments and additions to the laws that suddenly give the possibility of an even bigger minister doing something in that sense, because we have, on the contrary, come to the conclusion that there are no buildings built, that there are no new megawatts, that there are no new kilowatts of lessons, precisely because someone was in some way playing with energy permits and consent. Secondly, when you talk about amending and supplementing this law, I have listened very carefully to you, when you say that the amendments and additions of this law do not have the approval of European institutions, first there is no European Energy Agency that you mention, but that is why there is the Energy Community of the Southeast European countries and there is a European Commission Delegation that we have worked with, but right now to tell you another thing. The delegation does not give an opinion and consent to this law, but the opinion of the amendments to this law gives the Office for European Integration and we, as a positive, have. When you talk about public debate, changes and additions to this law were presented in public on 10 December 2012 in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. What you said, please, for the sake of Serbia's citizens, not to be doing anything under the grain, because the only thing I don't want to do in the field of energy is to do more, because that's how it was done in the previous period and our desire is that these investors who come here and want to create something, especially in renewable energy sources, exploiting these potentials, have clear, transparent, transparent conditions, and that no one can condition them or ask them for something to give them an energy license. That's exactly why we changed this law. When you refer to the retroactiveness of this law, I must tell you right away, that is Article 10, but Article 9, among other things, says - energy permits and consents issued until the entry into force of this law remain in force until the expiry of the deadline on which they are issued. Therefore, in this respect we do not touch acquired rights, but certain conditions under which energy permits are granted will have to be clearly supplemented, given those already having an energy license. So the acquired right remains. When you talk, among other things, about this transfer, I have to tell you that one of the biggest problems in the previous period has just been reselling licenses. That's what we first saw. For this reason it does not appear to be unclear, it is very clear. No more reselling licenses. The ministry of energy, development and environmental protection will issue a public call in January for all interested investors who want to build small hydropower plants by obtaining an energy license publicly. So everyone can see and everyone will be there. In that sense, I think it's significant, because for the first time, it hasn't happened yet. Now that you're talking about that cheap electricity, let me tell you right now, just because you want everyone to benefit from it, so-called. cheap currents, we've given a 15% discount on all those who spend electricity up to 500 kW/h. It's a much larger number of Serbian citizens than it would have been if we had put two hours of cheap electricity on. The third thing I think is very important, it's Republika Srpska. You are not well informed, we have already booked certain amounts of necessary electricity for 2013, but not complete, precisely because we would not be able to spend that amount, but 70% of the estimated electricity required for 2013. The average price at which we did it is 58.38 euros per megawatt hour. Believe me, it's between 20% and 35% lower than the price at which it was purchased in 2012, when the electricity was interveningly imported. The EPS savings in this regard are around 70m euros. So I have to tell you that you just don't have all the facts, but it's no problem, I'm here to explain them. About "Serbigas," and I can't wait for the DRI report. When we have such a report, then I believe we'll be able to talk a little bit more about the Serbs themselves. But what the Ministry of Energy is doing is that in January, we're going to come up with a plan to restructure "Serbiagas", because we've all been aware, many times, of that being said, that some things in "Serbigas" have to change. Also, some things have been inherited in terms of the previous period. Then you can't cut everything all of a sudden and then you're due to the obligation to have energy security, stability, to have sufficient amounts of gas, to pay your obligations to your partner, given that we're importing gas, unfortunately, under the obligation to take, or to give certain guarantees. So this government has been working for four months. It's not enough to change things essentially in the functioning of public enterprises. I tried to be brief, but I'm here to answer whatever it takes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9045	Thank you. The right to replica has a National MP, Zoran Babic, as deputy head of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did in the previous debate, that is, in the debate on the previous law, on the Law on Public Procurement, quote the previous speaker saying that he likes to announce the point and point here in the National Assembly. However, an attempt to score by saying that he heard that someone from the Association of Employers of Serbia, who is allegedly close to the SNS, heard that the Law on Public Procurement was changing under the influence of certain stakeholders, seems to me really, at the very least, inconclusive. What SNS' relationship to stakeholders in Serbia best tells the fact that Bulevar King Alexander is no longer the longest street in Belgrade, is now the longest street in Belgrade, Statska. It's that street where the Special Court building is. People say when you go in there for a month there's no going out. I can see that for Mr. Dragin and this crew from Ces Meekon, there's no going out for another month. If we want to talk about it that way, we can talk about it that way, but we will also mention the testimony of the people and guards from Central Prison, with whom all Cedomir Jovanovic was seeing, etc. We want to talk about Schiller. We want to talk about a lot of what's heard, what's heard, what's true or what's half true. As for SNS promises and what SNS does, it is seen through the fundamental fight against organised crime and corruption. Our relationship can also be seen through investment in agriculture. In 2013, 94.5% of Serbia's budget was intended for agriculture. This is also seen through these laws that encourage investment in energy. This is also seen through the Public Procurement Act, which we have discussed in principle today. That's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9047	Thank you. The People's MP Zoran Ostojić has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9048	Mr Arsenovicu, I have the right to two replicas, but first I will address the minister, because it is still more important. Mrs. Mihajlovic, I commended the intention to improve the ambiguities. I did not condemn the prescribed conditions for the withdrawal of the permit, I merely cited one of the conditions as unclear, which gives what means the actual legal action or the actual action with intent. Two, when I said it was a discretionary right, I didn't mean what you're saying. You see, the government is closer to prescribing conditions and the process of obtaining a privileged producer. There are a lot of these governments, closer to ministers, etc. In that sense, I thought that many people read this and don't understand it, and they do it. That's what this is about. When I was talking about retroactivity, I was thinking about Article 10. - the procedures which have been initiated until the date of entry into force of this law will end under the provisions of this law. It would be logical for procedures to start under the old law to end under the old law. It kind of makes sense to me. If you're saying someone started the procedure in the old one, and they'll finish it by the new one, I'm not a lawyer, but the lawyers say it's retroactive. As for the purchase of electricity, let you compare the price reserved with the intervention import. Of course, intervention imports are the most expensive. Don't compare those two things that aren't comparable. I just said -- okay, maybe this is the best price, but we'd be sure that this is the best price you've reached in agreement with Republika Srpska that there was a tender. Maybe a lower price would be achieved. There would have been "The Elektroprivred Republika Srpska", but there might have been someone else, so it would have been a lower price. Don't compare. What you have now agreed is no intervention import. Leave 80 and some euros per megawatt.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9049	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9050	Can I just say two sentences to Mr. Babic?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9051	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9052	Mr. Granny, read in the paper what I said. I didn't hear that, it says today in the paper that some stakeholders were changing at the last minute. They were with you on the list, so in that sense I said they were close to you. As for Cedomir Jovanovic and Schiller, think of something new. The DSS colleagues have been rocking it for four years. Do you have anyone who has more original ideas? I don't have any problem with that, but I really... Just one more sentence. You've said it twice – the SNS is fighting crime and corruption. I deeply believed that the state institutions were doing it, but when you say the party is doing it, then I hope that the other colleagues and the public will take a stand on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9053	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9054	Thank you. I think you and I both know the difference when you say the minister and when you say the government. When you say minister, it's one man, a member. When you say "Government," it's the whole government. So, what you said at the beginning, the Minister's discretionary right definitely does not exist under the amendments and additions of the Energy Act, there is a government that will bring, as in all other countries, a rule on closer conditions for someone to become a privileged producer of electricity. This will bring, of course, to the ministry's proposal, but by giving five other ministries their opinion and the entire government will stand behind it and give its position. Therefore, it is not the discretionary right of the minister. I'm sorry, I may have overlooked it and I didn't say it, but the EPS took part in a public tender published by the "Re Republika Srpska Elektroprivreda" on October 5th 2012. That wasn't direct procurement, like you said. Not only did the EPS appear in the public tender, others also appeared. So I wouldn't say how glad I am that some of us won, but we certainly did. Therefore, the EPS was in a public tender and this is a newspaper compared to all previous years related to the supply of EPS electricity. What our plan is, and what I announced, is that the EPS Power Sales Directorate will become a company that can go out from 2013 on the market and buy electricity like anyone can. So far, the situation, unfortunately, has been different, some others have been on markets and sold, or reselling that electricity. So it was a public tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9055	Thank you. Wait a minute. There are more replicas. Zoran Ostojić has an advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9056	I appreciate that, but if you answer the tender of the Republika Srpska Elektroprivreda, they say – who should get our electricity more. We can't brag about how we beat some who... So we gave the highest price, and we beat them. The two undisputed fact is that the law arrived yesterday, it starts to apply tomorrow and that the Committee on European Integration has not passed and that it has no opinion from the European Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9057	The word has Zorana Mihajlovic, minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9058	Two things. I'm not going to let absolutely never take what's a good thing, and the good thing is that EPS went out in the tender and got the first power after 12 years in a public tender and did not get interventions and that he did not get it the way he did the previous year. That's why I'm primarily reacting, I might be silent, but the public of Serbia needs to know that this was the first time done and that might be the best thing this ministry has done in the previous four months. So, we supported the EPS coming out in a public tender, and at the Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska, he obtained the necessary amounts of electricity for 2013. About the Committee on European Integration. The moment you no longer had arguments on that committee, you took refuge and gave no quorum, not you, but your colleagues from the Democratic Party. Therefore, if the Office for European Integration of the Government also gave its opinion and that positive opinion, if everyone else gave their positive opinion, if we have complete all communication with the European Commission delegation that you already mentioned and if we had a public debate, I don't know why you didn't want to give the quorum, but you definitely didn't give it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9059	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? By the injury of the Rules of Procedure, Petar Skundric. (Zoran Ostojić, from the place: Please, how do we give the quorum when we are not most? Please don't throw it away, wait, answer it, I don't understand what you're throwing away. Please, sir, report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9060	I'm reporting under Article 107. I don't want this to be a replica compared to the distinguished minister of mine, but I would ask that we be very specific in the evaluations and the data that we present. When it comes to the energy licenses issued, they are issued under the 2004 law... (President: Mr. Skundric, with all due respect to you, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to discuss this injury and discuss it, and now you're actually replicating it and I can't let you do it, then I'm making a breach of the Rules of Procedure. No, I want to point out that this is where it's said... (President: You must explain what the breach of the Rules of Procedure was done. ) A violation of the Rules of Procedure was carried out in an indeterminate manner. Here's an example, please, citizens listen, it's said there's been a resale of energy permits. The resale of energy permits cannot be done, they were reselling companies that received energy permits. That's two different things because it turns out to be the other way around.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9061	Mr. Skundric, please, I'm so very different from that of the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking you not to mix those two ideas. We go in order, so this is how - Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Ostojić, and for these others I will see if they are right.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Ostojic spoke about the Law on Public Procurement, said they reportedly wrote in the paper that the Law on Public Procurement had changed under the influence of some stakeholders. Also, this same gentleman could read the bill given to him, or given to his MP group 15 days earlier than he entered the congregation procedure, not the newspaper. As far as I'm concerned, has it changed? The difference between the draft laws that all the heads of the parliamentary groups received and this proposal that entered the assembly procedure was only changed on the basis of the EU directives, which means they asked us to enter into the law. If the EU directives are stakeholders, then I don't know what to say about you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9063	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9064	Member of the 107th Dignity of the Assembly and 27th I think that to accuse the opposition of bringing down the quorum on some committee in the assembly, it's a really big insult to this assembly. Because of the citizens, you were the chairman who was obliged to act. In each of the committees of the Serbian Parliament since it exists, there has been a majority ruling which is why it is called the ruling majority, because it has a majority. So if someone "killed" the quorum, they're MPs of the ruling majority, not the opposition. Next, it's not true that the board lost the quorum because of it. The committee lost the quorum because the co-worker of the minister or co-workers was a direct question of several MPs – whether there was an opinion of the European Commission on this law, the answer was – no. Let me finish. (President: You must explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So you were obliged to respond to this by Article 27. Among other things, this is said and that is why people need to know the context because the Public Procurement Act stood three weeks before the arrival on the agenda, and this energy law was given to MPs on Friday night and is asked to adopt it and to apply from next Saturday. Why, if he's so accurate and honest, why didn't he stand up like the Public Procurement Act, what's the problem? Without the opinion of the European Commission, by emergency procedure, on Friday night, on Monday, on the agenda, a unclear law. Clearly, it's all about scrambling. You, as chairman, had to correct it at the moment when the debate began, rather than allow dignity to be insulted by both the Assembly and citizens by the opposition knocking down the quorum and that is why he allegedly does not have the consent of the European Commission. It's not because it's Christmas. We have proposed to postpone the adoption of the law for seven days, so when the European Commission returns to Serbia to hear their opinion, then we will trust the Government's office that this is in line with European integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9065	I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. You should have advertised that earlier. You have the right to request that the Assembly declare this in the voting day. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9066	No, I have to say, a moment, I apologize. A few things, the Committee on European Integration, led by the opposition, as far as I know. The board president is Mrs. Milica Delevic, am I right? (Ivan Andric, from the place: What does it matter? ) Just a second, since you started with that opposition – position, let's go about it now. So you just got off the board. On your question about the European Commission and the opinion of the European Commission, to repeat once again, I will repeat a million more times, amend and supplement the Energy Act, do not have to get an opinion and should not and should not be asked for the opinion of the European Commission, but therefore, the amendments and additions to the Energy Act, however persistent you are, I will be even more persistent. Therefore, amendments and additions to the Energy Act must have the opinion of the Office for European Integration. The European Integration Office, as well as all other ministries, gave a positive opinion. What you're saying is that the Public Procurement Act was three weeks, yeah, that's one huge, big, law, and it was supposed to be three weeks. These are amendments and additions, ten members of the Energy Act alone, compared to 208, how many of these laws are in place. So you can't compare these two things, because this isn't a new energy law. Once again, I apologize for saying that DS members came out of the Committee on European Integration, it was you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9067	Thank you. (Ivan Andrić, from the place: Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104) The word is Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9068	You know what, ma'am, I did get out of the session the moment it was announced there was no quorum. (President: Tell me a member only. ) Article 104, I told you. So, I came out after it was said that there was no quorum anymore, and here are your MPs who were, and that we were just discussing it like this, and that it wouldn't be brought with it...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9069	Mr. Andric, please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9070	Mr. General, let me finish, so you can continue in your spirit to do whatever you want to destroy, argue, just let me say two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9071	I want to say the same thing. You can applaud whatever you want. I'm not as stupid as I am to not distinguish a breach of the Rules of Procedure from a replica, and you can be as angry as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9072	Bravo, bravo. (The emissary left the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9073	The word is Zoran Kasalovic, on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9074	As an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9075	Wait a minute. The word is Dejan Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9076	Dear Vice President, we accept...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9077	Mr. Nikolic, what is your replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9078	Speaking of DS, I'm an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9079	You are an authorised representative, then you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9080	Minister, on behalf of the DS, I accept your apology. Another piece of information, each board has 17 members. Nine members are from the ruling coalition. The Democratic Party took part in this committee with its three members. The point is, you didn't have the answers to the questions we asked back then. You didn't do well to be on that committee. Your associates had no questions about the inadequacy of this law. You couldn't force your MPs, or the ruling majority to attend that session, because you simply didn't have the answers to the questions we were asking there. You've knocked down the quorum, we don't give the quorum, but once again, I accept the apology and we'll talk a lot more about this when it comes to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9081	Thank you. The replica was owned by Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9082	I'm mentioned, and I'm still authorized. Mr. Arsic, so I don't want to move on, I'm just saying, it says today, I can't say it in the paper, because it's not everything that's sold on the newsstand, but let's put it this way, it says in some kind of official messenger. It's a shopping note. The official messenger is because it announces who's going to be arrested tomorrow, sort of. He knows before the DA does. It says here that the law has been amended, just before coming to parliament. It's a great honor that the law was available to us in Parliament for 15 days. That's not controversial. We commended you for that. We're just saying, what wasn't this one? Doesn't it matter what's complicated, less complicated, few members? As far as we're concerned, I'm not going to say the name of that printed thing, because I just don't want to advertise. I didn't make it up, I read it. If you say – what it says is not true, I accept it. I believe in these printed things a lot isn't true and I know. Although, these arrests have proved to be true. It's in the paper. I didn't make it up. This has been changed, obviously these people have been involved in some way in making, writing draft laws and proposals. And when the final version came right, on time, two weeks earlier, someone felt hit. It's possible they're dissatisfied interest groups, I'm not getting into it. I was just quoting what I read today in a press clip.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9083	Replica, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9084	I'll be brief. Sir, not to speak personally, not to violate the Rules of Procedure, I apologize, but if a subject touches you, this is a parliamentary law, not the law of the Ministry, of the Government, of a state body, this is a law of Parliament. There was a bill that was on the SNS site. A task force was formed in which they participated, not from one organ, but from several organs. It was called on all political parties to participate in the draft law. Some have accepted, some have not. Here, be assured that as a member of the Working Party for the Construction of the Public Procurement Act, the draft law on public procurement, no one has ever put pressure on any of the stakeholders, provided that the pressure has been reached in law. You can check that out. Fifteen days was the law in the assembly procedure, and all the heads of parliament received a bill 15 days before entering the procedure. So, for a month, you could have been looking at the law for, like, a month. There are no important changes, what the heads of parliament received and what eventually entered into the assembly procedure, nothing that could change the essence of the law or anyone else's rights that did not belong to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9085	Thank you. He has the word National MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9086	The Honorable Chairman, the respected legislators of this set of laws, we have pointed to a truly strange merger of several points within this joint debate and said how pointless this is, because the laws are disproportionate. As proof of that, there are also a number of authorised promoters, so my debate must be divided just like that. The first part of the story will refer to the Vojvodina Development Fund. Here, in the last month, we've been discussing for the third time something that comes from the assembly of the AP Vojvodina. This time on the establishment of the Vojvodina Development Fund, which, as we heard from you and some MPs, became as such until February of this year, abolished by the decision of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, attached to the Development Bank and after a short nine months returns in this form which was proposed in this law. We are interested in what has been spectacularly happening in these ten months, that from the justification of the decision made in February of the month, to shut down the fund and attach it to the Development Bank, so far a new justification for forming the new Vojvodina Development Fund. On the other hand, we should also know that until the end, we have to clear up the story of the Vojvodina Development Bank, since in the debate on budget rebalancing, firstly, and later in the Republic of Serbia's budget, there have been a lot of stories about the Vojvodina Development Bank, whether it is a healthy bank or not, whether it is necessary to intervene to save deposits, whether the state of Serbia should cover those deposits under the Deposit Insurance Act. There has been a debate here for several days and quite audible of those who have defended this Vojvodine Development Bank, that its clients are healthy and that all the insinuations on this subject are indeed malicious, and we have heard from you that the Vojvodine Development Bank should be rehabilitated, that some of the healthy funds should pass the Development Fund so that we are interested in what happened in these 20 days from the story that the bank is healthy to the story that they need to be saved and that they should be saved by the measles who were unhealthy. There are a few things about the DSS that are not clear in this law. The first is that the Vojvodina Development Fund will operate in accordance with the Business Society Act, therefore, as a limited liability society. The objectives of the Fund are defined by Article 4 of the development of the economy, agriculture, the promotion of the establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurship, employment, promotion of exports, the promotion of balanced regional development, etc. However, Article 6 states that the Development Fund performs tasks relating to credit approval, trading of securities of value, acquisition of shares and shares on the basis of legal transactions, including conversion of claims. So, those profit-and-bank jobs. The Development Fund, or the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, the Vojvodina Development Fund should be an analogy of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, deals primarily with the approval and financing of development-related projects. He doesn't do profitable business, he doesn't do securities, he doesn't do bank business. I think the AP Vojvodina Development Fund should deal with development, development projects, not profitable projects and commercial placements. That's what we had at Vojvodina Development Bank, so we know what he's like. Another thing that is not clear to us here is the placement of funds from the AP Vojvodina Fund for the Development of the AP Vojvodina. We believe that the analogue rules in force in the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and the placement of funds from this Development Fund should primarily be directed to entities from undeveloped areas. This law cannot be seen, because the essence of the Development Fund should be to encourage development and development projects, primarily underdeveloped areas. There's no such thing in this law. We also have a fundamental remark that the entities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina will have the opportunity to apply for projects in this development fund, but will, in parallel, have the opportunity to apply for the funds of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, which is generally not illegal, but leaves other citizens and entities from other parts of Serbia in an unequal position, as is the case with funds from the Capital Investment Fund and some other incentive funds from the ministries that the entities that the territories of the AP Vojvodina have a practical double funding which comes from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, as well as from the territory and the level of the Republic of Serbia. The second set of laws concerns the borrowing and ratification of the debt contract guaranteed by the Republika Srpska Assembly for JAT "Airways", 10m euros, for Galenika 15m euros and two debt laws for "Srbigas". One for the start of the South Stream project is 30m euros and 170m euros for liquid liquidity. That is a total of 225m euros, of which 200m euros are intended for "Srbigas". Let me remind you, a month ago, on November 24th or 25th, this assembly ratified the loan agreement "Serbiagas" for 190m euros, also for liquid liquidity. Tell me, how many loans and how many ratifications does this assembly have to do to keep Srbigas alive? How much longer does the state cover someone's unconscious or poor business? It is truly totally irresponsible and unserious that in a month, the Assembly gives huge loans twice, i.e. to ratify huge loans to "Serbiagas" without having any analysis of how much "Srbigas" is really in charge, on which basis it is in charge, whether it is based on non-resonal takeover of companies such as "Agrozivo", Azotara Pančevo and similar. To remind me, Azotara Panchevo, when she was taken over by "Serbiagas", suffered a loss of 84m euros. Current losses are estimated at 360m euros. Who's going to be responsible for such a bad business? Here for days we were convinced that it was a real job and that it was saving Azotara. On whose back? Who's gonna pay for that rescue? We also talked about budget rebalancing, how Srbigas operates. You don't have any financial statements to find on the Srbigas site since 2007. You don't have a single financial document or an audit. We heard from the state auditor today that they had a lot of problems with the Serbian audit business, that the job was delayed beyond the deadline that was scheduled, that they were even obstructed by employees at the Serbians, so I ask why they are resorting to ratification of another loan when the situation is such that it is obvious that "Srbiagas" is operating very irrationally and that it is absolutely not clean work? Why don't we wait for the State Auditor's report, see how old they are in "Serbiagas", and then on the basis of that data, and on the basis of the data, how much "Serbigas" really is in charge and how liquid it is that he can repay those debts, that we're going to start to approve new loans? It's really completely unreasonable and irrational and unresonal to put this much money in a bottomless hole. As one of my predecessors said, they'll obviously have to cover up various donations for cultural and sports events, sports clubs and other things. We're not essentially against investment-related debts. The 30m-euro debt to the "South Stream" and the start of the implementation of the project are indeed essential to Serbia. Serbia will also secure its position in the energy map and energy stability in the long term for the next 50-100 years. This project is truly of capital importance. We don't mind that for these purposes, the state is in charge of giving guarantees, but we still don't understand why "Serbigasu"? As far as I know, a joint firm called "Srbijagas" and a Russian partner called "South Stream", based in Novi Sad, where Dusan Bajatovic has already registered as director and where it is expected that the company will build the "South Stream". Is the ministry aware of this and will the government approve that part of the investment concerning the construction of the South Stream passes through Serbia and is approved, or is it done through the company "South Stream"? I think the government should approve of something like that. "Gallenice" and "JAT" are also absolutely unacceptable to us. Galenika had an affair two years ago with huge embezzlements, as far as I know and the previous director has been removed and he's been led against it. We don't have the results of that affair. It is now proposed that 15m euros be charged with "Gallenika" to guarantee the state. We know that over 250m euros in Galenika owes, the question is, is this a waste of money in a well, irreparable without being able to be returned? JAT Airways is another loser, 10 million euros. We will also not support this borrowing, because we are sure that this will fall on the burden of the state, or on the burden of all taxpayers. In principle, since I live in Nis, and we do not have the honor of having JAT, a national company based in Belgrade, decent people who do not live in Belgrade, fly from another airport, I have no right to support such a thing. JAT Airways does not want, refuses to fly with other airports except from Belgrade, as if the citizens of Southeast Serbia, western Serbia or any other part of Serbia are citizens of the second row, so the state will guarantee JAT as a loser, to fly from Belgrade's airport, but JAT will be able to choose not to fly from Nis, because it is his right. As for these two laws, which we think are crucial, which is a ratification of the treaty with the Republic of Italy, or agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy in the field of energy, there are many things to be said. I'll just say some of the most important things. It's about the next thing. Under the agreement, the government of the Republic of Serbia will approve the government of Italy, i.e. a partner on their part, to build energy facilities, small hydropower plants on the middle flow of Drina and on Ibra. Also, under this agreement, there is the possibility of building more power plants and wind parks on Serbia's territory, and all for the purposes of the Italian energy market. There's a very logical question, which I believe you'll give an answer to, or someone else in this room. If it is evident that the state of Serbia imports more electricity today than it produces in a year's time, or sales and exports, something more, and certainly with the development and passing of the period for the next 10-15 years, and the energy needs will grow, how is it possible that those energy resources that we have and which are not inexhaustible, and as far as water streams are concerned, we make it available to someone, in this case to the Italians, that they use for their own needs without us undermining our needs? We'll get into a situation where all the electricity produced from Ibra or maybe tomorrow from Drina will be exported to Italy and we'll have to buy some other electricity from the side when we need it. You know what I'm talking about. Serbia annually pays 700m kilowatt hours and more imports than exports, it pays some money. It is completely abnormal for you not to use your energy resources for your own needs, but rather to give them to someone on the side, and especially from the aspect of the commitments we have made under the Green Energy Treaty with the European Council, where Serbia should produce as much as 27% of green energy, or renewable energy by 2020. I don't want to talk about how unfavourable this negotiation, which the previous government has done, where it has obliged the state to produce 27% of the energy from renewable sources, but from that aspect, of this imposition that has been introduced, this agreement seems completely absurd. Instead of using these resources we have to reach this percentage, we're going to make these resources available to Ibra, perhaps even to Drina's Italian partner. It will withdraw all energy, meet its energy needs and increase its percentage, not ours, the participation in green energy that each country has in accordance with the Agreement on the Production and Use of Green Energy. As for the Energy Act, or the amendment of the Energy Act, we have a few things that we have fundamental objections to. For us, it is understandable, fully justified and we support that the ministry must exercise greater control of the energy permits issued and we agree that these energy permits and consent should have a time limit, as well as that the ministry has the opportunity to withdraw energy permits and consent after a certain period of time. Each state, i.e. the competent ministry, has an obligation to create conditions for the use of resources and to create an environment for achieving as easy as possible, for the greater use of these natural resources, through legislation that will be extremely simple, efficient and rapid. In that sense, some things are not clear to us, e.g. Article 34a says the authorisation is withdrawn if it does not apply for a local authorisation within six months. For a location permit, an idea project, evidence of resolved legal-imvine relations, the ministry's consent, or energy license, water economic consent, the EPS's consent to accession should be submitted. When consent is obtained from the ministry for proof of resolved legal-imvine relations throughout the course, for example, for a small hydropower plant, you necessarily need 99.9% of cases of "Serbishum" consent. You know how long that process lasts, from three months to more. The agreement of the "Serbijavoda" also for several months, the consent of the Elektroprivreda also for several months. Do you think it's possible to get all these consents in six months and apply for a location permit? I'm afraid not. This deadline is too short and having experience with bureaucracy, which is the way it is, many will be in a situation to take away their energy consent or energy license. Article 34 says -- there is a demand for proof of financial ability, but there is no emphasis on what is evidence, what is evidence of financial ability, to build an object. The explanation says it's a bank guarantee. To get a bank guarantee, the bank will give you a guarantee if you have a building permit. In order to get a building permit, you must have the consent of the ministry. In order to get the ministry's consent, you have to have a bank guarantee. You've made a vicious circle that's impossible to carry out. That member is absolutely inadmissible. Article 10, retroactiveness, it is absolutely unacceptable that those people who have received energy permits or started building, say – the procedures that have started... . (Chairman:Time, Mr. Lapčević. ) The procedures that have begun until the date of entry into force of this law will end with the provisions of this law. We think this is an unconstitutional provision and it can't be applied. It simply cannot introduce unpredictability in the business of building an investment in this way. We have submitted amendments to everything I've said, like things that are not clear to us, I believe we will have the opportunity to talk about it in amendments and that some things will be corrected, which would lead to the law to be acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9087	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9088	A few questions, or a few answers. Regarding the South Stream, which you mentioned, yes, there is a joint venture compared to 49% of Serbia – 51% of Gazprom's daughter, related to the construction of South Stream. And of course, in the part where Serbia participates in the joint venture, which is otherwise the owner of the project and will own the project in South Stream, the percentage is also responsible and will participate in the construction of South Stream. In that sense, it is certainly necessary, when we talk about debt and when we talk about South Stream, yes, that is the company that owns the project and in this sense, Serbiagas is part of the company of 49%. I would no longer comment on whether Bajatovic is there. So, it is Serbiagas who delegates his representative to the joint venture. Today, Serbia has a director-general appointed to the government, on a proposal from the SPS, and his name is Dusan Bajatovic. Another thing, Italy – Serbia, I have to tell you right from the start, it is an inherited agreement from previous or previous governments. There are our obligations that you mentioned, which is that by 2020 we have 27% of renewable energy in final energy consumption. This ministry has created a National Action Plan for the Use of Energy Sources. We, among other things, are sending it to the energy community tomorrow, and in that plan, we predicted that we would get to that 27% share of renewable energy in final energy consumption, without an energy agreement with Italy, just given what you just said. We've got exactly that from a hydropower plant over ten megawatts, we're going to have 250 megawatts or 23%. From small hydropower plants we will have about 17%, from wind energy 46, from energy from the sun one, from biomass, and above all from cogeneration nine, biogas three, geothermal 0.1, waste 0.3, deposit gas one. We've just managed that, first of all, it's an interstate agreement and we can't count on it to be part of our green energy balance, and there you're absolutely right. With regard to the amendments to the Energy Act itself, I cannot agree with you, regarding the location permit itself, because everything that is in the area of the Energy Ministry's authority, this applies to certain ECS permits that you have mentioned now, we, as a ministry, will influence that these permits, and not only the permits, consent, whatever it takes, get as soon as possible, just so that the investor doesn't have a problem. This was the beginning, so, with these amendments and the additions to the law, to oblige the investor that he has some obligation when he gets any consent, there was an energy permit, and to get this facility back up as soon as possible. When you speak of this retroactivity, therefore, they will retain their right, acquired right and with a period of three plus one year, unless they complete their object, then they will be deprived of their license under new amendments and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9089	Thank you. Milan Lapčević, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9090	I'll be brief. What you were saying about the agreement with Italy, that it was an inherited project. I know it is an inherited project, but this agreement also says that any party can break this agreement. If he's not good enough and good enough, why don't we break him up? If he doesn't respect our interests as they should be, then why would they ratify something that isn't to the end for us? I don't see where the interest of the Serbian state is. What is the interest of the Serbian state? The Italian partner will have 51% in the joint venture. On that basis, they will also have management rights. You know how it works when you have management rights, you see that the profits of that company are as small as possible, in every way possible, money will be poured out of that company and the profits will be minimal, because they are divided. You know the Mobtel case, as it was done, that's a elaborate story a long time ago. You were talking about how you made a plan to reach those 27%, not respecting these resources we have, on Drina and on Ibra. The estimated amount of energy that can be obtained from the power plants on Drina and Ibra and from the wind generators is about a thousand megawatts. How much are we going to get from small hydropower plants, which are going to be on a Bistrica or a stream, on the Old Mountain, or who knows where? These are the main energy resources Serbia has, and these resources are not inexhaustible. We give the dry gold, the highest quality resources and the greatest resources to the Italians. I'm not saying we give them away for nothing, but we don't respect our interests. I guess we should watch ourselves first. Why didn't we take credit to build those power plants and sell that electricity? Isn't that logical? Will an Italian partner with living money make money? He won't, and he'll take the loans. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9091	Time. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9092	It can't be said that we have absolutely no use for it, because the price of electricity at which we're going to sell it to the Italians is 155 euros per megawatt hour. It's a guaranteed price, very high. If you remember, 15 minutes ago, I mentioned the price of electricity we buy. So 155 euros per megawatt hour, that's the first thing. The second thing, if we should continue to work this out, there will be power plants here, according to the agreement itself, is about 800 megawatts, but according to what we now have in the projects, it's about 350, 360 megawatts, and the investment value is estimated to be about 600m euros. I believe that what is being built in our country, so no other companies will be hired, but our Serbian, domestic companies will be engaged. So it can't be said that it has absolutely no interest in Serbia, and I especially note the interest in the guaranteed ransom price. When you mentioned how we're going to do that from small hydropower plants, the 27%, I said that from small hydropower plants to 10 megawatts we're going to have 17% in that total amount, and that's somewhere around 188 megawatts. I don't think we took advantage of all the potential. It's also lower Drina and Morava. We did not create this action plan for the use of renewable sources on a flat-rate basis, but we did it very in detail, not just because of our obligations, but because it is our interest to make the most of renewable energy sources, because when you have a domestic source, we agree, and therefore we are more energy-resistant and less importing electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9093	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milan Lapčević and we end the cycle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9094	Great of you to mention this information. All remaining resources will be 180 megawatts, and those mentioned will go to the Italians 350 megawatts, as many as 360, and will cost building these capacities 600m euros. We only approve Serbia's 200 now. What was the problem with giving the EPS to do that and selling energy to the final? Only the most underdeveloped and, not to say, the countries with the weakest intellectual capacity give their raw materials, don't sell final products. Is it possible that we can't build power plants and sell final electricity? 155 euros per megawatt will be paid, yes, but we will not sell, but a joint company where Italians have 51% and we have 49%. Do you know how that capital, when you make a profit, how it shows itself? You've had enough of the Mobtel case, and I don't know which other joint ventures. It's always the joint venture that has the smallest profit. So there's not much bread. What we give is dry gold, and for that we get a cat in a bag. It's simple, we're slaughtering the ox for a kilo of meat. Energy resources must be too much in the interests of the citizens of this country, and only then, when we get over what we need, can we be given.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9095	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9096	A little supplement. Small hydropower plants 188 megawatts, hydropower plants over 10 megawatts, 250 megawatts and all that, along with biomass, wind energy, etc., gives us a percentage of 27. It's not a percentage issue here, just. I completely agree with you, it is a joint venture and the EPS has 49% and owns 49%. I don't want to believe in conspiracy theories. I believe that some things have changed and will change, so the EPS will also benefit from such a job. Once again, I note, probably that this energy agreement is now being done, I believe that some things could change, but there are some inherited things that can't be changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9097	Thank you. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9098	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, will support the SPS parliamentary club in principle all draft laws which are under discussion at the moment. In short, in my time as an authorised representative of the Parliament club, I will try to explain this attitude with an accent, first of all, to the draft law on the AP Vojvodina Development Fund, which I will begin with. The SPS Parliament Club, in any case, supports the agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the transfer of assets and liabilities of the "Vojvodine Development Bank", or agreements from which the law that we have recently adopted on the takeover of property and liabilities of certain banks has been implemented, in order to preserve the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. It is obviously an optimal financial and political solution, under the auspices of the NBS, and it certainly deserves our support. This model passed a kind of test when it came to "New Agrobank" and most importantly, certainly the roles of depositors, i.e. savings in this way, are protected. I will remind you, it is 110m euros secured, about 100m unsecured deposits and about 80,000 depositors. On this occasion, I would agree with Mr. Pastor's point of view that the debate in the Assembly is not a place where facts would be determined. However, the debate in the Assembly certainly is a place where competent authorities can be called upon and called on to determine the facts. What's also interesting to us is to ask - who's responsible for the current situation at Vojvodina Development Bank? Who considered and made an economically unwarranted decision on the capitalisation of Vojvodina Development Bank? Who lost the time that caused the lack of trust in financial systems created political tensions? Someone should be responsible, but to bear political responsibility and citizens deserve that kind of response. Political tensions in this way were created at a time when they didn't have time. They never had time, but at least at this point they were, when the Republic of Serbia is really in a difficult financial situation and there are great challenges in resolving KIM status. Also, we are witnessing significant fights and huge efforts by the state of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia in the fight against crime and corruption, and we are expected to face significant commitments in European integration. Certainly, these views deserve at least or most to show who is politically responsible for such a situation and such offered solutions to the "Vojvodina Development Bank"? This time, the process of taking over property and liabilities in this way will certainly be transparent and the good part will also dictate the way of the takeover, and the banking system will certainly be protected from possible... What is foreseen by this bill, as provided for in Articles 2rd and 6th, of the Development Fund's core capital, is a monetary stake of 10 million dinars, which will be held by the AP Vojvodina with 78.11%, the Republic of Serbia with 21.89%, is important that it is proportionate to this participation to achieve the right to manage. [[Disabled microphone.]] In previous discussions, too, when topics were being discussed, and for the third time we have the mandated proposer of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, we have expressed the view that the SPS considers and understands the autonomy of Vojvodina as a fundamental framework for improving and creating an optimal economic and social, cultural environment for the development of the AP Vojvodina and for the better life of all its citizens within the Republic of Serbia and not as a field for day-to-day political promotions of parties, of which citizens certainly have no benefit. On the contrary, we are aware that this best devalues the idea and essence of Vojvodina's autonomy. When it comes to the bill's proposal, what objectives and essence are shown in Article 4 where it has already been established and here it is already stated, but I will repeat, that the Development Fund participates in the implementation of programmes and projects, so it is listed – the development of the economy, the development of agriculture, the promotion of the establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises, the promotion of employment, the promotion of exports, the promotion of equal regional development and other programmes. These are certainly the goals that deserve our support. Certainly, the amendment that the colleagues of the PUPS Parliament Club have submitted and added, as regards social entrepreneurship, these are the objectives that deserve our support. What I'm saying is that the Duke's Development Fund is undoubtedly... . One of the potential potentials available in the current AP Vojvodina administration in the realisation of these objectives, which in our view, therefore, are the essence of autonomy, is the basis for a better life for all citizens. [[Disabled microphone.]] I'd like to do a little crackdown and look at the Fund's work results from 2002 to 2012, the Fund's work programme, the Fund's statutes, from which certain conclusions can really be drawn, first of all, on how the Fund worked, and certainly on how it should work in the future. One of the objectives was even regional development, as a declared goal, but it is very lowly targeted in these declared objectives. For example, and the criteria of the level of development of the municipality, when the funds were allocated and the evaluation of the projects were very negligible. As a citizen of Vojvodina, I am sure that I share the position of the vast majority of the people of Vojvodina, that we are against new sedation, because it is a process that is certainly not in line with even regional development. If that were the case, I will provide certain data in the review of the implemented loans of the AP Vojvodina Fund from 2002 to 2012, it is also available on the site, where it can be seen that Novi Sad has 536 realised loans worth 47,702,934 euros. I will read to you because of the public who are the municipalities: Sremski Karlovci, Opovo, Novi Knezevic, Titel, Irig, Beocin, Srbobran, Kovačica, Čoka, Novi Bečej, Apatin, Senta, Plandište, Froglj, Žitište, Kanjiža, Mali Idjoš, Pećinci, Nova Crnja, Sječanj, Baki Petrovac, Stara Pazova, Kovin, Bac. They have less funds than the New Sad. The data would be even more drastic, probably, if we look at the approved credit reports in 2011. There's no New Sad, and there's 39 municipalities, so it's probably something in that domain that's a little bit reduced, that relationship. I don't think this kind of practice and this kind of development fund policy can be acceptable. You can also see a certain concentration of funds in Bačka. It is certainly something that some lessons in future work need to be learned. We have submitted a certain amendment to Article 5, where there was a provision in Section 5 that the Development Fund may have its own organisational units on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. We feel personally that the Development Fund has its own organisational units. There should be, because that would certainly bring the potential of the fund closer to all municipalities, especially the underdeveloped ones. Perhaps you too will say that one excuse for such a situation is that certain municipalities, some districts did not have enough quality projects, or perhaps they did not have enough coverage for certain amounts of credit. In this respect, one step towards these municipalities should certainly be offered certain projects to enable them, to write quality and good projects, to finance them, and thus try to make a credible bid for allocations, because it would certainly be one way to develop them evenly. In this way, there is certainly an even bigger gap, an even bigger discrepancy between Novi Sad and certain municipalities. And Subotica is in second place, which has almost two and a half to three times less resources. So it's not just about these municipalities where there are more underdeveloped municipalities, there are more developed municipalities, but this trend can be documented. On the other hand, the development of agriculture, as one of the objectives, is an absolute priority, and we support it. He is a priority at the state level. Again, I would like to say to this occasion, with all the investments we have had, with all the recommendations, with all the announcements, we have welcomed the unprepared climate conditions in Vojvodina. Looking also through the county, which one of the largest, Centralbanese districts, whose centre is Zrenjanin, from which I encourage, we had a situation that, above all, individual agricultural cultures, started from corn, which had more than 50% reduced yields, and over corn, soy and sugar tails, where it went from 18 to 35 percent reduced yield compared to average. Also, when it comes to livestock farming, year by year, we have a reduced stock fund, and this year it will be a decrease of about ten percent. One of the objectives declared was to encourage the development of entrepreneurship. Also, in the Central Banat County, and I believe in some others, the biggest drop in employment is just being recorded with entrepreneurs in 2012, which is about 6.3%. Also, the declared goal was to raise the level of technical and technological equipment, to stimulate technology development in the Zrenjanin County. You have about 1,100 highly educated and unemployed. It is thought to be the technical and technological unwillingness of the county's economy to accept highly educated personnel. To this I add that the average salary paid for August is 11% lower than the republican average. We have, say, New Vienna, I don't have accurate data on others, but I'm going to use this, as much as 26% lower than the Republic, and by as much as 8% of the province average. So we also see the difference between the republican and the province average. All of these declared goals, when you look through this prism, we can figure out, not in the good part, and that the policy, which has been led so far and in the development fund, I said, as one of the main levers for the realisation of these goals, was a policy of many, many missed opportunities. Of course, there is an objective responsibility for those who have performed, but it is also a great obligation for those who will lead in the future this fund and the policies of the AP Vojvodina to learn lessons from the way in which I have talked about policy and this information, and to direct all available potentials towards realisation of these declared objectives as referred to in Article 4, and will be implemented in the manner that it is said in Article 6. We will then get real problems solved on the ground, about those you spoke of, Mr. Pastor, in previous discussions, which is solving the issues of water, sewerage, school, kindergarten, development of the economy, the employment of citizens. We still have a large number of municipalities in Vojvodina that don't have these basic problems solved. The Socialist Party of Serbia is an opposition party in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, but I want to say that we are ready to support one such policy in this status, I would say a new policy, directed, as I said, towards essential autonomy, i.e. optimal development of all the potentials of the AP Vojvodina, and that we offer our party's party potential and position in the government of the Republic of Serbia to realise such a policy, of course, in agreement with the institutions of the AP Vojvodina, and in the way you said we are solving problems in the institutions of the Serbian and AP Vojvodina. We want to participate in defining a solution to the future law on financing the powers of the AP Vojvodina, which we consider extremely significant, above all in terms of overcoming and avoiding certain inaccuracies, and above all unnecessary political tensions. Due to all this above, the SPS will in principle support this agreement, which resulted in a series of moves concerning the "Vojvodine Development Bank" and the AP Vojvodina Development Fund, of course, this draft law on the AP Vojvodina Development Fund. When it comes to other draft laws that are subject to the principle debate, the proposals for a law on guarantees from the Serbian state for borrowing, above all, have been mentioned several times by the public company "Serbia" and other public enterprises. Most speakers didn't want to tell the truth until the end, and it is such that currently "Srbigas" gets gas at the price of 47 dinars and sells it for 35 dinars, which means that the loss of 12 dinars per cubic metre. The loss only in the fourth quarter will produce 75m euros in losses for "Srbigas". It is the price of preserving the standards of our citizens and the social status of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What is indeed to be said, and Mrs Grubjesic said, the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 has defined a policy in terms of borrowing and in 2013 "Serbijagas" will not be able to take liquidity loans, as well as other public enterprises, but the guarantees for borrowing for capital investment will be possible in 2013. What is being done today is the policy that has been and has been defined by the 2012 budget. According to the Public Debt Act, the National Assembly is passing a law, and the 2011 budget of the Republic of Serbia provides for the means to provide guarantees for the approval of this loan to "Srbigas". Solutions are also sought by the government of the Republic of Serbia, "Srbigas" is on track for a solution. It can be in the sense that the real price is offered, that certain favourable contracts are reached in the purchase of gas or perhaps some modification in these two models that I am talking about, which will certainly be defined as some policy in 2012. The state audit institution is estimating the complexity of a system such as "Srbigas" finished the audit work, but it should be said that the process is ongoing and there is no mystification, but simply doing so by clearing up meetings, defining some vague positions and no mystery whatsoever. When DRI comes out with that report, the public will certainly be familiar, or DRI is used to it. As for the proposal to amend and supplement the laws on energy and the agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Italy on energy co-operation, I would like to say that the Prime Minister, Mr Ivica Dacic, in his exposé, gave the basic outlines of the government's policy and then clearly defined the comparative advantages and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia will deal with, which are agriculture, energy and infrastructure. All draft laws, and these two go in this direction, above all, to address certain shortcomings in the legal framework, when it comes to energy permits or consent and with the application, as we have heard in the explanation, the General Administrative Procedure Act will be met with certain material and formal legal conditions for the application of the requirements of natural and legal persons for the issue of energy permits and consent. So it is about defining a certain environment in this for the Republic of Serbia with a very significant natural resource and removing certain dangers. Italy is a country that is a very prominent member of the EU and certainly any co-operation, especially in this very important area, the Republic of Serbia is nice and Whatever, because this is an opportunity to achieve certain benefits, to improve our environment when it comes to the very important potential of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, let us draw closer to the standards and achievements of the EU in this area. For all of this and for all of the above, I would like to say once again that the SPS Parliament Club will absolutely in principle support all these draft laws which are the subject of the debate in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9099	Thank you. MP Gjorge Stojsic. I'm sorry, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9100	Mr. President, I'm really sorry. Article 96 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, with all due respect to the previous speaker and indeed very contentious debate, technically it seems to me that twice the time has been reset, and we have indeed, I think, been listening to one exhibit for over 30 minutes. It was a technical mistake, I don't think the intention is a question, but I have to point out that we're still taking care of these things, because we got in at 12 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9101	The deputy secretary, Mr. Vujovic, recorded, as one technical error was made and when I wasn't in the O.R., so I saw in fact that we have collected the time that has been spent so far. So, exactly 20 minutes, and I signaled Mr. Kasalovic and he respected it and ended it the moment he stood out for 20 minutes. I apologize to everyone once again for the technical error, but our system is, unfortunately, imperfect. We'll try to make it better in the future. Mr. Stojsic, sign in, please again, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9102	Thank you. Dear President, the honourable representatives of the promoters, ladies and gentlemen, I would first and foremost refer to the way in which the debate is united in all these points, given that they do not have much to do with each other, but for us, as LSDV, it is definitely the most important proposal for a law on the AP Vojvodina Development Fund, although we will look back on other points. In terms of this proposal, although this may be because of the way this point is discussed, in some ways a marginal economic topic, for the representatives of the AP Vojvodina is certainly a political issue first and foremost, because it paints a very good way of treating the province's institutions, and over the past few months we have been able to make sure that we do so on several occasions. From some broader political context, we can see a little bit that 25 years ago, when Milosevic organized so-called. The myths of truth about Kosovo, when it was said - Serb Serbia from three parts, you will again be whole, etc., on the other hand, the same Vojvodina also abolished autonomy and, in some ways, this is, say, some kind of zombie political philosophy, as it comes back to life after 25 years, that again, by dealing with Kosovo and some other topics, the Vojvodinas are abolishing the institutions that it has been painfully creating. At that time, the health fund, the pension fund, the development fund, and we are witnessing that this is still the case today, so from famous paroles -- arrest Vlasia, today the same arrest is so popular, Vlasia no longer has but we see that Vojvodina remains without institutions, especially those in which there are funds, and when Serbia falls into serious economic problems, the first thing that owners in Belgrade think about is that these funds may possibly exist in some institutions that are located in Novi Sad, so let's see faster and better, maybe we could find some surpluses there. In this context, we can consider the situation when, after the Council of Vojvodina's decision to recapitalise the Development Bank, this same development bank is the victim of months-long, many-week pressures by the minister himself, and finally we come into a situation that has to be magically shut down, because it does not meet liquidity and capital adequacy parameters, and therefore now, as a compromise solution, we need to establish the Vojvodina District Development Fund, which will be established with 10 million dinars. Ten million dinars for 200,000 unemployed in Vojvodina, so each unemployed to be given 500 dinars of credit, I don't know what exactly business can run for those funds. I think we're witnessing something we've seen a few times. We supported the concept that Vojvodina should have a development bank, not going into how the current development bank was doing, but if the criteria are that something that does with the loss should be abolished, then I understand why not to abolish both Jelizara Smederevo and Basen Bor, JAT, etc., which also work with loss, if that is the only criterion. Was she doing all right? No, I don't. Could he have been better management? Yeah. But should she be abolished as such? I think that the Vojvodina Assembly gave the answer to that question and that decision had to be respected, not to be disrespected by representatives of both the Vojvodina Assembly and the MPs and the citizens who elected them. Obviously, there is some obsession that all financial institutions that are not directly controlled by political oligarchy in Belgrade must either privatise or abolish. There used to be a Novi Sad bank and a Pan-Sad Bank and a Vojvodjanska Banka and a Kulska Banka and a Meridian and a Novi Sad was a financial centre in its time. These banks managed to survive the 1990s, which were extremely difficult for the economy and afterwards, over so-called. The Paris Club and the London Club were state-owned, created by the duchy economy and the duchy citizens and deposits built by them for decades, and the same banks. They were privatized overnight. Of course, all the money went to the budget. Today, the headquarters of these banks have been moved more or less to Belgrade and a single financial institution that has remained, or started to exist again in Novi Sad has now been abolished. Which is why there is such a view of people who have managed the financial sector in this country for almost a decade and a little more, I don't know, but obviously there is a consensus on this issue that there should never be any bank in Novi Sad that is not directly controlled by politicians from Belgrade. As far as the bill itself is concerned, I have already said, the founding role of ten million dinars cannot be compared to what was the activity we talked about and the capitalisation of 150m euros, because with ten million dinars, I don't see what you can develop in the region that has 200,000 unemployed and that over-needs investment in infrastructure. When I discussed my time on the Law on the Taking of Property and Obligation of Banks, which was proposed at the time, one of the documents was that Vojvodina had some economic specificities concerning the fact that there is a dominant branch of the agricultural economy, that there is an agri-industry complex that also has very long collection periods, investments in agriculture are also very specific and therefore it is necessary that there is a special financial institution that finances such sectors. I don't see how this fund is going to be capitalized at all, how it's going to come to funding. Does he get any credits? Is that going to be a capitalization? It's a limited-responsibility society. First that same fund was abolished, so it's attached to the Development Bank, and now it's showing up again. The liquidity risk, credit risk, interest risk and market risk are also listed. It just doesn't mention the political risk, which is most important to me when such entities are founded, because it's obviously just someone's political will that is the greatest risk for the existence of such an institution, or whether or not the Fund will have the funds. You know very well that the Republic budget has remained in debt for tens of billions of years to the old Development Fund. No one ever mentioned that again. The part of the privatisation revenue was intended to fill that fund. The agency never calculated exactly how much Vojvodina should get on that basis. I'm sure nothing better will happen in the case of this new development fund. All in all, we are far from the economic development of the state as a priority, not political control. Any good initiative ultimately comes down to whether or not a political party controls a particular institution. If we are already in favour of European integration and we are constantly talking about it, we cannot allow the regulation of the state to continue to be medieval. I really don't think we should live in some kind of political feudalism, where only the ruling oligarchy, which has the ministries of force and tax collection, can then share the resources as it likes, and that all citizens should be able to have their environments, specifically I come from small local self-government in Vojvodina, which is in an extremely difficult economic state, that everyone can adequately influence the development of their environment. There are certainly many practices within the EU. For example, Donja Saxonia is co-owner of the Folksvagen. We all know what kind of company it is. The government of Vojvodina until recently was neither co-owner nor co-owner of the building in which it was located. Not to mention some other resources and institutions. What happened with the Development Bank, I'll repeat, is just some sad trail of events that are obviously inevitable. After the Constitutional Court's decision on jurisdiction, this is just another type of pressure on the province's administration, which will have extremely big problems to maintain the competencies that have been returned to it in the last ten years. In any case, I think this is a dusting in the eyes of the people of Vojvodina, so that today-to-morrow an alibi exists that when someone might seek funds from the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia will be able to say – you have your own development fund, which is why you are addressing the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia? It wouldn't be the first time, because in the past it was a case, even though it couldn't compare the level of funds in one and another fund. We were constantly listening to stories of Vojvodina being some kind of engine of economic development, etc. It used to be maybe a diesel locomotive, and now it's not electric or diesel, it's a steam locomotive. Whatever it is, it certainly cannot go to empty promises and hens, as from one of the more developed regions within the former Yugoslavia we are now in a position to be more underdeveloped by all parameters than Belgrade and Serbia. All in all, LSV can't support a bill like this, since this is one rotten compromise that's not going to bring anything new to us. It will remain just one of the many institutions that will be under direct control, i.e. the will of those who have political power here in Belgrade. As for the other draft laws that are united at this point, this is the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Italy and in the area of energy and Serbia, I think there is a much more difficult problem here, and related to an electro-distributive network which, despite renewable energy, is today extremely popular. I'm not sure it's invested enough so far in a network that can support new energy sources. I know in particular that there is, although the Italian side would sell that energy at an advantageous price since green energy is sold, cable problems, i.e. the transmission of that energy under the Adriatic to Italy, which I don't even know if is mentioned in this agreement. In terms of the bill of amendments and additions to the Energy Act, you have probably seen from the means of public information, but what we are interested in is the treatment of Elektro-Vojvodini, which so far had no adequate power, or the management of Elektro-Vojvodina was in the position that, since it has the highest degree of charge and that it operates as a profitable part of the EPS, there is still a problem that whenever someone wants funds can simply switch to central accounts. That's what it's been like for many years.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9103	Mr. Stojsic, please, it has absolutely nothing to do with today's topic. Please, let's get back to the topic of the debate. I know that's interesting to you, but it really has nothing to do with the agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9104	All in all, the bill on amendments and additions to the Energy Act only interests us in the scope of what I was just talking about. Of course, there are guarantees related to JAT and Srbigas. We also learn from public information funds that there is some kind of strategy for JAT and that some new JAT will be formed, but I would really like to see some physibilities study that says it is economically profitable, because all those who do have ties to that industry are absolutely certain that small airlines, such as JAT, cannot survive alone on the market. It's even suggested that there be some association here in the region. So as long as it doesn't come out with some more basic JAT-related strategy, I think we're going to have to constantly approve of these guarantees, because they're going to continue to work with great losses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9105	Thank you. The word is Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9106	Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to look back at some of those topics that have appeared in the discussions of a larger number of debaters over the past two hours, a little longer than two hours. As for the poetic question -- and what happened over the past month, what happened over the past two months, what happened over the past year? I have to say that I'm joining you in asking that poetic question, even though you're asking those questions eventually to me, I have to say that you're knocking on an open door because I'd like to know, too. And I also have to say that we can talk about it here and we need to talk, because that's how we point to the importance of these questions. But we are certainly not going to be able to clarify these questions here in this debate, because we do not have mechanisms that would put us in a position to determine what happened today. But we're all interested in finding out what happened, no matter who made the wrong decision, when that wrong decision was made, what were the motives for making the wrong decision and all the other questions related to this poetic question. Again, I must say that this question is not only relevant from the aspect of the Vojvodina Development Bank, but I think it's interesting from the aspect of order in society in general. The second question that has arisen several times is the development fund issue. What we're establishing right now with this law, what we're talking about here, it only has to do with the fact that it's a permutated name of two words, nothing else. In that sense, if the Development Fund had invested its capital in the Development Bank in order to now save the remains of that active one and with it to launch the Development Fund which we are now establishing by this law. How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that we haven't been able to find a form for the ID of the AP Vojvodina Development Fund for years? How is it possible that when the Law on Banks and Financial Organizations was passed, it was not possible? How possible when the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia was passed, it was also not possible, and how it is possible now. Those are the same questions I think we should ask ourselves. In which nothing has essentially changed in this sphere. As for the system solutions of editing these issues and these relationships. Nothing's changed. As for the banking sector, unfortunately from the privatisation of the banking sector nothing was obtained, regardless of the general principle that 50% of the privatisation of the privatisation income belonged to the AP Vojvodina. But then, at one point, there was an interpretation, the banking sector is a specific sector, it's not about that law that applies to all other areas, but it applies to one other law and based on that, it doesn't belong to us. It's also one part of our reality. What concerns me at this point, ladies and gentlemen, is what we see as regards amendments that are both legitimate and legal. But I have to say that it's possible to talk about this bill being a fruit of the joint work of the two governments, and then we get into a situation where those who make up the Republic Government bomb a proposal that is the fruit of this joint work in a way that just turns a man from wonder. That this is basically undermining all the solutions, and man can't take the impression that this is partly about saving what can be saved, and in part it's about the political humiliation of what needs to be humiliated.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9107	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9108	Mr. President, Madam Minister, Mr. President-in-Office of the AP Vojvodina, on behalf of the NS Parliamentary Group, I will state the reasons why these laws are before us today and, of course, say that the NS MP group in the voting day will support this set of laws. First, I'd like to explain the amendments to the Energy Act. I believe that the objective of amending and supplementing this law is to ensure that the state takes more account of the energy potential it has. We have natural resources and we need to use them to build renewable energy sources, and therefore we think that the changes and additions of this law actually restores control of natural resources and regulates the obtaining of permits in a way that enables legal control of all interested persons. I would now briefly explain in a few points the lack of an existing and valid Energy Act. I believe that the basic problems that have arisen from the current Energy Act have been that all those who have received energy permits did not actually have any deadline or obligation to start any legal or practical actions in terms of obtaining a permit, prescribed by law in the area of construction, and thus not to enter into any realisation of the electrical energy project. Secondly, I believe that the existing law did not provide for any sanctions, i.e. the possibility for the ministry to withdraw an energy authorisation granted by law. So if the state has no control over the permit, it has no control over the natural resources either. Third, under the applicable Energy Authorisation Conditions Regulation, a legally optional statement by the Bank was acceptable that it would monitor the investor in the construction of an energy facility. These are the reasons why the NS parliamentary group considers these amendments and additions to the Energy Act necessary. It is a good thing that the law in its Article 4 regulates, or eliminates, all the mechanics, all the unserious investors and leaves room for the real interested persons to invest in this area. Then a new solution in the Regulation will be prescribed that there is a firm guarantee of a bank that will monitor the investor and also eliminate the possibility of transfering the consent to a third party as far as possible. I believe that it is very good from the point of view of legal certainty that Article 9 provides for energy permits and consent to be issued until the date of entry into force of these amendments and the addition of the law to remain in force, and that amendments and additions to this law give a deadline of 60 days for their holders to inform the competent ministry of the actions taken to initiate the procedure for obtaining a local, or building permit. In this regard, I would also like to state that, in the period from the previous two calendar years, the ministry, as the minister said, has issued 63 energy permits for the construction of the hydropower plant, one megawatt and more, as well as a number of consent for the construction of hydropower plants to one megawatt, but that the positive effect on the utilisation of hydroenergy potential is negligible precisely because the period of validity of these permits is unlimited. As for the agreement Serbia has with Italy, I would welcome this agreement and the minister said we have reached 155 euros per megawatt. Now, at a time when that price is hesitant and can vary on the market, I think it's a good price and this agreement will increase EPS three and a half times its income. As far as the proposal for a law on an AP Vojvodina Development Fund is concerned, it is quite true that, given the loss, which the Vojvodina Development Bank had, there was no other way, but to save the situation in this way. I think it was completely unreal to capitalise on the Vojvodine Development Bank in any way, given that there are 75% of non-refundable loans. You, Mr. Pastor, have said that we have opinions about this here. I, on behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, am also seeking the responsibility of all those who have brought the entire bank into this situation. As for the borrowing of our public enterprises, I would just like to repeat on this occasion what Vice-President Grubjesic said, that this is only the realization of the previous budget law and that this is something that has practically had to be voted on now. I believe that in 2013 it will continue to be stronger and stronger with financial consolidation and concrete measures will be taken when it comes to the restructuring of public enterprises. The public of Serbia is long awaited. So, once again, I would like to say that the New Serbia parliamentary group, will support this set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9109	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9110	Mr Pastor, there is no reasonable explanation for the merger of these seven points, so the Democratic Party and all MPs will discuss seven very important legal acts in a very short time. I don't know, I don't understand the urgency, although we also had a very bad practice with your urgency. When it comes to the Law on the Development Fund of the AP Vojvodina, it is actually one necessary communication between the two levels of government, which has compromised the result, as one development fund and this development fund will actually be the generator of the development policies of the AP Vojvodina. We consider it meaningful and good for the people of Vojvodina, and therefore we will support the Law on the Autonomous Province Development Fund. Unlike this law, it is unacceptable, Mrs. Mihajlovic, the way we adopt the Energy Act, amendments or additions to such an important system law, which is in line with the most important laws of each country. There was no public debate on changes and additions to this law. At least changes and additions to the system laws, public debates must go through which you will simply give the opportunity to professional associations. You must also give opportunities to NGOs, Serbia has a great and excellent NGO sector in the field of energy. You have to give them a chance to point out their objections. They have their remarks, but they have nowhere to say. It must, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that there is communication, that connection between those who propose and write laws, with those whose laws concern you. The public debate is an excellent opportunity for this communication to be established, even after the slightest changes and additions to such an important law. However, the abolition of the public debate is, as far as I can see, the tendency of this government. You will bring in one Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government, in which you wish to lift public debates on the laws that enter into the emergency procedure. You are removing one of the basic democratic principles and features of democratic authorities. I have a better idea. Stop democracy. Introduce dictatorship and under that umbrella you can do whatever you want, even if in a very important company in the area of energy "Collubari", you can also set up someone whose only reference is what is understood in the chamour. This law was passed by the government on Thursday. During the night, he came to the Assembly's agenda, and it will, or will, take effect one day after publication, with an explanation that energy resources and potentials are important every day. That's right. For energy resources, every day is important. What have you been doing for the past six months? You were chasing the energy mob. You daily told us about the energy tycoons, you were dealing with the failures and electricity collection in September, October, November and December, and in July you knew that the electricity would accumulate in February. At the time, renewable energy sources, energy resources were not important to you. We've made amendments, but we think it's most appropriate to withdraw this law from the agenda, to put it on a wider public debate. Call those to whom you get your energy licenses by this law. To be clear, I'm not against the withdrawal of energy licenses, but ask investors, why are these investments standing? Are they the culprits? Have they given up on investments or is it actually a narrow throat in some administration, an excessive administration, which is often a stumbling block in the realisation of investments in the field of energy? There was not enough power, Mrs. Mihajlovic, or in your ministry, there was neither in the previous ministry to reform that part of the energy sector, I mean the administration, which is often tightly throated, and therefore you transfer responsibility to investors. I think the most meaningful proposal is to withdraw, because even amend and supplement the Energy Act must be better planned, dealt with long-term energy. You know that the history of relations between countries that have serious quantities or large amounts of energy, around which colloktually world finance is spinning, with countries that these energy imports, you know what the history of these relationships was, or was such that the future has to be much more serious to plan. It's no secret that energy is at the top of diplomatic issues, international relations. It's no secret that energy made wars, made peace. Energy is still the basis of different conflicts today, a concept of happiness. In America, energy is a topic divided by Republicans and Democrats. It's a topic that actually, the deepest division is shown by energy, energy consumption and energy production, and you know and renewable energy sources. The European Union has provided its European energy project with four billion for 59 projects, which must support three basic principles – security, climate change, economic development. I'm telling you this and I'm pointing to what you already know, the importance of this topic, and in two days you've brought amendments and additions to such an important system law. Serbia, energy is highly dependent. This is a matter of security policy, energy is a topic of social policy, energy is a topic of economic policy, energy is a chance for Serbia's economic development. Green jobs, a chance for employment, which is why we joined the 2006 European Energy Community. And according to that contract, some of the obligations that you are in violation of these changes and additions. The country's energy policy is adopted in agreement with both the European Commission and the European Energy Community. You haven't shown us that you have any opinion. You're not, although you're waving some papers, you haven't shown us that you have positive comments from any of the European Commission's bodies or offices. It's very important, but I don't think you can get any positive comments on the law or amendments to the law, which contain retroactiveness. You're actually going to introduce new rules with this law for people who have already invested their money. It's not a system, it's an ad hoc policy that any new government can change. That's no way to build a system. That's why we can't support a law like this. The new government – new rules, new laws, abolish those old ones, and investors in wonder and transfer responsibility to them. It's not a system. That's why you won't get support. Please withdraw this proposal. We can have a public debate together. You'll have partners in us for a serious public debate, to build an energy system together, but in this way you can't get support for changes and additions to one of these laws. Later we will talk much more concretely about this law, but now the message – we cannot support this law because of the way you bring these amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9111	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9112	I didn't expect you to support this law at all because everything you left in the energy sector while you ran the government over the past years is in favour of you not being really in order and working, and that's quite clear. Regarding this public debate, to repeat, not because of you, because you know, because I said it and you were in the O.R., but because of the citizens of Serbia on 10 December 2012, there was a public debate in the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and right away to tell you one more thing, all that was done in this ministry in the previous four months was public debate, even though it was not our obligation under the law. Here I also mention some new regulations that were also under discussion, also mentioning the Energy Efficiency Act which is still under discussion and which is detailed and large law. So, everything this ministry does, not only is it transparent and transparent, I believe that it can and can be disturbed, because now it's seen what was done, or what wasn't done, and now it's seen what could be done. When you talk about system law and changing overnight, I can't agree with that, because as I mentioned earlier, this is not a change of system within the law, but a fill-in of certain legal gaps. It's in our best interest that investors come here and work and build. Obviously, because of the legal gaps that existed in the law, unfortunately, these investors had licenses, and they didn't work, and there was a lot that was going on, that we weren't talking about it anymore. We're trying to limit it this way, obligate the investor, make sure that when he gets permission or consent he has to do something in that direction. On the other hand, the Ministry of Energy will help any investor who gets an energy permit or consent to get to other permits as soon as possible, because this is the only way to make the most of this potential here from more recent sources, and as you mentioned, energy is so important that we become an energy safe country. We are now a net energy importer only in 36% compared to the energy required. When you mention these various mafias, yes, and as it works, it's a parallel process, we didn't just deal with it, because that's what it was, but we were dealing with how to change and fill those gaps, or to prevent anyone from using or slowing down our energy policy and development that we want, and parallel to that, of course, that whoever didn't do his job, deliberately or accidentally or whoever didn't want to do certain things, must have consequences for it. Furthermore, when you mentioned the European Commission and that these amendments and amendments to the laws do not have the opinion of the European Commission, I repeat again, it is not necessary for the European Commission to take the view of the European Commission's Office for European Integration, which the ministry has received as a positive opinion on these amendments and additions and not just the opinion of the Office and other ministries, so it could not be found in the Government and could not be adopted that there is no positive opinion from the Office for European Integration. It's a procedure. That opinion exists. Do you really think that anything in this ministry that has been committed and as a member of the energy community of the Southeast European countries is being fulfilled and is being prepared to comply with certain directives, that we will do anything, which will shorten our path? You're wrong. If you've seen what we've committed ourselves to, maybe two or three weeks ago in Budva, also related to the directives, then it's clear to you that our path here is completely clear. We are in the interest of respecting EU energy directives, because it is also one way to be a little faster in what is called energy policy realisation, so I have to ask you to try to talk only about facts, and should I say five times that there has been a public debate, what needs to be done, to prove it? If you're going to ask the same thing five times, so on December 10, 2012, with what right do you say there are no public hearings of all the laws, regulations, regulations that the ministry does? You're wrong, because it's all about public debate, because, among other things, all the rules are on that famous website. Today, a regulation is put in place regarding electricity. I can accept some things that you think we may have done too quickly or slowly, but that there is no public debate, I can't accept it. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9113	Replica, Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9114	It is not, Mrs. Mihajlovic, a serious public debate when you call on her the ones you want. I wasn't saying there wasn't a public debate, there was no serious public debate. Secondly, who ran the energy system, or from the Ministry of Energy in the last term, you say they did a bad job. They worked so badly, you took them as coalition partners. You're saying it's not possible to pass a law without the consent of the European Commission National Bank. You cut Serbia's credit rating, you returned ten days to parliament, because you received some criticism from the European Commission, because the previous law, you came to parliament with the previous law, without the consent of the European Commission, is possible and therefore I express certain doubts. You say you have no obligation to hold public debates, because these are changes and additions, one small part of the energy sector and energy laws, and that's even a small part of the car, but it's very important and it has to be taken care of. This is a very important part of the energy sector, energy laws and a public debate is important, because there are relevant, reference, non-governmental organisations that want to point out to you. That's why you need to hold public hearings, but not in a way to call whoever you want. You didn't point out, strangely enough, that the rules will change for those investors who have already invested their resources, that's a bad message to investors, that's not a system, that's ad hoc policy, and that's why we're not going to support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9115	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9116	Only a small addition, public debates were held, held under those regulations or rules for which there is no obligation to adhere. In addition to the relevant institutions that you mention, we are members of some parts of the draft law amending the Energy Act, working with the Energy Union. Therefore, do not say things you do not know, but consult them first, inform yourself, because in this way you simply deceive the public. You and I can talk privately and we can talk to each other whatever we want, but the public of Serbia needs to know that what you just said is not true. Therefore, public debates and everything the Ministry of Energy is doing is transparent and clear. There was a public debate about this law. All those involved in energy were invited to a public debate, and we also worked with the Serbian Energy Union, which is the relevant institution, I repeat.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9117	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9118	Only Rules of Procedure, Rule 107. Mr. President, please, it is possible that we are tired and nervous, the representatives of the government should not allow ourselves, and you should allow them to address MPs with a raised tone of voice like this, deceive, not to say, you lie to the people, you have no idea, you don't know what you're saying, let's cross the arguments, if we have them, and not to use such qualifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9119	I suppose you're right about everyone being a little tired, and I agree that I should ask all the participants in the debate that we still use the terms that are appropriate and ask everyone to stick to it, so that this debate, as it has so far, will run in accordance with the agenda and thank you all for respecting it. Replica, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9120	I may, unlike you, respect what you know and have certain knowledge in this area, but I do not allow you to retain the right to know everything and that no one else knows. You have no right to do this, you have no answer to the question whether investors who have already invested their resources, their money in the energy sector are changing the rules, whether they're keeping one or the other, are you changing the rules in half the investment? You change the rules, you don't build a system, you reject investors, and that's why this law is bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9121	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9122	Mr. Nikolic, you have not read the law carefully, nor the explanation. I'm so sorry about that because we're holding everyone else back right now, but I'm going to explain it one more time. Therefore, those who have invested and have the permission to continue according to these permits, but also have no right to when three, or three, plus one year, do not finish what was planned to end, have no more rights that they had under the previous law, or under the existing law, to extend, to seek extension without doing anything. So I answered your question. If you think we should renew their license without them doing anything for three years, then I wouldn't say we're pushing investors, but I'd say you're trying to drive investors away. I guess we all have a common goal here, which is for the investor to be. They must have certain obligations. So far, according to the Energy Act, they have had no obligation and as soon as they get an unlimited agreement, under the existing law, it was unlimited, or, let's say, energy license for three years, after three years, they don't have to do anything, give the energy license again, get that energy license for three years, and the result is that Serbia has 19 small hydropower plants, and 198 consent, 63 energy permits. You'll agree that's not right. That's what's changing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9123	The word is Mr. Nikolic, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9124	These are serious charges against the former minister, so we expect to hear some answers from him. You did say everything you said might be bad, but then we can get answers from the former minister sitting here. How long does it take to get permission to build a mini power plant? How long does it take? How long does it take to build a wind farm? There's a problem, Madam Minister. There's a system problem, an administration you don't have the strength to reform. The moment you come with such a law, you'll get support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9125	The word is Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9126	I won't answer anymore, but just one thing. To remind you, the headquarters of the previous government was DS. This means that as the SNS is now the government headquarters, so we are very responsible for what we are doing, so you were also the headquarters of the previous government and you are very responsible for all those decisions that the government has made or has not made. When you talk about administration, I agree, one of the first things that the Ministry of Energy has started is that instead of two years, how long it takes someone to deal with just using the renewable energy sources and the 27 various permits they need to get from ministries, public enterprises, local self-government, etc., we try to reduce it to five to seven. That's what we're gonna do anyway. Now I'm announcing it to you, although I announced it two, three months ago, which is also known, so I agree that the administration is a serious problem, but it didn't make this government and it didn't make this ministry, but the previous and previous governments, where you're just headquarters, I remind you once again, were you as DS. We will correct it and it will look completely different and hopefully, fortunately for all those who want to invest in Serbia's energy sector, it will no longer happen that there are no investments in energy, and we all know that there is potential. Someone's responsible for that. That's not what the SNS is responsible for. That's what whoever was headquarters in the previous government is responsible for, and that's you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9127	Mr. Stefanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9128	Thank you, Minister, so much for teaching about headquarters. So, that we no longer waste much time of your little headquarters attacking, but that is nice for everything Mr. Dinkic does, for everything Mr. Dacic does, for all that these little headquarters of yours do, that we speak nicely to you. It's just, you have one problem. Your MPs here keep explaining in this room that it's not the same thing when you tell the SNS and the others who make up this power, and we kill ourselves here by explaining that you, gentlemen, are all ours. Thank you for explaining now, so that we know who the headquarters is for everything that's wrong in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9129	Right on the line, Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9130	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, everything and everything I've listened to. Again, we return to some stories that have been told and have been proven several times, that they are not based on facts and that there are certain grounds. I even heard that the NBS Serbia Law dropped the credit rating, and the credit rating fell due to the debt done by the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Mirko Cvetkovic. Now we're discussing investors and we're discussing licenses, so I'm interested in whether behind those investors, for example, former NIS Director Mr. Dimitria Vukcevic stands, so I'm also interested in whether behind those investors, who you're so defending, former Energy Minister Goran Novakovic stands? I'm interested in whether the former Energy Minister and former governor of the National Bank are behind these investors, or whether her sister is behind Mrs. Kori Udovicki? Who are you defending? Foreign colleagues? The licenses they got based on political belongings and monopolies? Nothing more. You're surprised how you've issued so many permits, and nothing's been done. Well, he trades with licenses and companies and whatever you want. Gentlemen of the DS, as you led, you showed. I've told you many times that you've had your chance, and you haven't taken advantage of it. Make sure we don't miss ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9131	Mr. Stefanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9132	I'm really gonna try it for a while. As far as I know, Gazprom bought what you're talking about from Novakovic and those wind parks. You can immediately discuss this problem with a Russian partner in Sochi or Moscow. As for this other thing you said, I gave one political stance, Mr. Arsic, I just don't see that yellow seal you mention about these people. I kind of don't see him. If the authorities see him about a particular party, we understand you, but you and I understand each other well. If someone has made a mistake or committed a crime, God forbid, you have a Deputy Prime Minister who will undoubtedly investigate it. Try not to walk along that thin line that you often approach, try one of the largest opposition parties, which got less than 1% in the election, remember that, don't look us in the eye and try to criminalize us. I've asked you several times. It's a very awkward subject. The headquarters of this government were the headquarters of some governments in the '90s. Let's not start pulling out books of old now, see what's been destroyed these years, Mr. Arsic. Don't say that. It's not good for citizens. They don't have any of that. They're no use. Let's try to make this better. That's all we had in mind. It's nothing more than that. We are pleased that the Minister here, after certain interventions, has also performed highly constructively. So what SNS has learned, you can see it can. You can see it can be nice, civilized, European. Thank you for realizing that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9133	National MP Veroljub Arsic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9134	It's all well spoken and at peaceable tone, but I didn't get answers from who was behind those investors. If those are the ministers you voted for, if those are the governors you voted for, then I guess you know each other. That's the point. If you want to defend someone, we don't mind. Investors? Let's defend the investor, but let's see what they've really invested, what they are, and who else is behind those investors whose eyes no one has seen. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9135	The word is made by the People's Messenger Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9136	Thank you. I will allow myself to speak only of tonight's draft law on the AP Vojvodina Development Fund. What I would say at the outset is that exactly the proposal for this law indicates that Mladjan Dinkic and the URS were right when they spoke of the futility of the capitalisation of the Vojvodina Development Bank. If the purpose of establishing the fund is to develop the entire Vojvodina evenly, every village, every city, and not just Novi Sad, there is no reason not to support the bill sent by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. In Article 4, that is defined. What I would like to commend is precisely defining the development of agriculture. Regardless of the fact that Vojvodina has its own Agricultural Development Fund, as far as I'm aware, he's doing well. I think it's good to see what it is that represents the developmental branch of the Vojvodina. What it represents is some concern that the government of the province can't be sure that there is this intention of even development. Believe me, it's very difficult to see that one part of the Vojvodina shines, and on the other side there are villages without system-solved water supply, no sewage network, no paths and roads, that there are municipalities that don't even have project-technical documentation to equip industrial zones, let alone industrial zones. I think my concern about the Vojvodina, which once represented the backdrop of the state's development, is warranted, and today we no longer have a picture of it. It is alarming that Vojvodina last year had lower GDP per capita than the republican average. The government of Vojvodina has not done anything to improve the situation of the province. I think problems need to be solved in the field, to be solved in conversation, in a real life, not in media performances. I really hope that the draft law on the AP Vojvodina Development Fund is not another marketing trick of the province's government and that no one will deal with the creation of parallel reality in Vojvodina and Serbia anymore, because the leadership of the country and the province, or one region, is not marketing. It is a clear indication that there was no dialogue in the previous period, because while one party, or DS and its staff, had absolute authority in both the province and the republic, this was not the case, and this is exactly the proposal for this law and the previous proposals discussed in this House are one form of testimony on the dialogue conducted in the institutions. Whether someone admits it or not, this government, Minister Mladjan Dinkic, are the ones who have established dialogue to address certain problems and support to overcome certain situations at the province level. I have a special desire and a need to once again commend the act of conducting dialogue in institutions, because it is precisely one of the basic ways to restore trust in them. The system is something to be built, and institutions are the basic levers of a system in serious states. What should certainly be commended is the effort that led to an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the support of the NBS for a common step that is optimal for depositors and all bank clients, what is most important, the cheapest for the citizens of Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina, and is also a prerequisite for the stability of the financial market. Under the agreement reached, the "Vojvodine Development Bank" assets and passports will be transferred to that bank that offers the best conditions, with nearly 110m euros secured and about 100m unsecured deposits, or around 80,000 depositors. It is precise that five-year bonds are being issued for unsecured deposits, which are not covered by the bank's quality activity of around 70m euros, of which the AP Vojvodina will issue 78.11%, and the Republic of Serbia is the remaining 21.89%, and this is exactly the founding role mentioned in the draft of this law. Also, a part of the activity will be transferred to the development fund, primarily a credit portfolio of legal entities and permanent assets of the Vojvodina Development Bank. Of course, I can't help but remind myself that the Vojvodina Development Bank came from Metals Bank, and the first visible dubiosis was in mid-2009, when the NBS introduced a forced administration into the said bank. In addition to a suspicious past, the province government decided to save the bank and, based on recapitalisation, became the owner of about 62% of the capital. A total of about 13 billion dinars have been pumped into it since May 2010, when it was renamed developmental. Prior to agreeing with the Republic, it was announced that the government of the AP Vojvodina would issue a new 15 billion dinars, but was opposed by the NBS, the finance ministry and the government itself. When we talk about the bill itself, we have submitted a few amendments, but with a desire to improve and improve the text of the proposed law. We'll agree, it's one of the institutional mechanisms when discussing a bill. We've submitted the amendment, for example. to Article 5, which says – the development fund may have its own organisational units. With this amendment, we propose that the agreement to set up an AP Vojvodina Development Fund should determine the number of organisational units. I don't see anything controversial in that amendment. Also, in Article 8, which adds a new position, for the sake of more precise regulation of the content of the annual work programme of the development fund, as well as the time for its submission. The amendment says it should be done by 15 December of next year. For example, in Article 14, a report shall be submitted at least once a year, with the possibility that the report and supervision should be carried out more frequently on a proposal or request from one of the founders. I think we'll have a chance to discuss the amendments during the debate in detail. They repeat once again, if this bill really needs to lead to even regional development, we have no reason not to support it, because I believe that it is not the same life in small border municipalities that are losing more than 10%, 15% of the population from a list cycle to a list cycle. I believe there will also be hearing that perhaps for the most underdeveloped residents of the most underdeveloped environments may be the most favourable credit conditions, less interest. This is something to think about at the province level, in the Assembly, the supervisory body, etc., will talk about because there are mechanisms proposed in this law. Of course, I'll do it again. It is good to realize that agriculture is essentially one of the branches that is important in Vojvodina. When it is introduced into this fund, although there is already a fund that works well, and really thinking and believing that this will lead to a balanced regional development, that all my fellow citizens and fellow citizens in Vojvodina will one day have equipped industrial zones so that investors can come, negotiate, talk and start doing something, that all my fellow citizens will have an adequate supply of water and sewerage network and that we will really become again what we used to be, not just in the story, but that particular development engine, that one day all Serbian citizens will have an opportunity for something different, better, or equal opportunities. I stress that we will support this law in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9137	Mr. Pastor, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm ashamed to have to react, but I have to react because you've been put in a situation where you've had to say everything you've said. As you passed the vote for the circuit assembly over the past 12 years, you were part of the same parliamentary majority of the executive authority that you are now attacking. I think it's totally rude to say all those sentences that you've said here, at least because they're not true, or at least they're of general character. That's why I think they're cobwebs. I don't think it's possible to refer to the province government as an irresponsible government in this debate. She may be irresponsible in the past four months, but you've been a member of these irresponsible governments for the past 12 years, when we've worked together on water projects and industrial zone projects and all other things. As for the amendments, I said, and now I want to repeat, these amendments are completely legitimate, but if we have an agreement between the two governments, if the finance minister participates in that agreement, if the agreement is created by texting a proposal that goes to the Assembly, as in front of the authorised proposing who comes here, I think it is terribly difficult for the parliamentary majority to be fully legitimate, but the proposal is bombarded with amendments. It creates a very difficult situation, and I have to say it. There's no problem with an amendment that talks about where an organization unit of the Development Fund can be. There are other things that are much more important, which are the essence of the solution, which in this situation create the situation of the almost act. For that reason, I think this is incorrect. I say again, it is legitimate and I am absolutely certain that these amendments will probably be supported by the parliamentary majority here and thus become an integral part of the future law. In this way, the agreement reached between the two governments is fundamentally changed, and that is the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9139	Replica, Mrs. Jelena Travar Miljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9140	Thank you. I don't think I said anywhere in my speech that the provincial government is irresponsible. Also, as it is a democratic act to talk within institutions, I think it is democratic to submit amendments. I don't think anyone here makes me talk or expose or anyone said what I should write in the amendments I've submitted. If we are talking about a democratisation of society, I do not see what is controversial because it is a normal act here that MPs of the ruling majority also submit amendments to the laws that come from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't see why this law would be an exception. In addition, as far as I know, these amendments will be declared by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, so that there will be opportunities for MPs to discuss the subject. Who's in the province government for how long, I wouldn't want to bid tonight. I will point out once again, if this bill will lead to even regional development, we have no reason not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9141	Mr. Pastor, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9142	Thank you very much. I must say again that I do not dispute at all that every MP has the right to initiate an amendment to any legislative proposal. I just find it somewhat surprising that the party or the parliamentary group, whose party president was the main creator of this law, together with us was a participant in the agreement, is investing eight amendments that he wants to correct the effect of his own president. I think it's a little problematic, but it's not a problem for me, it's generally a problem. As to whether or not you said the province government was irresponsible, please check it out, on several occasions you did it in your first address. I don't think that's right. As for ambitions related to even regional development, I would love to, and we would all love to. I am this law, the only one he will certainly not succeed in doing so, but surely he can be one of the links in this effort and from that aspect I am pleased that you will accept, or support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9143	The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9144	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina, today we have faced amendments to the Energy Act. What I will briefly say about this law, or about the changes and additions that are ahead of us, is that energy is one of the more significant resources and one of the more expensive resources Serbia currently has. It is one of the resources that can certainly contribute to Serbia's taking this crisis easier and coming out faster and more successfully. Energy is something we base significant exports on. It, above all, needs to enable and save in production and consumption savings, contribute to the conservation of the environment and open the possibility of exports, to make investment in this area more serious, to do something that is prestigious in the field of investment and interest in investing in Serbia. We've heard from Madam Minister that we've already reached arrangements that we're going to be carrying out electricity as one of the resources at the moment. It is certainly expected to invest in other renewable energy sources such as wind, sun and all that Serbia is able to potential, except water. Serbia is currently a country that cannot think about energy, primarily energy savings, and then energy production. Electricity consumption is increasing from year to year, collecting and falling within a very expensive investment for each citizen of Serbia. A very expensive product that spends. Now another power collection has been announced simply because it is part of our daily life. Serbia, which has such a climate that over six months of normal and average, we have a heated season, Serbia that has not yet solved the issue of isolation in its apartment, must seriously consider and address the issue of electricity production. These nine members who are before us who are changing this law make them better. We recognize that, and in the voting day, we will support it because we have seen that the way into investment in electricity, or in production, giving consent, will make it shorter, faster and more efficient, and the state will have greater control, because energy resources should never be out of control of the state. It's something that every serious state edits to the end and monitors to the end. That's what we're greeting right now. We consider these amendments and additions to the law certainly to be better. Practice will soon show. We believe that some changes and additions of this same law may be made in due time, but for the time being, the most important things are being overcome, resolved, and Serbia will soon have a modern exploitation of electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9145	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9146	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Government and the Honorable Representatives of the District Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a very short time for the second time we are discussing a legislative proposal stemming from the District Assembly, but while that first law was passed, it was originally adopted after the vote of the assembly majority, so it was a quick-to-go vote, and it is the final conclusion that the law was not passed, contrary to Article 126. Rules of Procedure. The new draft law from the District Assembly has one tendency to become also problematic and scandalous. I think it's the most appropriate term I can use when I'm talking about the bill proposals coming from the province of Vojvodina, because obviously this law will be passed, but it won't be in the form in which it was handed over. This law is, in fact, the result of an agreement between the District and the Republic Government. If it is the result of one agreement, I guess those who agreed and agreed on what they wanted with this law, so it's really strange that, in the meantime, the government changed its mind, so they handed over two amendments, so some MPs of the ruling coalition figured out to make some amendments. All this says and points to one fact that whenever there is talk here about the laws coming from the District Assembly, in fact, they are not the subject on the agenda of these laws, but the topic of Serbia's relationship with Vojvodina, the relationship of the Republic to the province, is the central government's relationship to the decentralisation of the state. When you look at what the result of all these relationships is, the result cannot be called positive. When we talked about the fact that this Parliament's agenda should also include proposals for laws coming from the province of Vojvodina, we did not mean this kind of Parliament's relationship, the attitude of the Serbian Parliament, or the Government towards initiatives coming from the province. There is some irony in the fact that today is debated unitedly on this draft law on the AP Vojvodina Development Fund and on four guarantees for loans to companies, i.e. public enterprises. What does that irony consist of? It consists, in fact, of this explanation given in this draft law on the AP Vojvodina Development Fund, where it is said that this law has the ambition to protect and preserve the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. If you're going to preserve the stability of this country's financial system with this law, I don't know what you're going to do with these guarantees. When it came to "Development Bank", it was a question of whether capitalisation worth 150m euros or not should be done and how will it be done? The province government gave an argument that suggested that it could possibly be realised. Look, in 2013, according to the current state of public debt, we have commitments to creditors based on interest per day on two million euros. If we add that up with days, it takes you two months, more specifically, two and a half months, to reach a height of 150m euros, how much money was proposed to capitalise this "Vojvodine Development Bank". It was such a big cry about whether or not Vojvodina can do it -- it can't, why can't, and my God, we need to protect the financial system and the financial stability of the Serbian state. Believe me, if we have this kind of loan obligation, as I have already mentioned, we are really in big trouble, and something suggests some kind of bankruptcy. Now let's get to these guarantees. It's very interesting that these guarantees, in fact, represent one obligation that this state takes on itself, in case these loans don't come back to the lenders, then the state itself does. What's the state doing? The state provides a guarantee for a 200m-euro "Serbigas", which gives Galenici 15m euros, gives JAT 10m euros. These are public enterprises, i.e. companies which have so far shown to which extent they cannot, they do not know, will not or are not misexploiting the funds they receive from certain sources guaranteed by this State. They proved to be bad hosts, proved to be bad businessmen, and nevertheless, instead of checking how money has been spent so far, only "Srbigas" owes, let's say, about a billion euros and will soon turn it into a public debt, new loans and states are being taken without a problem, guaranteed. You know how, I'm always against illusions, I'm always against illusions, I'm against sowing illusions. And what it is, but an illusion, when we are here discussing laws stemming from the District Assembly, and in fact, there is no political will at all to be seriously treated and watched and the issue of the relationship between the province and the Republic, when it comes to the initiatives of the Regional Assembly. Also, it also applies to these guarantees. Believe it or not, each of these draft laws has one member who speaks of the right to regress the State, if he pays off some loan-based loan-based liabilities, and all based on the guarantee given for those loans. That's for this loan at Galenika's article 7. This is the credit for the South Stream, for the implementation of the South Stream project "Srbigasu" Article 5. That's your 7th credit for "Serbiagas." This is article 4 for JAT. It says here that the state can point out a regressive claim. I guess all the laws relating to the state guarantee, that the loans would come back even when the state paid off those loans. All of these laws had this member who referred to what the state should do if it paid someone else's debt, even if it was a public enterprise, even if it was a pet, even if it was a company that it created. So it's an illusion that we're discussing guarantees today. We're not discussing anything, we're just everyone in our corner pointing to it -- do we need these guarantees, don't we need those guarantees? I'm telling you, we don't need those guarantees. They don't have to, and let's see what happens if these public enterprises aren't so conscious, safe and able to repay those loans. Then let's see what all these powerful managers do and let's see what the state does to actually save itself from bankruptcy. Therefore, the state will not be saved by adopting the Law on the Development Fund of the AP Vojvodina, thus laying down all these agreements which are the fruit of certain pressures on the province's government to conclude agreements and to create, instead of the Development Bank, a development fund, probably with a certain goal and ambition that we do not see and can read anything in the light of this bill. So, of course we won't vote for these bill proposals. We believe that these proposals are a law of extreme damage to the Republic of Serbia's budget, especially the Vojvodina Development Fund, which is of exceptional damage to the very relations between the Republic and the province. I can't help feeling that it's just the fruit of certain pressures and harangs that have been driven over the past month. I remember very well how the law that was on the agenda of this assembly was changed, which is to resolve all the losses of Agrobanka, and suddenly "Vojvodine Development Banka" appeared in that story.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9147	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, representatives of the circuit assembly, I am really glad that the Law on the Vojvodina Development Fund is on the agenda. He is the result of the agreement between the republic and the province government on solving the problems that were in the "Vojvodina Development Bank". During the debate on the Law on the acquisition of assets of certain banks, the finance minister spoke about the situation and the dubiosis in the Development Bank and that the problem should be addressed in an adequate manner. It's a good thing the government in the province, or the province government, finally stopped defending something that is indefensible, which is the "Vojvodine Development Bank". It has so far given 150m euros for capitalisation. There is a decision by the province's assembly on recapitalisation for another 150m euros, which is completely pointless. In earlier discussions, I said that money could have been used in a much better and better way. The debate on the law said it was an incursion into the country's legal system. It looked like a recapitalisation to me, but it's crazy to give that kind of money to capitalize on something that doesn't have a future. Vojvodina really needs the Development Fund and the URS will support it, and it doesn't need a Vojvodina bank that has 75% of the non-refundable claims. The formation of the Vojvodina Development Fund should certainly not amnesty with the responsibility of those responsible for what happened at the Vojvodina Development Bank. In 2009, when "Metals Bank" was taken over by the head of the province's government, we who were in the province's Assembly heard that it would be a momentum of development, encourage employment, that it would revive economic activities, that its resources would be able to use local self-government for its own development. Unfortunately, the story left only debts and money dropped by the people of Vojvodina, which could have been used to develop poor municipalities that are very large in Vojvodina. There's been a lot of talk here, and I wouldn't say that much. Now on the agenda we have the formation of the Vojvodina Development Fund. The URS will support the establishment of the Vojvodina Development Fund, which, according to what it says in the law, should encourage the development of the economy, agriculture, entrepreneurship and what is very important to us – more balanced regional development in Vojvodina. We absolutely support it. He is the Vojvodina needed, because unfortunately GDP in Vojvodina is less than the republican average. The duchess is unbalanced. There are great differences in the development of municipalities, and everyone has to notice that. To improve this law, we have submitted a series of amendments. I am very sorry that the President of the District Assembly has come out and is not following this debate. I'm really upset by his remarks, I just advertised the Rules of Procedure, but the chairman hasn't seen it, it doesn't matter. The basic right of every MP is to submit amendments to the law. We have made amendments to improve the law and I don't see any reason to be angry with the MPs because they submit an amendment or to talk about how someone told us what to say. One amendment provided for a clear definition of the purpose, height, condition and method of use of the Fund's funds, conditions, criteria and procedures for granting credit. Why did we propose this? I believe that public and transparency are very important in the work of the Fund. We need to know clearly where the money will go, because we had a case at Vojvodina Development Bank that we don't know who got the loans, in which way and why there's 75% of those uncharging loans. The other amendments provided for the possibility, i.e. we asked for a regular report on business to be delivered and to create an opportunity to monitor one of the founders more frequently, because of the public and transparency of spending money. We had, like, a negative experience with the Capital Investment Fund. I've emphasized that a few times. For four years in the District Assembly, we considered only one report from the Capital Investment Fund. I heard there was a second report three years later, but I don't think that's right. We had losses in that fund for capital investment and then it happened that local self-government from their budgets had to give funds and cover those debts. With one amendment, we proposed that the number of organisational units be determined by a contract for the establishment of an AP Vojvodina Development Fund. We believe that the availability of this fund is very important for the citizens, especially those of undeveloped municipalities. It should also help citizens and local self-government to fill out forms faster, better and better quality, to apply and reach these funds. However, we do not want, on the other hand, to turn this into some new employment and build up administration. Once again, I would like to underline that it is good that a solution has been found for Vojvodina Development Bank and that dialogue is being conducted in institutions. I hope that the Fund will be in the position of developing the Vojvodina, not another marketing trick of the Regional Government or of being in the service of politics. There's something I'd like to say about the Energy Act, or about amendments to the Energy Act. I support the proposed changes and order should be introduced when it comes to energy permits. Serbia has great potential for energy development and this is our chance to employ a large number of people in the sector, on the one hand, while on the other hand being energy independent. Unfortunately, that has not been the case so far, as the minister said, and I know from field experience that many permits have been issued, and very little has been realised. These changes literally get in the way and support serious investors, while removing so-called. Mixers. I've been thinking about whether or not to discuss this agenda point at all, but since I come from Covin, from a place that has great energy potential, the municipality is small, undeveloped, and we look at what's planned in the Kovin municipality as being blinded by the sun. I am very pleased that the Ministry of Energy has published priority projects on its site. There is a construction of a thermal power plant and a mine called Kovin. On the other hand, our municipality has great potential for wind park development. There's a lot of work done in that field and it's not done. The story began five years ago, even in the pre-election campaign, one, the other, the third, the story ended somewhere, as far as paperwork and urban conditions are concerned. We sincerely hope that at least some part of our community's potential will be used and that you will help us. That's why I volunteered for the discussion both personally and on behalf of my fellow citizens, I support the amendments to this law, because I believe that it will bring my city a better chance of development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9149	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Ruzica Igic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9150	I am pleased that Mr. Pastor is already here in the Republic Parliament on several occasions and that he wishes to hear what we MPs have to say to him. As an MP coming from Novi Sad, I will speak first of all about this subject that interests all of us who come from Vojvodina. However, I think that, besides Mr. Pastor or at least for him, it was far more efficient and meaningful for us to come here as Prime Minister, Mr. Bojan Pajtic, who is actually a member of the Management Board of the Development Fund, a member of the Management Board of the Capital Investments Fund, etc. and who knows very well everything that's going on in these funds, so I think it would be more meaningful if he were here. I don't think even Mr. Pastor and Mr. Pajtic are in the same wavelength. What Mr. Pastor said is completely different from what Mr. Pajtic said with representatives of the Serbian government. However, we have before us the Law on the Development Fund of the AP Vojvodina, which was directed to us by the Parliament of the AP and to adopt it by an urgent procedure. Before I say anything at all about the Development Fund itself, I want to remind you of some things. When "Metals Bank" was bought for 3.5 million dinars in June 2009, the price of a Metals Bank stock was 5,500 dinars. On this day, the price of a Metals Bank action is 447 dinars. So much for that failed Metals Bank you see doing business at the time there was a Development Bank. Not only that, three years from now, since the Vojvodina Development Bank, we've had a few recapitalisations, which is what all the MPs who were talking about here were talking about in general the Development Fund. In three years' time, the price of the stock has fallen very much, and so much so that even the numerous recapitalisations that had been carried out could not help her. As for one of the capitalisations took place two years ago, a year and a half after the acquisition of the Development Bank. The capitalisation was about two billion, the second in March 2012 – 4.28 billion, the third in November 2012 – about 6.5 billion. So more than 13 billion dinars were invested in capitalization. This wasn't enough either. The Vojvodina Assembly decided two months ago that this bank was being recapitalised with 15 billion dinars. Since we heard from the president of the province's government Bojan Pajtic then that the capitalisation of the most brilliant solution there is and that the "Vojvodine Development Bank" will not be shut down, the DSS wonders what happened in the meantime and changed that the Vojvodina Assembly is now in an urgent process initiating the adoption of the Development Fund Act and that it effectively abolishs the "Development Bank"? Is there a reason to know that the Development Bank has 75% of uncharging loans that are still unknown to who they were assigned and under what conditions, or is it something else? The draft law on the Vojvodina Development Fund, which abolishs the Development Bank, is a final act in the farce that began 10 months ago, when the Vojvodina Assembly made a decision that then was taken by the Development Bank, and now we have a situation to set up a new fund and to abolish the "Development Bank". The Democratic Party of Serbia then noted that it was a desperate attempt by the authorities to save a bank that operates politically rather than according to the commercial principle, while the province's authorities heard that this way "Development Bank" would become an engine for the development of Vojvodina. As an example, I'd say a few things about funds. Only the fund that existed, the Vojvodina Development Fund, really, as Mr. Pastor said, has worked for 10 years, and for those 10 years, he has had about 50 competitions and approved about 5,000 and some loans. The 5,000 and 300 and some loans amounted to, the total amount is more than 250m euros, the fund invested in 10 years. He was tasked with investing them in agriculture, economy, employment, development, some activities where people would be employed. There's a report on this fund's website in 10 years from 13 pages of A4 format. How are money allocated and what is it that actually gets into the eyes of everything when we look at it? According to this report, even about 34% of loans were placed in the south-back district. In Banat in two counties, in the North-Banatian and Central-Banatian, a total of less loans than was invested only in the town of Novi Sad. The town of Novi Sad has received around 19% of total paid loans, and two counties in Banat have received less than that. Is that regional development that is even? Is that how the Regional Development Fund was supposed to work? Here is the question – is it the New Sad Development Fund or the Vojvodina Development Fund? This clearly means that it shows how far regional development is, in fact, not taking care of the development of poorer areas. As far as investment is concerned from this fund, 10% went to trade, a non-production trade. In fact, we don't have the employment of new people, and that's a bad example of the Development Fund. There's only one example I want to point out again to the same fund that's listed here. A large investment announced, the opening of a plant for the production of unique ceramic sheets. This drive was first opened in late 2008 by the Vice-President of the Executive Council of the AP, Ivana Dulic Markovic, and in September 2009, the same drive was opened by Bojan Pajtic, twice the same drive. The Fund for Development and the Secretariat for Science and Technological Development of 25 million has received funding. The total investment was 80 million. As far as I'm concerned, that drive is no longer operational. He's in bankruptcy. Only a year after that, that drive doesn't work. If this is how we're going to work with the development fund that's forming, we better not work and we better think about how we're going to work. And this fund, as well as the Capital Investment Fund, as well as some secretaries of the government of the AP Vojvodina, had as their basis a task, as I said strengthening agriculture, strengthening economy, employment. To realise these objectives through various projects has been spent. The Development Fund, as I said before, 250 million dinars. The Capital Investment Fund is around 600m dinars, the 90m-euro Secretariat and budget subsidies of around 25m euros. A total of about a billion euros were spent on various funds for such things, and unemployment in Vojvodina was never less, the situation was getting worse and worse. These are the money that our province's government had. I'd go back to this part that we'll probably adopt these days, and it's about the Development Fund. What is it that this bill brings us? It brings us obligations to our savings and depositors. He needs to take over some of the interested business banks. In return, the selected business bank will take the "Vojvodine Development Bank" foreign exchanges from the mandatory reserve, will turn back to itself the best money in category A, some of the pretty and well-placed buildings, and if that is not enough, the state and the province will pay for the rest by issuing bonds, and the other part will remain in the future Vojvodina Development Fund, as this fund is shut down. As far as the DSS is concerned, we've been talking for years and we're confident, as Mr. Pastor said, we're more interested in seeing what the Vojvodina Development Bank report looks like and what happened to Vojvodina's Development Bank. We hope that, given that the Republic of Serbia has 23% participation in the Development Fund, we will have the opportunity here in the Assembly to see the report and the Development Bank and the Development Fund on the spending of these funds. Also, we hope that some future investigation will show where our money is, and that story about the alleged struggle for autonomy is actually a colorful lie for the gullible, because this is about the uncontrollable spending of hundreds of millions of euros, which really this Assembly has to ratify and see where these money is spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9151	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9152	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I will join our voice to the fact that here we are really talking about a package of laws that have very little to do with others. There are some, to say the least, synergy, but it's essentially different topics. As for energy, as we discussed here, I, as probably not a small number of other MPs, received a large number of messages from people who deal with this topic. One of the better things that happened in previous years, and it has waited too long for the past 10 years to first adopt a regulation where the price will be determined and under what conditions produced electricity from various sources will be purchased, but it happened and then there was a number of investors who faced our administration and, to a certain extent, were taught while it was working. A large number of them are now asking if they should continue to invest at all, because some conditions change overnight. The previous law can be criticised, but there's also a former minister, so I'll leave it to him. The fact is, he's been debated for a year. The fact is that it was a fundamental debate and that it got the green light of the Energy Community, whose member we are, which was located in Vienna. It's unequivocally not good, if we want to prove ourselves to be a country worth investing in renewable energy sources, that simply within a few days of a debate that I didn't attend, but I got a few messages, let's believe those who sent me that message, that during that discussion in the Chamber of Commerce, there was not talk about these elements, but there was talk about finding tariffs, i.e. on conditions of purchase of electricity. Let's tell the truth what really happened. My colleague Nikolic has already talked about what we think is not good in this law. My colleague, Komic, will talk a little later about article 11 which has unequivocally elements of retroactiveness and brings instability to business conditions. That's why I won't talk much more about this law. I'll talk about these laws for the minister. We have received a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on co-operation in the field of energy. If I remember correctly, and I think we remember well all the MPs present here, this text has already been included here in the agenda and has been withdrawn from the agenda. I think I remember well, as everyone here remembers well that if I'm not mistaken, the minister will say that she will carefully check what is going on here because the DSS MP has expressed certain doubts about the way in which this text came about. I'll leave it to her to discuss it. My question is quite simple. Since I've compared two versions and failed to see a single narrow difference, do you thus, Madam Minister, confirm, given that after a thorough check you returned and now defend before us tonight the text of the agreement between Serbia and Italy in the domain of renewable energy sources, that what was determined was best possible? I don't see any other explanation. In this way you confirm that there was no reason for any doubt, and I am grateful for that. In this way we confirm that the Republic of Italy, which we have been working with for years, will also be in this key strategic domain of energy one of our very important partners in the years to come. I don't want to talk about the Fund. I think it's said enough. Let me just say that it's probably more natural, that when we already have one number of goals, where there is a development component, as has been shown at the level of the Republic, we'd better have one institution called "All Genis", one specific institution, rather than trying such goals, to try to push into a very strict framework of a business bank. That way, I think we'll have a more stable solution for Vojvodina. Of course, the DS will vote for that law. As far as I'm concerned, and that's where I'd concentrate, this proposal for a guarantee law, that's where we have energy, and we don't have self-energy. I would like to remind you, honourable Members of Parliament, as well as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that exactly a month ago we heard from the finance minister and the economy in this government that there was a shift in public finances, that Serbia was going to light up, that money and funds would no longer be pushed into what has no future, and very concretely, we have here and the minutes, i.e. A stenogram from that session has been said to be over with liquidity guarantees for public enterprises. Don't tell me that was said by applying it next year. I don't know what that turn-on is. If it's a twist, make it right now. What do we need a twist if they don't need to reverse something that needs to change urgently? That's one argument that's not acceptable. Then it should have been said a month ago that the previous government, in which it was part, and very important in the domain of the economy, had to face the serious impact of the crisis, that it wasn't as easy then, as it was today. Immediately great fluctuations in the price of gas shift to our weakened economy and to our citizens and that it has therefore extended and planted the budget to deport this shock to our economy, which was already quite shaken back then. No, in return we had a demagogue that someone had been doing it irresponsiblely, that it was ill thought out and that it should not be done. We believed in you a month ago. So, I'm sorry, there's no support from DS for what you're trying to do, and that's to give up what you told us you were going to do, and that's that shift in public finances. Dear People's MPs, since it's always trying to compare here before and after, let's see the numbers. In the first seven months of this year, the total amount for liquidity guarantees and other things, primarily for the Building Directorate, to build apartments, is the majority of investments, useful because construction is said to run as many as 16 sectors around them. That was the first target of the guarantee given this year. Before that, Galenika and partly "Serbigas" and JAT. But we didn't talk about suddenly turning it around. We had the goal of being the initial chapel that should lead to restructuring. What are we saying today? Here we are, a month after a violently announced turnover in public finances, after the harmful supposed policy of some previous government, although they participated in it, we have a package, no less than 225m euros. The first seven months of this year – 15 billion dinars, about 140m euros. At the last moment of this year – 225m euros. Now I'm going to look at each of these four ratifications individually, to give the DS position. The first guarantee is given in favour of the Deutsche Bank of London, according to the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad, for the realisation of the South Stream project. Dear People's MPs, if we get a valid answer to the questions I'm about to ask about the terms of this loan, the DS will support this guarantee. Why? Because President Boris Tadic started a discussion with Mr Putin in 2007 that originally envisioned what should become a strategic partnership with the Russian Federation, because in this key domain, the Russian Federation has something to offer our country, independent of what is the principle of the Russian Federation's position on the Kosovo and Metohija issues. Madam Minister, if I remember correctly at the time you blogged against it, so I am interested in whether even today when there is a NIS within Gazprom is being prepared after a successful 500m-euro investment in the revitalisation of the Pancheva Refinery, we expect that absolutely organic, per European fuel standards, derivatives will be exported to the region of 800m euros. I even seem to have heard that the finance and economy minister who was the enemy of this agreement has praised one of the few elements that will ensure greater exports from our country. It shows why DS and President Boris Tadic led so much and consistently, despite numerous criticisms, and some of the policy options that came close to us, continued on that path. Why did President Tadic and DS go and end this strategic partnership in the domain of the oil and gas industry. Today we have a renewed NIS that will be a regional leader with significant exports of oil derivatives from our country. For various reasons, Serbia has not been able to provide these investments and has not had, perhaps it is an experience and weight in this strategic domain to reach that position. We're not talking about love here, we're talking about mutual interests. But at every moment, the pandan was to build the South Stream. How many times have we heard it's an illusion? How many times have people criticized saying that it's all one big scam? That, to quote – NIS will be cheaply sold out, sold out and closed down, because who wants to have refineries in this part now, anyway, is an excess capacity in this part of Europe. What if the price of oil falls? There's nothing in the South Stream anyway, and it's Europe against it? And what do we see today? A few days ago, Mr. Putin was in Brussels talking to European officials and what may have been the competition is increasingly turning into co-operation. From Nabucco, there's nothing, apparently. Key partners, especially German, come out of it. That is why today when the government proposes to grant us a 30m-euro loan guarantee for Serbia, Serbia begins to build among the first to build this "South Stream", we say – we are pleased not only because DS led the process, but because it is good, that gentlemen, and with the DSS, we have not forgotten it, and with some other partners. Today, when this government continues that way, we say it's good for our country. But I have some questions on behalf of the DS. First, when we talked about the facilities from this gas industry, one of the major projects was underground storage. Why? To avoid 2009, to have as some other countries the opportunity to ignore various geopolitical or other economic, God forbid, terrorist attacks on what the gas transmission system is. We also provided domestic and foreign sources, and now it is very important to note, for such investments we have provided non-commercial loans from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which for the first time has been funded by Serbia and under very favourable conditions, we have not only had cheaper sources of funding for this investment, but we have, of course, entered because the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and how close the EU is, what, ultimately, will always be true, which is that in the domain of energy, Europe and Russia will co-operate. We only have to gain from playing our cards wisely in this strategic partnership. But what do we see here? We got a loan from who? The Deutsche Bank of London. Now I'll tell you what the conditions are. First, for what the long-term project this loan is only for five years and it has only one year of waiting. Two, what's the interest? The interest rate, the euro-tribor for three months, today at 1600 hours when I checked he was 0.186% plus 6.2% margin, i.e. 6.386% interest in euro. Add to that, respected MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and make up from 1.5% for total appropriations and here we are almost 8% in the first year. Is that a success? Where now is the finance minister who told us a month ago that the capital market supports the Republic of Serbia. I heard 4.8. 5% interest, where's 8% from? Why, Madam Minister, and this is a question for you as much as for those who run Serbiaagas, did you not ask, did you not get from international financial institutions a loan and support for such an undertaking? One more question. Of course, no one believes that 30m euros is enough to build the South Stream. I'd like to hear from you, what your plan is for those funds and you'll tell us for sure what amount Serbia will be provided to cover its share of investment so that "South Stream" works when expected, if I'm not wrong for as long as two to three years in full capacity. So much for this guarantee. We'll vote for it and expect to understand why you didn't go where we went better and why and how. how you're going to secure the amount of money that's still missing that South Stream is being realized. In the end, we have three guarantees, just as we were told we were doing badly, and you will not work - 170m euros for Serbiaagas. If you had told us, we are doing this and we understand that you were doing it, that one form of depreciation of the significant rise in gas prices for our citizens, we might have supported it. But there's nothing here since the turn. I now want to ask the minister when we are talking about gas, one Bulgaria at the last moment of its negotiations on "South Stream" has provided a significant reduction in gas prices for its citizens. Recently, one Germany received a significant reduction in gas prices for its citizens. Do you have a strategy, you who signed a recent framework agreement that you personally have, I listened to you on TV, said it was just a framework and that we would only agree on prices later? Could you confirm to us that you are working like our neighbors to ensure a lower price than Gazprom, and therefore what you have already announced, which is an increase in the price of gas, that it is not at all, i.e. to be much lower than that 10 to 20% of how much did you announce, if I understood you well before the end of the heating season? If we look at it, as far as Serbia's concerned, it's even worse here. No bank was found, it went on three. How much do they want? That Euro-tribor I was talking about a little before and a margin that goes from 6.2 to 6.95% of the margin plus that 1.5% of the commission. So here we are at 9%. Here we are at 9% all with the sovereign guarantee we're discussing here. The sovereign guarantee of the Republic of Serbia, translated into our language, means that if Serbia doesn't pay, it won't be able to pay, it will pay the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Here's what they all think, according to the real capital markets now, about the risk of the Republic of Serbia. Why is this so expensive? This government that you've criticised so much, and this Ministry of Finance that you've criticised so much, it's been getting, to remind you, a margin of 4.5 to 5%, mostly. There were fewer margins for these loans. Not only that, when you talk about fees they obviously negotiated a little better and I'm talking about it freely, I didn't personally negotiate, because these fees were between 0.2% and 0.5%. When you say 0.5% per 170m euros each decimal is millions. Of course, what is particularly worrying is the fact that even this loan is not on some longer term. Here and this loan is for five years and we really don't understand why it wasn't possible to provide more money for this need. Finally, these two additional arrangements. As far as Galenika is concerned, I'd like the minister, although she's not in charge, but at least we'd like to know why we don't have any elements here about this loan. I'd like the finance minister to come and explain it to us. We are told here that a 15m-euro guarantee is given plus every interest and any other compensation. Except here in the text, I haven't seen a trace of it. What's hiding here? He shouldn't be hiding. We're asking from the DS, especially given that for several months now, not to say, a year, a year and a half, there are reasonable doubts about serious illegal activities in this company, to tell us how much this is going to cost after all. It is a minimum of transparency that is necessary to consider in one serious way this guarantee. In the end, JAT. So ten million euros, right here, Eurobor for three months plus 6.95%. It has never been this expensive, we have never had such margins on what should be guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia and add one percent of the compensation to that. This is a little bit longer, this goes on for seven years, we have two and a half years to start, that's a little better, but the margin, the cost of this, it's very unfavourable. One more thing, do those who run the government today know that 13 salaries and bonuses in JAT are currently being paid? If you don't know, ask around. Look what's going on out there. I'm not sure that you've ever provided for transparency and that shift in the management of the public enterprises that were spoken of. "Srbigas", my dear colleague, you appointed him, and also an MP, at the same time, as director of the company, a few days before we passed the Law on Public Enterprises here, because, to wait, he could not be appointed. In the end, I want to say that unfortunately, it seems to me, that even in this case, we see one thing that is constant in the work of this government, thunderous announcements, and then reversing in what is done. We heard before the summer that the NBS Act, that it was fully in line with EU regulations, and I think that two and a half months later, had to be changed on his nose, so that the European Commission's 2012 report would not be criticised. We don't have the opinion of the European Commission here. You could've asked for that. This isn't harmless. Let's not lie. Energy with agriculture is one of those strategic sectors where and how the EU wants to be asked. When we are a member of the EU and when we start negotiating, we will not be able to build any facility or gas pipeline of any kind without getting the green light of the EU, let the DSS people write it down if they are interested. That's right. It wasn't built by accident, this fellow Skundric knows very well those others who were ministers, one of the most powerful mechanisms that exists for the Western Balkans, is the energy community, which enters what the people say is a tiny worm of everything that happens in this domain. We in the DS, right now, although there was little time to get messages from the budget, they weren't consulted, they weren't invited into that chamber of yours. Why? There's no reason. What's so urgent here? Why don't you pull back nicely, as my colleague Nikolic suggested, pull this bill, and we'll have great luck, Madam Minister, to meet you again in January, February of the month, when you show us that the community agrees with this, when we have a little talk with all the investors in this domain and to see if everything is in order, to declare this law, but in this state, the MPs, the Energy Act brought in overnight, the agreement with Italy, which the minister pulled out and said that there are serious problems, and today he brings it back to us with the same one. Guarantees for the construction of the South Stream where it was not ensured that it was financed from non-performing conditions, as must be possible with the support of the EU, the grants finally, this liquidity guarantee, which you told us was very bad and rusty in the previous government, and now you suggest you do it once, one and a half times more, than was the case of the previous government, I think that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia understand very well why in these circumstances, the DS will not and cannot support these proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9153	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9154	Where you start when you talk like that, which is in some ways the consequences of you not doing your job well. When you say, to remind you, at the end of 2011, you broadcast state records worth $1 billion, and the interest rate was 7.7%. As you say and like to do it again, let me tell you once again, one billion dollars, seven percent, no problem, you have to wait until I say so, so you tell me what you have, and that we last broadcast with an interest of 5.2%, and it is particularly interesting when you show regret for the situation in Serbia's economy today, because this situation in Serbia's economy today is largely due to your work, or inadequate work. The fact that today Serbia's economy is in serious trouble, that we had a credit rating drop that you tried to accuse the new government, seems to be not so, but rather the result of what you were doing in the previous period. A few things you mentioned here that I think are very important to say how, you're just wrong. Let's start with that IBRD loan for "Srbigas," taken right at the time you were Deputy Prime Minister, if I was wrong, if you weren't vice president of that moment, but anyway, the time you were in the government, taken part for liquid liquidity, one part because of the underground gas storage, for certain restructurings, and I was represented by the IBRD, and I know exactly why you were taken from the IBRD, because those are their words. Unfortunately, to remind you, you haven't done a restructuring of the public company "Srbigas", and you took credit for it, and we have serious problems today because we haven't used that money to do what was necessary, or you didn't use it for what was needed, without talking about an underground warehouse that didn't even start to build. Excuse me, you were part of the government when that loan was taken. The second thing you mention, regarding the price of gas, I will remind you that Bulgaria is a hub and, unfortunately, has a greater opportunity to negotiate and you know it very well, and Germany's most significant partner in Europe is Russia's Gazprom, and therefore the northern current is built. Therefore, their opportunities for negotiations are much greater than ours, unfortunately, we are the last, to say the least, so we have a problem with the price, but I said very clearly, we have signed a framework agreement in the next ten years on gas purchase, but every year through an annual contract, it will be absolutely everything and I want to do absolutely everything that Serbia has a more favourable price of gas, because I think the price of gas is too high for one Serbia, having in mind and a partner relationship with Russia that you are talking about and saying that you have done a lot in this partnership relationship with the Russian Federation, and we have the highest price of gas in the region. It seems you haven't done so much in this partnership relationship that I'm not talking about how you negotiated with Russian partners about the energy agreement. If all the countries that are signatories of the South Stream have received a partnership relationship, those who were negotiating at the time, and you are now and of course, your former president of the party, then the president of the state, has signed this energy agreement with the Russian Federation, then you should also say that we are the only state, thanks to your negotiations that we unfortunately have 49% in that energy agreement. It's not the responsibility of those who were in opposition, it's your responsibility. Why, like all other countries, we do not have a partnership, why not like this Bulgaria, like all other states that have signed the agreement? In addition, when you signed the agreement, the partnership relationship on the construction of the South Stream is not only for the "South Stream", the minority participation of Serbia, but also for the Banatski Dvor, but, of course, in the sale of NIS. Therefore, it is up to you to explain, what did you do in the negotiations when all other countries went better than Serbia at that time? What is it? It's here. We are now here to do "South Stream" and to do absolutely everything that the Banatical Court functions, even in such a relationship, with Serbia's participation. Furthermore, when you speak and mention the Italian agreement, I may be tired, but I know very well that here in the Assembly I have made clear, we are withdrawing the Italian agreement from the procedure, because Republika Srpska, which is part of the energy agreement with which we are building power plants, and I have addressed and said that it wants to change a list of projects within the projects, within the energy agreement with Italy. That is why we have withdrawn the agreement, further consultations have been carried out in Rome and with representatives of the Ministry of Energy and Mining of Republika Srpska. They were representatives of the Serbian Ministry of Energy. Republika Srpska has withdrawn from its changes and therefore the agreement in the project list is exactly the same as the one we withdrew. Unfortunately, we couldn't know that Republika Srpska won't change it, although she announced her change, so that was why we pulled the Italian agreement, or now returned it, exactly the same. Another interesting thing, when you're talking about the amendments to the Energy Act again, I know I've said it several times, but I still have to mention, these are amendments and additions to nine members of the Energy Act. There is absolutely no need to seek other opinions, I mean the European Commission that you have mentioned so many times, or Vienna, or the Energy Community in particular, but the opinion of the European Integration Office. Are you saying that the Office for European Integration is an unnecessary institution, that it does not give an opinion in accordance with EU directives? I don't think I'd agree with you. It's right there to help us and to work together. After all, you also supported the work of that office. We really do have all the opinions. What we've tried through the amendments and the additions to the law to do is really just to help build small hydropower plants here as soon as possible. I'm sorry if you don't understand. I'm also sorry that you don't support good suggestions. Maybe that's why you don't support the good stuff, so the party rating is so low, that's all "okay," but come on, think about what's being proposed here, because if proposed, believe it because of Serbia being better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9155	Thank you. The word has Božidar Djelic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9156	That's very interesting. So now you're saying that the price can't be less, because we're some last hole in a gas station. The moment you said that Bulgaria is becoming a hub, because there is now not one, but two pipelines, we know that well, so I guess it was time for you to negotiate something. If I was pretending a little less naive than I am, I know you tried. When you talk about a partnership relationship, did you happen to miss that of all the countries that the South Stream is going through, the only one that is not yet a member of the EU is Serbia, and that this may change a little bit the way that we can influence some decisions. When you talk about price, you always have to compare in time. I just didn't hear the minister try to keep the price down. We heard today that you can't do anything about it. If you can't do anything, I'm going to ask you tonight, because a lot of Serbian citizens expect it, how long, because you can't get a lower price of gas, you're going to increase the price of gas for citizens, starting with when? January or February? It's simple stuff. You're the minister. That's your specialty. As you know, you've been following this for a long time, I'm asking only two things - as much as percentage and when. I guess that's all you can say, because it's very important for certain decisions that our citizens and our economy will make in the months to come. When you're talking about a party relationship, I can ask you, when you were a counselor in the vice president's office, why did you let those 50% "Yugorosgas" drop? Why didn't you do what you had to do? You had these powers so Serbia wouldn't lose 25% of its "Yugorosgas". And let me ask you, since it came out in the media, you even got through the president from your party, you tried to shut down, if I'm not mistaken, the middleman from the Jugorosgas store. You failed. What do you have to say about that? Is that okay now or isn't it okay?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9157	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9158	Mr. Djelic, I understand that you have a close newspaper that you like to read, on various grounds close, but I must tell you that what you read is not true. So, the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection has unfortunately inherited a framework agreement on long-term gas supply with the Russian Federation that your government has done again, so we've got something that you've already negotiated, as well as in many things you've also done, not to mention other areas now, but now we're just sticking to energy. Everything we could do, we did, related to the framework agreement with the Russian Federation. You have previously made it, as I will remind you once more, thanks to your negotiation, Serbia is the only country that has 49% in an energy agreement with the Russian Federation. So you did it and you negotiated as a party. Furthermore, "Yugorosgas" that you mention, I'm the first one to talk about not losing 25% in "Yugorosgas." I was the first to speak at that time, even though I was in government, that NIS did not respect the board's decision and that the people in charge did not. Not that it's wrong, if you remember, if you're already reading the newspaper, even in that newspaper close to you, then it also said about it. In addition to what you mentioned about the price of gas, I told you that in the annual gas price contracts, we do everything. I also spoke to the Russian Federation Energy Minister, Mr Novak, not only in Belgrade, but also in Russia, and Gazprom, about making the price for Serbia more favourable. I agreed with you that the price is too high. Being too tall, someone hasn't done it before, but I want to do it, because that's my priority. When you talk about how much the price of gas or electricity, or any other energy, will go up in the next period, in 2013, I'm a responsible person, waiting for all the analyses that are there. I'm not someone who's gonna talk to the media and announce. So, I said that during the first quarter of 2013, based on analyses that will be carried out not only by public companies but by means of the procedure, which is the Agency for Energy, it will agree, or, which will be proposed by the Government, to decide on the purchase of the price of gas or electricity. So, I do my utmost to make sure that what now seems to be in the energy sector is transparent and transparent on one hand, and that's why this energy law is there, and on the other hand, as you know, we're doing social maps, etc., you all know very well, let's do everything you've done in the energy sector in the previous period, it was bad, let's try to fix it. That's what our mission is. Bulgaria is a hub long ago. Therefore, since it is a hub, it has a better negotiating potential and you know it as well. Serbia is the last one on the pipe, that's the truth. So it's also a small consumer. For that reason, there's no such big negotiating position, but there are. You haven't used them at all in the past. I'll use them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9159	Thank you. The word is Mrs Popovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9160	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I think that Parliament, in fact, let me tell you, I advertise articles 106, 107, 116. Rules of Procedure. I really don't think parliament is the place where some personal wars will be fought and personal animosities will be cleared up. I would really like to remind the Minister and all these MPs sitting here in parliament, who ratified everything, who was all involved in the negotiation of the Russian-Serbian Energy Agreement. I mean, and more than that, I know Madam Minister, that they are members of your current party, too...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9161	Mrs Popovic, I remind you that you can only give an explanation for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9162	The reason is that everyone, in fact, participated in the conclusion of the energy agreement. So, as many coalition partners as possible, Mr. Velja Ilic, let's order all these people who participated in the creation of this energy agreement. So why now listen to a story that's just...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9163	Mrs. Popovic, I really think you're abusers of the Rules of Procedure and I'm going to have to take your time, or I'm going to take your time from your MP group. It is my duty in accordance with Article 130.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9164	You know how, it's still about Parliament dignity, right? So you must not allow, in the sense of Article 27, that others abuse the Rules of Procedure by conducting their own small, private conflicts and wars. Let's get back to the subject. We know who made all the deals, we know who was involved in the deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9165	Thank you, Mrs. Popovic. I don't think there's any damage to Articles 106, 107 and 116. The Rules of Procedure, since both Minister Mihajlovic and Mr Djelic were on the agenda. I think it's a constructive debate and you, if you think the Rules of Procedure are broken, do you want to make a statement in the voting day? Yeah. ) The word has Bozidar Djelic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9166	I think tonight, as far as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are concerned, we have received two information, electricity and gas will be more expensive. We also heard that there is good will and I welcome it, but without any indication or any element of the platform how we will ensure that gas is now, when the price falls for many consumers, it is lower with us. In the end, since you mentioned it, I'd like to show you this chart. You may not learn that at some colleges where you teach, I don't know, but this is something you learn in the first year of any high school. Here you have interest, and here you have a manual. You have now explained to us that we must be happy that we have now paid 8% for five years, and you mentioned that we are on one bond, which is 10 years longer twice as long for Mr. Arsic because he made the same mistake a few weeks ago. I remember, I was a little shocked. So, to remind you, there's a guilty offering. The longer the handle, the bigger the interest. That is also the case with the Eurobonds of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, when a tranche is issued for 10 years, it is more expensive than what is nine years and nine years is significantly more expensive than what is five years. Thank you for showing that what we did in debt for 10 years was cheaper than what you're in charge of for five years. I couldn't have shown better what the art was about on our side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9167	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9168	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know who drew that chart, maybe it's aunty, but you're saying that credit per year is cheaper than credit for 10 years? Is that what you're trying to convince me? Nothing, then go to some bank and convince them. How many short-term loans – 22, 24, 26 and 30% for dinars. How long or medium term, five years – 15, 16, 17%. What, it's not like that? Go check the banks without the foreign exchange clauses or what they cost. The popular minus. It's a short-term loan. (Božidar Djelic, from the place: "Don't be embarrassed." No, I'm not. Go, check the amount of credit per year, two, three or five, and you'll see that the interest rate is reduced by the length of the loan payment. There is a simple economic logic, and that logic is – funds are placed instead of standing in the deposit of a bank that fertilises nothing. These are the elements of logic. That's why long-term loans are cheaper because of the secured placement. When it's like what you're saying now, try any bank. We had a law a year and a half ago, a law on the protection of users of financial services. Why would banks charge fines if you wanted to break a contract with a bank, or early payment of a loan? Because you're jeopardizing their placement. Don't say that. If that's how it was in high school, I've been interested in it since when?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9169	Thank you. Mr. Djelic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9170	Mr. Arsic, I have a simple suggestion. We'll go to Mrs. Tabakovic's together. Can you do that? Come on, let's go tomorrow. Is that she's frozen a function in your party... (President: Mr. Djelic, please get serious. No, this is a really serious thing. We have the head of the parliamentary group of the largest party in power and I have to say that one number of economic students and one number of high school students are probably wondering if he studied well at school. Mr. Arsic, let me tell you two things. First of all, credit to dinars and foreign exchange credit is not the same. First that. Second, let me tell you one more thing. Credit if it's secured, it's not the same price as when it's not secured. Why are short-term loans, so-called. White, without purpose, expensive? Because the bank is at the highest risk there. Now let's be a little more serious. When you look at the bonds, you always have interest that grows. Why? Just because the money you leave behind is longer, of course you're going to ask for a bigger contribution because you're going to immobilize it longer. That's the value of time in finance. It's a key element in economic life. I'm a little worried to hear what I'm hearing today, because it shows that we have people who need to make fateful decisions about our lives, who obviously don't have the foundation for it, but we're willing to work with you so that it doesn't exist anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9171	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9172	I don't know why you'd go to Mrs. Tabakovic's. She taught your governors how to run the National Bank in a short period of time. What you now want to present and to talk about, I would ask you to step out of these policy-making patterns once and not to appear as an adviser to any company, so thanks to privileged information, you come out of a job of 10.11m euros richer than you entered, and that without this privileged information you manage on the market of goods and services, to chase loans not because you are Bozidar Djelic, but because you are just a man looking for a job and wants to provide funds for his business. Then you can tell me what the elements of business policy are, how it reacts on the market, what are the deadlines for loans per year, two, three and five, and what are the interest rates. One more thing, what you're saying is that time is a factor that costs, is, but it's even more costing a capital that's not placed. You have to agree with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9173	I assume it's a replica, Mr. Djelic? (Yes) I'll give you my word, but I'd like to ask that when this replica set is over, let's get back to the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9174	In my previous session, I've always bought the books of your former party chief, Vojislav Seselj. Now I'm going to give you a book on the question of money distribution that hopefully will ensure that we don't go to any personal bases, but to see a little bit of what's true, because there aren't any patterns here. There are simply some things that are mathematics and reality in life that all our citizens face. It would be good for all of us here in this home, because we make extremely important decisions for our citizens, we make that effort. You can, in that domain, I may be able in some other domains where we don't have enough knowledge to try to be the best possible, and all in the interest of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9175	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9176	President-in-Office of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, a respected minister, when the ruling majority in this House discusses seven laws that are not related to each other, we opposition MPs wonder why that is so? When the Government of the Republic of Serbia is constantly giving us laws by emergency procedure, it points to its unseriousness. I can understand that today we have this united debate only for one reason, because the Vojvodina Development Fund has nothing to do with the Energy Law, for the reason that citizens don't have enough time to find out that this government owes them today for 225m euros or 30 euros each inhabitant of this country. At the previous session, the same government and this assembly tasked the citizens with the Colubara. That's when we had the chance to hear the power won't go up. Today we know they will, and so will the gas. Of these 225m euros, 200m euros are given to "Srbigas", out of which 170m for liquid liquidity. If we know that many citizens in our country are suffering from heart disease and if we know that they are large ranks, where citizens are waiting for a review or for surgery, then we should know that for these 170m euros it was possible to build the 100 clinics that citizens need to treat these diseases. That would solve the cardiovascular disease problem. In this way we will not solve this problem, nor will we solve the problem of the failed company "Srbigas". For years, the Liberal Democratic Party has been warning the previous government and this government now that "Srbigas", JAT and Galenika, are doing a bad job. We've never come across an understanding that these companies don't need guarantees. Although the pre-election promise of the largest party, which makes up the government's headquarters, the new government, is whether or not to employ additional citizens, we see that this is not the case. Independent economists say we're on the verge and borderline to go bankrupt. Independent economists say we are also one step away from the Greek scenario happening in Serbia and that it is really no longer necessary to borrow this country. It is true that the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget provides for the issue of guarantees, but that does not mean that guarantees must be given. We talked today in the afternoon debate and on Monday about the Law on Public Procurement, about a law that should prevent further corruption in our country. The Liberal Democratic Party said it does not believe that the law will have an effect, as it is presented in public, precisely because the law will not be implemented very often. Today we have a chance to see that we were right. You're giving us four laws. Only Galenika has made public procurement for the purchase of financial services. Aren't you ashamed that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this parliament, when the new public procurement law is on the agenda, is delivering guarantees for loans for which no public procurement has been made? So is it 200m euros small, or is it a small matter, that such loans are not being carried out in public procurement? That's why we have between us and that interest rate between 7% and 9%. We have interest rates that have the most vulnerable countries in the world, countries with major financial problems. If the state has already provided guarantees in the last four years, 530m euros for "Srbigas", why are we giving them today? Why are we giving guarantees to this company if Mladjan Dinkic says that "Srbijagas" is in charge of a billion euros? Why do you say this, Madam Minister, and you're responsible for "Srbigas" as Minister of Energy, except for the director... (President: Time. Let me just finish my sentence. When you said that this company is doing a very bad job, it's your statement to the media, and where do you have moral responsibility, do you have it to vote for the director before the Law on Public Enterprises, which you said a few days earlier, had ruined the company?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9177	National Ambassador Sanda Raskovic Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9178	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Minister, Mr. President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. I was already talking about an energy agreement between Serbia and Italy about two months ago, and then I evaluated this agreement as an uncolonioned agreement. I rated it that way, because it provides for Serbia to give its main resources in hydropotentials and wind power, mainly to firms from the Republic of Italy, which thus meet that goal in 2020, or one third of the electricity that will be green energy, but since Serbia has committed the same way, it remains up to us to produce from much more expensive sources of energy these 30% of green energy. In addition, we have made a commitment by this agreement to create a transmission system for electricity exports completely, which can be measured by hundreds of millions of euros, and this right thing, i.e. from geothermal sources, or biomass, would reach about a billion euros. Since I'm not from the energy world, when I read this agreement, I immediately went to your "blog", Madam Minister. It's a "blog" that's been on B92 since 30 May 2010, when you evaluated some of these agreements, saying about Italy and its company that it's a job of the century, but that for Serbia, it's a busy job. Where is the state interest of citizens, consumers of Serbia when the minister signed such an agreement? The Italian company will employ a small Serb force, and Serbia will have to import the energy it needs at an expensive price. That's a lot of criticism for these Italian companies who got the job. Meanwhile, storm rights were raised in the Italian public, so on the Italian TV RAI 3 there was a show on the energy investment of Italy, i.e. its companies which were rated as controversial companies in countries on the other side of the Adriatic, which were estimated to be more, as "banana" of the state, more Montenegro, and we less, but still we got our own. So it turns out that Italy invests big money, but Italian bonds don't have much of it, no happiness or benefit, but only one small number of people who are tied to these companies benefit from it. Meanwhile, I was informed that on the renewable electricity market, there was a price drop, a drastic drop in prices. In that sense, I understood that you were, in fact, in this agreement, after a lot of expectations, delays, criticisms that you gave yourself at the time, of course, at that time was a different position and I totally understand you, because I know what it was like to be in the position of the opposition or in the position of the government, so I thought you might have thought that now would be a moment because this is a moment when it is a luxuriant for Serbia. However, I also heard that the Italian side is not very excited that it should invest money and enter into this business with Serbia. Believe me, "bona fide" means in best interest, there is one proposal to stop a little bit of ratification of this agreement, in that we first talk to ourselves, whether this agreement is worth it to us, whether this is a real investment for the state of Serbia, whether we can finance our hydropotentials on our own and in a different way. Besides, if we make this agreement, if we ratify it, and the Italian side is not satisfied, it can, because we don't have a concession commission and we don't have a way to commit potential investors, or concrete investors, to come in and make from the beginning to the end, to end all our investments, to Ibra and Drina, and elsewhere, we're going to be at one risk that they accept it now, some of them do something, but they don't do something, and we're left with our resources untapped. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9179	Thank you. The word has Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9180	Thank you. Regarding that transmission you mentioned, the transmission cable is not something that will be financed by Serbia, but is financed exclusively by the Italian side. The value of that cable is about 800m euros. I just want to explain it. What I said as positive from this agreement is that the ransom price, to repeat, is 155 euros per megawatt hour, which is really not small and is exactly classified as a guarantee, i.e. as an obligation that it will certainly be 155 euros per megawatt hour. I wouldn't comment otherwise.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9181	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9182	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, dear Mr. Pastor, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to apologize in advance, I find it really very difficult to be focused here after 13 hours of intensive work and to be able to present what I've prepared and what I wanted to talk about. And it's very complicated on that side, because we're in this package, if I may say so, but it is because there's everything in this package, we kind of came into a position now to separate the special parts of that package, if we want to talk about it, and to think that these others are less important. As someone who is chairman of the Environment Committee, I want to speak in this part of the four draft laws relating to energy. I must regret to say that whenever we talk about energy, we start with a sentence – Serbia really has great energy potentials that can affect its development and it ends. Unfortunately, by looking at energy, we are far from having as potential. When it comes to the ecological aspect of energy, I must say that Serbia, in addition to all the countries in the region, of course I exclude Croatia, is doing a little bit more than we do, rather a helmet for European standards, but it is a good thing that Serbia, as well as one of the largest number of countries in Europe, has committed to international contracts, that in Serbia, 27% of the energy comes from renewable energy sources, which is more expensive in the beginning, but it is a very good variant for Serbia. I have to say, starting with this fact that I said in Serbia, energy is the greatest polluter, but again, what I just said is a good thing, and on that side I can really welcome the story of green energy. According to the current strategy of Serbia's energy sector by 2015, the energy potential of renewable sources has been estimated at more than 4.3 million tonnes of equivalent oil annually, of which 2.7 to 3.2 million waste, practically by weight, 0.6 million tonnes is hydropotential, 0.2 million tonnes are geothermal sources, 0.2 million tonnes is wind energy and 0.6 million tonnes is solar energy. Also, I have to figure something out, why am I pulling these things out? Because it's important for me to talk about what potential we have and why it's important to recognize this potential as our chance to develop and finally start investing in that potential. We've really invested in energy so far. If I say 500m euros, it is a big number but it is minor, for what Serbia needs in this sector to invest. I must say, at a time when the strategy was made, no research was done. It's that minus I'm talking about when I'm talking about what we have and what we don't recognize. No research has been done to see what capacity we have in the energy of the wind and the energy of the sun, so these results here that I've produced are insignificant compared to what we have. Meanwhile, research has been done, so I expect that at some point these data will appear as very important, that they will change the image of the energy of these sources. It should also be noted that Serbia is at the top of European countries by the amount of untapped biomass available. Unfortunately, it is the most expensive source of renewable energy and Serbia, somehow, until now, mainly uses biomass and biomass just as heat. She is our potential and needs to see a way to finally employ that potential. He could thus save more than 60m euros a year, which is not a negligible figure and should be considered. We're talking about this hydropotential and it's estimated at 17 terawatts of hours, its utilisation is between 60% and 70%. That means we have room to use, and because this is what my colleague, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, said, and I repeat, it is very important. This contract with Italy, which is in that part, and I have to point out another fact, hydropotential is the cheapest source of renewable energy, and that is why it is the one that attracts investor attention on the side, it fills that quota up to 30%, and on the other hand, it is the cheapest, but it also opens that space to Serbia. Serbia must then invest up to 27% from other sources, which are also more expensive. I'm not going to talk about how much trouble the previous Energy Act has brought. I'm glad you got into these changes. I expected changes to be in some other parts. The fact is, you've only based on these few basic things that concern licenses. Make it end up on licenses, 'cause I'm losing my concentration. I have to say a few of our key issues. You really have the retroactivity of the law. In Article 10, this retroactivity appears. The lawyers are interpreting this as retroactive. It cannot be allowed, because if we want to be someone who wants to offer investors some conditions that are constant and constant, we cannot change them in the process itself. In Articles 6 and 7, you leave out deadlines. I've been counting, and in your explanation, you're writing that you want to speed up the procedure and download from 27 of some procedures to five. It shows your intention, but then you have to set deadlines for the ministry and our bureaucracy, the bureaucratic system, to give some deadlines where they have to move. The 34th and 34th are really problematic. Location permits really require an investor to visit many institutions that apparently have very long procedures. Let's say, at the wind parks, it takes you four years to get a building permit. It's one of the distractions that didn't get people into these investments. There's something else I need to say. Underlaws are the same problem in these areas, and in these laws they simply lack. I'm talking about these wind parks again, there was a missing sublegal act. You've found that you've come up with an Action Plan for renewable energy sources and that's good, that's missing, and that was very important when it comes to these renewable energy sources. After all, it was our obligation, in line with what the energy community had set before us. It shows what kind of future Serbia plans for itself when it comes to renewable energy sources and that's okay. I see I have a few minutes left, so I can use them. I'm gonna go back to my contract with Italy, because I thought I'd stay on some other stuff a lot longer. There is everything that my colleague from the parliamentary group has found, but around this contract, there have been many things that have been spontaneously made public, because somehow the whole contract has remained very mysterious and has been done beyond the public's eyes. Also, when you last pulled this off the agenda, I expected you to do something about this part, that you would renegotiate, that something would change in the contract. From what I read when you were speaking while you were in opposition, it was clear that you and I at the DSS were thinking the same thing. Serbia doesn't have much use for it, it really doesn't. If the price that was higher is excluded, but the price of renewables is falling, the energy from renewable sources is falling, that we will, let's say, have a Serbian firm do something like a subcontractor, or in a similar place, we won't get much. As I would say, out of the big cake, Serbia will get crumbs, and it will lose a lot, and I'm not sure if this contract should have been put on the agenda at all. I think it was wise to stop. We've seen in the media that Italy is not satisfied with this contract either. I kind of interpret that one and the other who's not happy with the contract, then we should open that contract and talk about it. About what kind of help again in large amounts of money, tons of money, as I would say, we give "Serbiagas," I think I'm ashamed more of talking. I think about it so much is said and it's a shame that right now, in front of New Year's Eve when people patch up the ending, we're more helping those who helped cultural art events, other kinds of events. So they have money to invest it in other places, and Serbian citizens need to fill the company's pockets. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9183	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9184	I thank you for everything you said about Serbia's energy, it is potential. Unfortunately, it hasn't been used enough, and we hope that with these amendments and additions of the law, we'll speed things up. One where you're absolutely right and where we saw that it's possible to use even more renewable energy sources, that is, biomass that we're too rich to do. What is the Ministry's plan, which I have already announced several times, is that it begins with our heat that will start using biomass as input fuel, not only for heat generation, but for cogeneration, therefore, for both heat and electricity, thus being energy-efficient over 80%. Now they're 30 percent effective. So everything else disappears and is thrown away. So our plan is to use biomass in that direction. When you mention the Energy Development Strategy, there is currently a new Energy Development Strategy. It will be presented in parliament, so you will see a serious newspaper. I couldn't agree more on many sublegal acts that weren't finished. They were even, according to our obligations, supposed to be completed a year ago, but the previous government didn't finish them, so now we're in this obligation and we're doing it. These sublegal acts will be completed in the first quarter of 2013. When you mention the Italian agreement, what is important is that the Italian agreement was ratified in the Italian Parliament and that it came to us as such. So we've inherited it, it's already been ratified and it's not some major and fundamental change to be, given everything you're saying right now. In a second, I'll just go back to changing and supplementing the Energy Act. You mentioned deadlines. You're absolutely right. After all, we have adopted these amendments that you have made, and we will speak in the days for the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9185	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Bojan Kostresh.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9186	Mr. President, President Pastor, Madam Minister, I think this whole story about the AP Vojvodina Development Fund, the way we had the idea to extract the Vojvodina Development Bank, and then, from one night to the night, there was information that the AP Vojvodina Development Fund was being formed, in some way speaking about the AP Vojvodina relationship and what the current governments in Belgrade, not only this government, but also the previous one, and she before her, thinks and talk about the AP Vojvodina. We leaguers and league girls defended the right of the AP Vojvodina to have its own duchy developmental bank, not getting into whether or not that duchy development bank was doing good or bad. That should be decided by the founder, by the duchy administration, by the Assembly of Vojvodina and the Government of the AP Vojvodina. Vojvodina has the right to have its own Development Bank. Vojvodina has the right to decide its development and Vojvodina has the right to influence economic opportunities in its territory because it is an autonomous province. If we want to abolish the AP Vojvodina, which is also a legitimate political stance, then let's say - we will destroy Vojvodina, we will abolish it, we do not need Vojvodina to exist, and therefore there should not be any AP Vojvodina institutions, nor its administration, nor any activity that the Vojvodina Assembly or the government of the Vojvodina offices. It's fair, but like this every time you try to destroy everything the AP Vojvodina does, it's not good and it's not acceptable for us from LSV. We've had a few weeks of campaigning that the Vojvodina Development Bank is in front of bankruptcy and that it shouldn't be invested in it, that it's bad, etc. Okay, if she's bad, then it will be decided by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and its government. If the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and its government make bad moves for the citizens and citizens of Vojvodina, then citizens and citizens of Vojvodina will not support it. I'll remind you, from 2000 to today, the same administration has ruled the AP Vojvodina. It will not be that citizens and citizens of the AP Vojvodina do not see results and do not see what is done in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the Government of the AP Vojvodina. So the question is whether Vojvodina can have its Development Bank is whether the AP Vojvodina can make decisions on its development and whether it can manage its resources. One of my colleagues said in his discussion that Vojvodina has a development fund in a better position than the rest of the Republic of Serbia where there are no development funds. I ask you -- why don't we build a Forest Development Fund, why don't we build a Moravia area development bank, why don't we build a Western Serbian development fund? We do not need to destroy the duchy autonomy by destroying what the duchess and duchess created to bring into an equal position or to a more equal position for the rest of the people in Serbia. No one from Vojvodina is opposed to forming development banks in other regions in Serbia. That's exactly why LSV won't vote for this law. We think it's the humiliation of the AP Vojvodina, that it's the humiliation of two million citizens and citizens and that it's the humiliation of the Vojvodina administration. One of my predecessors said it wasn't only this assembly, this home, that it wasn't the Serbian government, that by changing the decision and changing some attitudes it contributed a lot to the Vojvodina administration. I'm sorry Mr. Pastor isn't here, because I know his attitude about it. I'm sorry about sharing the same attitudes, and I don't think Mr. Pastor should take a beating for this, because it's not his fault. It is simply that we are coming into a situation where constant pressures are being made on the duke's administration, constantly trying to take away all its powers, constantly trying to prevent Vojvodina from self-influencing its development and managing its own resources. Every time we ask where our money is, we get the label that we're separatists. We don't want to take other people's money. We just want to manage our own resources. We want to help every part of Serbia that wants to take our steps means taking responsibility for its destiny and helping develop. I really don't think it's good that Shumadi doesn't have his own development bank. Why wouldn't she have one? Why wouldn't the Shumadins affect their own development? Why the Moravia region people? Why does everything have to be here in Belgrade and everything has to be centralized, and for everything we have to get the opinion of the Republic government? Whether down in the bar, there is no one sitting in the regions who has an idea of how to develop their region and how it should be influenced to work better and more efficiently to open development perspectives. (President: Time. Here I go. Serbia will be strong when all its regions are strong enough and economically developed, and it will not develop if we stick everything in Belgrade and if everything is decided in Belgrade. That's why the leaguers won't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9187	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9188	Ladies and gentlemen, in a joint principled and unified search, whose debate is under way, I will deal with the greatest part of the draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Act in three parts. First I will try to explain to all those who look at us or look at us in a simpler way what it is, and then I will comment on the quotes of what the minister here said and finally a little bit about the money. So, the Energy Act, which had an amendment and a supplement, was in ministries with different other areas, but I have to start defending here two ministers. One I voted for, one I didn't vote for. One is Mr. Petar Skundric, and the other is Mr. Radomir Naumov. Both have made a huge contribution to the legislation that has been applied to energy by this law and its amendments to this day, good, bad, but it has had its application. The biggest part of what we've heard is the challenge of Mr. Peter Skundric's work. Why am I defending each other? Because enough time had passed since the end of the term of office and one and the other that anyone who could have found an objection to the work or to the minister's responsibility had the opportunity to do so, but he didn't. Just one example I'm going to give, arguments for the adoption of a bill of amendments and additions, claims to be reselling licenses, which is not true, because you can't resell the license. It was a company resale, and you can't stop it because it's not by the Constitution to stop it. You can try to ban companies from being resold, but you cannot remain sustainable in the system because it is contrary to what is applicable to the sale of enterprises, which I do not judge worthfully whether in this business world, under the existing law, businesses can, cannot, should or should not be resold. We can't ban it, but I find it entirely inappropriate to justify the adoption of this law and to place on the burden of Minister Petar Skundric some illegal or rather some sort of business with permits and consent, especially Mr. Radomir Naumov. We have a problem that this law does not deal with, in fact, and none of the provisions of these laws will be able to solve the problem we have on the ground, which is that for someone who wants to invest in a small hydropower plant like this on Studenica, on Ibra, around Nova Varosha, Ivanjica, at the monastery of Studenica, etc. Either he wants to invest in wind parks, means he uses wind energy, or solar parks, to use the energy of the sun, he has the least problems with the Ministry of Energy and with the Minister of Energy, whoever he is. He has much bigger problems with other ministries and with local self-government. So, when they're asked for appropriate, I'll say in one word the papers from the Ministry of Agriculture, the water industry, or the "Serbian State", of the "Serbianovod", when they're doing local permits, using permits, it's a problem for whoever wants to invest and to produce electricity in this way in small capacity, when it comes to small hydropower plants that don't endanger the environment, there's no accumulation. It's a very good way to get pounds. That's the first thing. So you have a problem that will remain on the ground. Now I'm going to quote what the minister said, that all those who are now in the process, are doing it as a job, that they are going on anyway, and the ministry is going to help them get their licenses. There's nothing in this law or any other law that's kept the ministry from getting their licenses so far. Whether or not we'll follow it. That is why there are competent committees, therefore there is also the Assembly in general, and very soon it will show who is right, and who disputes the provisions of the laws that can be changed. I don't mind every minister saying -- I want to change the members of this law like this, as long as it's to improve the application of the law. The minister said the changes weren't systemic. The law is systematic, but change is not systematic. That's a pretty thin argument. Whatever system law you have, we have heard that argument, so we have the Law on Nuclear Objects of Serbia, which, fortunately, with joint work and people belonging to the ruling majority and our opposition, is prevented from doing damage. We had a Law on the Protection of the Environment where it was also said that there were no systemic changes that violated legal fluids and Chapter 27, that I'm not talking about laws that aren't from this area. It is therefore important that we have communication and that we have comments from the European Commission. The Minister is absolutely right. She can, and she doesn't have to ask for comments. It must have the opinion of the Government of the Office for European Affairs, but if the law is in progress during the time of entering the Assembly in such a short time that we cannot be able to address the delegation of the European Commission and ask for a comment, then we have a problem. The Committee on European Integration was very clear – tell us whether you consulted or not. And it is said that you are not, which is also legitimate, but it is not legitimate to prevent, due to an insufficient number of hours, from Saturday night to Monday morning, that the Committee on European Integration should address the European Commission, because this is a common benefit. So we did when it was about copyright, and we all benefit from it together, and the ruling majority and opposition, for not jeopardizing what legal assets are. That's what we did when there were other laws. When you communicate with people whose legal assets you want to classify into life in your society, in your country, then it's important that the committee responsible for it has one day to address it. It's being challenged as a law, and that's where I'm going to relate to the problem we have together again. In these five months of this assembly's summoning, 65% of all acts are under emergency procedure. I know very well how difficult it is to communicate with the representatives of the government and take down the "emergency procedure" label and it's easy on the National Assembly website, which is well done by the team that's in charge of the site, with statistics, with numbers, to see that the number was 37, and 32, and 35, and 30. It is our common problem if we feel it is no problem that the Committee on European Integration cannot ask the European Commission to comment. I do not dispute the will of the ministry to specify exactly what is the reason the permit is withdrawn. The will of the ministry, I can think of whether it's applicable or not, but I think it's my obligation, as someone who belongs to the opposition, to tell you that the provisions you've proposed here have not been applied. We will see each other in two months and we will read the stenogram as we read the stenograms from two or three months ago and that it is better now to think about what we get as suggestions, that something is not applicable or that the European Commission's comments are missing, or that it is retroactive. It's not the goal of proving to anyone here that he would personally harm or commend anyone. The aim is to make the provisions of the law that we have in common, which will apply to someone's everyday life, the best possible. This has always been the goal and it is the only context from which I speak and it is the only context from which I have submitted an amendment relating to Article 10. Proposals for changes and additions. In short, the law deals with the fact that you will or already have an energy permit and agreement for a small hydropower plant, for a wind park, for a solar park, and you are in the process, any point of procedure under the previous law, and Article 10 says - the procedures that have begun until the date of entry into force of this law will end under the provisions of this law. This is retroactivity. I know the Assembly can decide most of it to be a retroactive member of 10, but it's not good for anyone to keep it as a provision. It can't be as bad as that provision, being good at the ruling majority, or being less good or bad at opposition. These are topics that are completely insensitive to our party, political, whatever you want, mutual differences or what, as parties, we have as different proposals for a solution in the area. All parties differ greatly here because system law is part of the EU's legal flows. You can hardly have any fundamental difference. I insist that we all think one more time together and get this retroactive provision out of the bill. Whether you adopt my amendment or agree to ambush the board and rephrase it is entirely irrelevant to me. It is important to me that such a provision does not endanger what should not be in any law, which is that the procedure under which someone has started the procedure must be completed by law and by what the data under which the procedure begins. That's the second time I quote to the minister who said, "The acquired rights remain... "that was an explanation why it wasn't retroactive, "... It'll just have to be complemented." Can't both, or acquired rights stay, or something has to change and supplement. No one contests allowing anyone seeking an extension to extend. It can do so under this law, as this can all be the subject of a sublegal act, but it can also be the subject of the law. It's not a dispute, it's a minister's right, as he looks better in the law, but slow retroactivity because it's not as good as the news that will come when the law passes eventually and gets most. Let me finish with the money we're dealing with the guarantees we've been given, as far as Serbiaagas, Galenika and JAT are concerned. Just one sentence about Serbiaagas. I think we've repeated not enough times here why we're actually giving these guarantees. So the difference in the price of gas paid by the company and paid by the citizens is I mean 12 dinars. I'll be corrected by someone who follows me better. That's the difference we all pay out of credit, that is, Serbiagas if he returns, and if he doesn't return, then everyone in the budget. A solution that involves different management of companies and a different price is ahead of us and will be the subject of this Assembly and will be the subject of this government inevitably. I don't have the nerve to say that I shouldn't, for at least two reasons. The first is that I voted for such guarantees, but I have the nerve to say that it is unacceptable for all of us here to present a strategy that there will never be any guarantees again, that in the last four days before New Year's Eve a guarantee for Galenika and Serbiaagas. So it is not disputed that there is no other solution but to seek guarantees, but it is disputed that the public and we all believe that this is not happening. This would not be good for anyone, at least for the ruling majority or the opposition. In the end about the price. I know this isn't essentially the responsibility of the Energy Minister, but it's simply a matter of electricity and people who talk to us, they don't care whether it's the responsibility of the minister or the finance or the energy, and it's a famous instruction from the Ministry of Finance that the VAT, which was raised in October, is applied to the price of electricity from September. I know very well that the Minister has little jurisdiction here, but I believe it is our duty to say that what is said to happen is not happening, i.e. that Elektroprivreda will bring back to the citizens that part of the money difference in VAT. That's not happening in the field. So someone lied somewhere. I repeat, I know it's not the minister's jurisdiction, but I also know that people pay VAT on electricity 20% for September and October. I take it more as an example, because you can't hide it, so there can't be a negative consequence of the retroactive provision of article 10 in amendments and additions, and so it can't be hidden that Serbia will give three more guarantees for Serbia, for Galenika and for JAT, with a sentence that no guarantees will be made anymore. We can't both, and I think it's in the common interest that we're not even trying to hide what's pretty obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9189	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9190	Thank you for your comments, for your discussion. I'd have to answer some of the things you brought out here. To start with the last, from VAT, the Serbian government has made a decision, or the government's conclusion is that this part of the money will certainly be returned, of course, on a proposal from the finance ministry. It is the obligation of Serbia's Elektroprivreda. Since you said it wasn't happening, then I'll be in my inspection and inspection services, because, among other things, we have an energy inspection, and I'll definitely send that inspection to the EPS and see if these things happen, and you'll definitely get information about it. But several times as you spoke, you said it was probably the minister's wish to change the law, so any minister can do it, etc. Maybe that's how it was in the previous period, and maybe the DS ministers were changing laws or changing laws and supplementing laws, but that's not how we do it. At least it's not a practice of the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection. Let me remind you once again, the Energy Act, which is still in force, until the moment we made these changes and additions, there was no possibility of even taking away an energy license. More specifically, to be precise, there was the minister's discretion to do so. I think that, everyone here will agree, is not good, because at the end of the day the result is, what I mentioned several times, 128 energy approvals issued and 63 energy permits, and only 19 small hydropower plants. It's not just about that administration and bureaucracy, which I completely agree that the problem, but, for God's sake, there were other problems. It's absolutely amazing that you don't support the tightening of the conditions, because this is how we want to tighten the conditions. So we want to ban energy licenses and consents from being given to non-solvent ones who can't clearly correct that investment, who take consent and licenses, and who don't do anything within that time limit for which they have an energy license, which is according to the law for three years. I don't mean to say that you support this way of speculation, because I don't think you're doing it, but just look at the law. Today you can't take away anyone's energy license in Serbia, and there are a lot of those who have, and they haven't done anything at all in certain locations. My interest, the government's interest and the Ministry's interest is that we have built objects. That's the reason. When you mention that retroactiveness, just once again to explain, those who have energy permits will, of course, work for three years, plus possibly one. But if they go three years from today and they don't do anything at their location, to talk about small hydroelectric power plants, of course they're going to be deprived of their energy license by changes and additions, that is, by new law. Or are we gonna let them get an energy license for another three years and do nothing? Then what did we do? Therefore, I would not say that it is retroactiveness, it is an attempt to make and introduce order, because you and I will agree, since you are in the Committee on European Integration, that we want to do everything possible to be transparent, to use renewable energy sources and to give Serbia additional amounts of kilowatt hours. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9191	The word is Gordana Komic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9192	If I were going to say-- I don't support the tightening, I would say it, but I didn't. So I've made it very clear what I don't support. I do not support the initiation of proceedings under one regulation by other regulations declaring that they will be completed under another regulation. I don't care how mild or sharp you are. That's a huge difference. When I said the minister was right, and you're right, every minister has a right. This means that the minister who has a member in front of him who says the minister can, he has the right to make a very clear sublegal act, much more stringent than this, if he will, which he can and has the right to request the amendment of this member, of course. But no minister has the right to tell those to whom the law applies - you have begun by one law, and by the other you will end the law. No one slows you down in the introduction of order into a serious area. What we're arguing is your attempt to present this to us as a member without error, which is not retroactive, which is easy to prove that it bothers this law. It's not about my amendment. I repeat, let the committee be made, there is a business procedure and make it clear that all those who do what is right and under the law do not have to supplement anything and that their acquired rights will not be compromised by this law. It's a bad message for a few reasons. One of the key reasons why we asked for the European Commission's comments, and we didn't have time to do that, is to check this out. One of the key reasons, if we don't understand that every negative assessment by the European Commission is our common damage or benefit, every positive benefit, every negative damage, then we don't understand the spirit of European integration. It's the only thing I've insisted on with the amendments and this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9193	The word has a folk MP, Nebojsa Beric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9194	The Honored Chairman, representatives of the Government and representatives of the AP Vojvodina, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, affirming the energy co-operation agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy will allow the implementation of the renewable energy production project, etc. green energy. In particular, it is about the exploitation of the medium-flow hydropotentials of the Drina River and the Ibar River. If we look at the forecast of electricity consumption by 2015, it is not difficult to see the importance of this agreement for the energy stability of the electricity system and our country as a whole. Over the period until 2015, an average annual rate of electricity consumption on Serbia's territory is expected of 0.9% and force of 0.5%. In 2015, the final consumption of electricity will be 31 thousand 195 gigabytes of lessons, and the force of 7,000 megawatts will be carried out. The forecast is based on estimates of Serbia's macroeconomic economic development parameters by 2015. Also, electricity balances by 2015 with the envisaged revitalisation and modernisation in all parts of the electricity system at existing power plants, networks etc. show a trend in continuous growth in electricity consumption. In order to ensure our country's energy stability and secure and quality electricity supply to our citizens, a future lack of electricity can be compensated by imports of electricity or investments in new production capacities. The adoption and validation of this agreement would allow for this very second, the construction of new energy facilities, and thus the strengthening of energy infrastructure. The agreement envisions the construction of a series of hydropower plants at the middle flow of the Drina River, Ibra and Republika Srpska, a total installed power of about 800 megawatts, with the maximum annual electricity production of about 2.5 thousand gigawatts of hours. If it is considered that the cost of construction of a hydropower plant per megawatt is about 2.5m euros, it is calculated that about two billion euros will be directly invested for the construction of this project, which you will agree is a significant investment. Not to mention a number of other positive effects that it brings with it, such as increasing the employment of our workers who will participate in the construction of power plants, the engagement of our industry, construction operations, new technologies, etc. Our economic effect is seen in that the agreement provides for the provision of an incentive electricity price of 155 euros per megawatt hour, for that part of electricity to be exported to the Republic of Italy and which will be paid by the Italian energy corporation throughout the 15-year incentive period, while the Italian side undertakes to buy the total electricity produced for export, which provides for a secure electricity base, which on the other hand implies our financial gain. If the maximum production of 2.5 000 gigawatts per hour is considered in advance, we will come to an account when 50% of the electricity produced would be exported to the Republic of Italy to secure profits at an annual level of around 200m euros. The conclusion of this exposure is that by this agreement, and peopleally speaking, we would have two problems with one blow, which is the lack of electricity and the financial deficit for investing in the energy sector. This is why the SNS Parliament Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9195	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9196	The Honorable President, the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, the Honorable Minister, dear colleagues, I will speak with regard to the times that have elapsed and the diversity of the proposal that we have found in the united debate, I will only talk about one bill, and this is the Law on the Development Fund of the AP Vojvodina. As my colleagues have said, the DS MPs will support this bill's proposal, I would now explain in a few words why. In 2005, the Bank Act was passed which still applies today. Article 5 of that Banks Act allows credit operations to be performed only by business banks and those institutions established by law. At that time, there were several funds in the province that were established and intended to develop the AP Vojvodina, but I would remind you, and you all know that in many local self-governments across Serbia that were then more funds that were intended to develop their own local self-government. In the same law, the transitional provisions gave a deadline in which all the institutions involved in lending until then, and I remind you that until then we had both savings banks and savings and funds founded by the provinces and local self-government, had a deadline in which either to attach themselves to a particular bank or to continue to work as a bank. I remind you, under that law, the Post Office has become a bank. At that time, the Autonomous province of Vojvodina had several initiatives to bridge the way in which the area was arranged. One of these was a proposal to amend the Banks Act to create a basis for the survival of the province's funds and at the same time the funds of local self-government. The second was an attempt to pass then the Law on the Fund for the Development of the AP Vojvodina and the third was an initiative at the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all of which took place between 2006 and 2007, following the adoption of the Banks Act. So it was an initiative to pass a law that would regulate microcredit institutions. Unfortunately, all these initiatives were left without a proper response from the government of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to this problem that the circuit funds had with the Bank Act, I remind you of another fact, that all these funds and in our municipalities, and in the province were founded under the Law on Foundations, Delegations and Funds. It's a law that's more than 20 years old. Two years ago, a new Law on Indemnity was passed in this esteemed home. In fact, the law stopped the old law on foundations, debt and funds and the game of the public debate was carried out on the law in Novi Sad, and it was then turned to attention that if the old law was abolished entirely on foundations, funds and liabilities, many local and regional funds that were registered under this law would become a problem. There is one provision under which the status part of these funds is regulated under the law which, since it has been amended twice since then, the Business Society Act is fully, meaning that the funds remain to operate according to a very archaic law with many concepts that are no longer used in our economic life. For these reasons, it is very important to allow, at least by this law, for the province to receive one development fund that will not have one anachronous form exceeded, on the other hand it will have its own activity which will not be contrary to the Bank Act, because the Bank Act allows other institutions established by the law to deal with lending. This fund for many things and its activity, since it has been talked about its work here, is very similar to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, is indeed not capital, but by activity it is, and only that this fund is not in its work, which is a guarantee. I hope that during the debate in particular and when we decide on the amendments, this text will remain in the integrated text relatively similar to that and that it entered into the procedure, as we can see from the reasons it is the fruit of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9197	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Srdjan Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9198	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable President of the Vojvodine Assembly, I would only, given the time of a few remarks, take note of some things that may not have been on them so far, will primarily talk about the Law on the Development Fund of the AP Vojvodina, and if we analyze some indicators, then we will come to a very easy conclusion, that in Vojvodina, we have about 59 percent of the investments in the Bač County, that in the Sremski District we have about 11 percent of the investments, and in South Banat as one of the most underdeveloped parts of the AP Vojvodina, we have about 28 percent of the investments. I think that there must be conditions in Vojvodina and that all its parts develop evenly and in that sense, it expects that the real management of the fund in the coming period implement a different policy, that this policy encourages the development of South Banat, that we do not come into a situation, that the Kovačica municipality from which I come, which is particularly important for the SNS, that municipality, for me as a citizen from that municipality and in general, for the Roma community that advocates even regional development, that not only can the municipalities of Kovačica withdraw only 0.6% of the total funds from that fund, and that, by the way, the municipal authorities, build one swimming pool that is hundreds of thousands of euros, so that millions of euros can cost that pool and that, at the same time, when that pool in Kovačica is building, the same pool, building houses, the construction of houses, municipal officials, the same way, and all of which is expected to have a single policy in fact, that the same way, in fact that the region. Mr. Kostreš did speak of not being able to be all in Belgrade, however, the fact that somewhere around 20% of total investment is in Novi Sad, tends to be in southern Banat for one question, let us not change one centralisation for another centralised, but give all the environments the same opportunity and have the same chance. There, of course, I can't, President of the Vojvodina Assembly blame you, because I would be dishonest and incorrect if I didn't say that six years ago you initiated certain things in a conversation that we had with you once as Secretary of the Economy, but apparently your coalition partners in the AP Vojvodina didn't understand enough and didn't give any other necessary instructions that this really happened in Vojvodina. On the other hand, I think that one amendment should also be considered, one idea that we have put forward for a different definition of the objectives of the fund, that the fund should not only affect the balanced development of the region, but the even development of economically integrated categories in Vojvodina and define it as a priority when projects are approved, and that I primarily think of people with disabilities, women as a specific group, members of national communities such as Roma, who are the most socially vulnerable in Vojvodina. If we do not take that principle, we will be witnesses in Vojvodina that the figures say that 45 companies dealing with Roma employment and where Roma are their carriers are, and that these 45 companies have the total capital invested by them, no less than around 65,000 euros, and then the question arises whether the place of secretary of work and social affairs in the Vojvodina Executive Council and its salaries are worth as much as investment in the development of the most socially endangered category in the AP Vojvodina. In the end, let me just say, about the Ministry of Energy, you don't have to pay attention to criticisms that aren't well-intentioned. We must make it clear, here in the Assembly, that our coalition partners are voting for these laws at this point, that it means that the SNS, its coalition partners clearly supported one new initiative and that there was not enough power in those headquarters where we spoke, that should have initiated these things and those things to support. What was particularly welcomed by the businessmen I talked to is the fact that you initiated a conversation with all potential investors who wanted to invest in energy, that you shared information with them, that you held a conversation with them, that you accepted advice and that you primarily respected this law the opinion of those people who are the most direct investors who want to invest that money, and that it is really better to talk to them, than to talk to those who want to represent their interests and to manage their money. I'm only going to say one fact that a businessman from Croatia, a Serb who lives in Croatia, has welcomed it and is ready to invest several million euros, not only in these forms of energy exploitation concerning the issues of water use exploitation, as potentials, but also in solar energy and other forms of energy, and that the SNS, that the Roma party here sees a good step in solving the very confusing situation that you have encountered in the ministry. That's why we're going to support a set of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9199	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9200	Dear Mr. President of the Assembly, the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia have the right to know that this government, headed by the SNS today, has offered them the Law on Public Procurement in the morning part of the session, which claims to have savings and to bring a 600m-euro savings, while refusing the DS amendment that would indicate where those 600m euros are going, and already in the afternoon part of the session offers us a new set of borrowings of 200m euros. That reminds me of a story about a host who saves up early in the afternoon when he goes to the market, and then he borrows money from his neighbor at night. Then that split personality is a very unpleasant thing, when you want to save in the morning, and in the afternoon you want to be in debt, in every economy, it leads every household to serious problems with regard to household members towards the host, as well as hosts towards members of the household. What is the message of this 200m-euro debt today? The message is there's no savings. The message is that this government is coming to terms with huge steps in increasing debt and increasing debt. The message is that as there are no ten billion foreign investments, as there is no platform, as there is no degree, because some seem to have bought a diploma for a virtual reality engineer, and some have doctored on stent technology. Everything here is invisible. It's only visible to you. We, the citizens of Serbia, are neither visible these 10 billion, nor are those savings visible. You say, you introduce, I quote you -- order, work and discipline in one sector, where total chaos ruled. There is one historical person who tried that password, it was the motto of his political program, and we know how it ended, but I may not understand why you have such a bad opinion of Mr. Skundric, who is your coalition partner? On the contrary, I have an excellent opinion of him. I think he was a good minister, he worked hard. I've praised him here in the previous government, and I don't think he's done anything wrong at all. But I don't understand why you have such a bad opinion of yourself, because you've been sitting in the government of Mr. Labus, as a counselor, and it's not nice to be criticizing yourself like that now? In addition, you say one very interesting sentence, that the SNS is the headquarters of this government and you take responsibility for everything your coalition partners do. Be careful, I remember very well, not the next day, in May to be an election campaign and say – well, it's not the citizens of Serbia, it's G 17 plus. We wanted to, but they wouldn't let us. You said now, you're the government's headquarters, that's what the citizens of Serbia remembered, that's what MPs of the DS and we remembered. We only ask you to answer questions about the impact and your coalition partners and you. You said that for these 200m euros, we are in debt for just some incredible 8% interest, and we are selling government bonds at 5.2% interest. It would be like if I were to open my wallet now, or you, anyway, and lend you money at a rate of 5.2%, and then go borrow that same money at an interest rate of 8%. I don't think that's what any host in the world does, no host in the environment, so it's not good for us to do it either. You also said that the situation in the economy, especially in the energy sector, is due to the work of the previous government. I don't share your opinion here. Where good luck if it were the work of another government, and much better if it were the result of the government's unhappiness, if that government had worked less, we would have lived much happier today. It is, Serbian citizens, the same government where you had power outage groups before noon from eight to two, one group of electricity, from two to eight in the evening the other group has electricity. It's the same government where you solved energy problems by buying gasoline in two liters of plastic bottles. It is the same government where Tomislav Nikolic, for those who say, the topic, was the vice-president of the federal government, and most of your colleagues today were ministers in the government. The government has not destroyed the energy system, it has destroyed all Serbia and we will not recover from it for long. A year ago, on December 18, 2011, you, Madam Minister, held the next press conference, because I remember very well, and what I don't remember is in the library. What's not in the library, there's in the press clipping, which isn't in the press clipping, I ask Goca Comic, she remembers everything. On 18 December 2011, you held a press conference, where you said the following -- we in the SNS believe that the DS, with that prefix, is very responsible because Serbia is in charge of about six billion euros in just three years. We believe the DS is responsible because Serbia is on the verge of bankruptcy today. We also believe that those who have put us in charge, not that they have put us in charge, but that they have over-indebted us, because Serbia is an over-indebted country. Serbia must no longer be charged with one single cent. I repeat, each euro of debt is a step in Serbia's sunflower. Today, you seem to be making that decisive step with your new assignment. It may be in these words and the reason that there is no maltene in this room of yours from the SNS, except for my Krushevians, whom I have great respect for. When they get back to Kruševac, they know that we're going to be there to talk about some of our local topics, but these others are gone, because when the citizens come home to ask them – wait, wait, wait, did you talk about the task until yesterday and yesterday you sat in session of the Assembly and applauded your minister talking about a new assignment? They've escaped from the O.R. because they can't go back to their seats, when they hear how many duties you're putting together for them and their children, Serbia, and when they see that you actually have two morals, two rhetoric. One rhetoric you stick to when you're in opposition, one morale you stick to when you're in opposition, and when you're in power, you have the morals you preach, but you don't stick to it, you do something completely different. You used to really harshly criticize the government for borrowing, but it looks like an axe that falls into honey doesn't cut wood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9201	Thank you. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9202	Mr. Milivojevic, do you know when you've been in power, or your party? Do you know how many years it's been since then? When you talk about the energy sector and that someone else is responsible for the fact that we don't have new facilities in energy today, we don't have increased energy efficiency, we don't have the potential for renewable energy, so it's not you who mention it, it's you. So, in 12 previous years, Serbia was the only one dealing with electricity trade, it was the only job that you and everyone you dealt with. No object was built. In 12 years, all the buildings in the energy sector could have been completed and we would have been an energy safe state. The president of your party, excuse me, former president, has been talking about leadership in energy all along, and he hasn't done anything about it. So leaving the new government, especially in the energy sector, is just an amazing thing, and it's a particularly amazing story about morality, that you're talking about morality now, so you should, I'm sorry, not to say anything. Don't be angry. So, your party is seriously responsible for the situation in the energy sector, because the laws you've passed, especially in energy, sublegal acts that you haven't passed, which you should've been dealing with, have made it possible to do anything other than build objects here, except that there's order here, except that there's transparency, because in the energy sector where, as you know, big amounts of money, it's very important that everything that's done is very transparent and that it knows exactly what is done and what the priorities are. As far as borrowing is concerned, when you mention it, you've put us in so much debt, you expect some things to be settled in two months. They can't get rid of it in two months. What did you do in the previous period, related to the restructuring of the Serbians, the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, the large systems? I don't think that's what you were doing. You were in debt. We're in business, too. In order to pay for the gas, unfortunately, we also have to be in debt, because we can't do it in such a short time to solve the mess that you've made all these years ago. We have also prepared a restructuring plan for both the EPS and the "Serbiagas", because there are certain things to be done in parallel. It's not easy and simple and it can't be done at once, because what happened in the energy sector, unfortunately, instead of talking about today, about having new investors and having new facilities, we are, unfortunately, talking about new debt and problems in these public enterprises. So I'm not shutting the EPS out of this story either. It's simple, it can't be turned off. I won't be long, it's too late, I believe you'll answer me, and then I'll connect to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9203	Thank you. The word is Mr. Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9204	Ladies and gentlemen, when someone discusses more about these loans and how much interest they are, they must first know that when you want to apply for a loan, you must have your bonus. The credit rating shall be determined on the basis of the traffic that the borrower has. It is determined on the basis of the number of employees, the assets it has, the profits it makes and in the end, how much he was in charge until then. Now you're telling us that it's us who's to blame for the bad credit rating of our public enterprises. You raised your credits, you spent money, and you destroyed everything else. Now I'm going to tell you what the fireman isn't doing. There is no more "Record-Protecting", there is no more Car House "Sumadia", there is no more dairy which is a distribution centre, there is no more "Future-Production" Fireman, there is no more Meat Industry Fireman, there is no more Farm Machine Factory "Morava", there is no more "Moorka" textile factory. Shall I continue? Shall we go to Belgrade? We want to talk about a record in Belgrade? We want to talk about IMT Cancer? We want to talk about the Dragon. That's how much it worked when you're on the promise of six, seven billion dollars or marks, and I don't remember any more about the better life, the promises you made if you changed one regime, on those wings you came. It's all as much in function as it was in function, and now it's no longer in function. Speaking of percentages, one of your colleagues said the difference between the SNS list and DS was 1%. I'm not going into that detail right now. Now it's slightly different, now it's 2.5 but not in percentages, but 2.5 is the difference in popularity between you and us.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9205	The word is Mr. Skundric, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9206	I've been reporting since my name has been mentioned several times. I abstained from taking time and not participating in the debate, but out of respect for those people who did something in the sector, I need to say a few words. I can agree with my colleague, Professor. Mihajlovic, that it wasn't done enough, that it wasn't good enough, but I don't think it's good for the state to say it's worse than it is. We can't come up with a conclusion that nothing has been done in energy in the last 20 years. I'll remind you of something that's been done. Among other things, part of the oil-gas arrangement was realized. The oil industry has been reconstructed. Of the losers, the Oil Industry has become the best company in Serbia as well as in the region. It invested only in part of the 540m-euro reconstruction and a total of about a billion euros. It is expected to be the biggest investor in the next three, four years. Not getting into the details now. I could talk about it a lot more. The real phase of the "Banatski dvor" warehouse has been done and we have come to the realization of the strategic most important and important project. It's about South Stream. (President: Time. Thank you, Mr. Skundrich. Let me just say, I have a personal need. (President: It's been two minutes and 20 seconds.) If I let you... Let me just say one more sentence. Among other things, conditions for reconstruction and reconstruction of the Kostolac thermal power plant were created and conditions were created for investing in a new thermoblock. Not to mention the other reconstructions that were done.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9207	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9208	Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, you may not be able to change the truth, but try to change the truth for you. The truth is, the DS was in power from 2000 to 2003, when your current president and our country announced the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic, and we left power afterwards. (The President: Mr. Millyvoy, it really doesn't make sense what you're saying. I apologize if I offended someone with the truth. Then we were in power from 2007 to 2012. Mrs. Mihajlovic, I don't remember you being in the DS, but you were in Mr. Labus' office. That's what I remember. You weren't like a representative of the DS. The DS didn't participate in the government at the time, so I don't know what continuity you're talking about for 12 years in DS power, at least when it comes to executive power. When we talk about facts and economic indicators, I think Mr. Petar Skundric gave much better answers than I will. I'm just going to tell you that in 2000, we found a land without electricity, without electricity, with sanctions, with plastic gas bottles, and that gas after only two days was at gas stations for all Serbian citizens. We can't erase that time from our memory and we can't forget it. We can't suppress that time. It's just that you're not some new people who got into politics in 2012, and by then you've been hanging on goblets in the bedrooms, you've been people who actively participated in political life, some with badges, some with no badges, some in the then government, and some in another government, some in some other political parties, but you have a continuity of political activity of 22 years. Just because some of you joined in 2012, does not mean that these people were born that year and that we should forget and have amnesia for that period of the 1990s. At least I can't forget it, and probably not the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9209	Thank you. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9210	I won't take much time, but how can I not say a few things? In all this time, to repeat once again, Serbia could have been an exporter of electricity instead of an importer of electricity. In 12 years, in the previous period, once again, electricity facilities could have been built and we wouldn't have talked about any imports of electricity. Now that you mention this year 2000 and the year you found the state, that there was no power, that we had a shut-off, and so on, you're all right. Do you know what the new government did and what you did that moment? By then, "Electroprivred Serbia" had obtained electricity in a direct way from "Electroprivreda Republika Srpska", and from that moment on, since October 2000, a single company was formed, called the EFT, which bought that electricity from the "Electroprivence of Republika Srpska", and then sold that electricity to "Electroprivred Serbia". It couldn't have been done, and if the government hadn't known it then, it wouldn't have approved it, especially the directors of Elektroprivreda. So, you introduced a mediator then and formed a company that was formed on October 8, 2000 in London. These were your financials, DS finance. In 2000, these DS finance companies formed a company and through that company they obtained intermediate electricity from the Republika Srpska Elektroprivreda. That's what you did in 2000. That is why no single facility in Serbia's energy sector has been built all these years.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9211	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9212	Chairman, I think you've allowed too much and respected Ms. Minister and the representatives of the SNS, and we won't be afraid to finish this debate today, because terms such as hoaxes and similar terms open a number of questions that we might be able to discuss. I will not answer to Mr. Arsic in detail to the daily newspaper he started with this morning or the newsletter, as some have called them. While your ratings are growing, unfortunately, the standard of citizens falls rapidly. As your rating grows, Serbia's credit rating has fallen twice on the international market. As your rating grows, inflation is record in European frameworks, and among the first and the world. As your rating falls, Serbian citizens are living harder and harder. It was not so long ago in Serbia's recent history that over 50% were being won in the elections, and citizens received neither five marks. So, Mr. Arsic, don't make the citizens of Serbia happy that way, because I think they've already been there. When it comes to the construction of energy facilities, in that part Mr. Skundric responded in good part to what I wanted to say, it would certainly have been more if we hadn't had to repay the funds of the backlogs, to cover the debts of Jazda and Dafina, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9213	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9214	Mr. President, I will end this discussion with my own announcement and out of respect for the very hard day you've had, especially you, and then the cameramen, the girls who run the stenographic notes. (Dragan Todorovic, from town: And towards me? I don't know if anyone respects you. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Remember me from the Committee, you fool? Thank you for that – you fool, it speaks of you and not of me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9215	Mr. Todorovic, please do not throw the speaker as he speaks and, of course, do not use that kind of offensive expression. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9216	So, Mrs. Mihajlovic, just one thing to explain. Since we didn't start importing electricity and all of a sudden it was for everyone, while you were importing electricity, every house had electricity if it had an aggregate. If she didn't have an aggregate, she had a first group, a second group, a third group and a group exclusion. It was just for the chosen ones. Secondly, to explain to me what you know about that polling board and the Euro Excise Bank and those details about the investigation into the imports of that electricity. If you don't know anything, ask your current coalition partners who are unfortunately not in the O.R., from G17 plus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9217	Mr. Arsic has you registered in the system, but I assume you'll give up. You're not gonna give up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9218	When someone tells me about Jezda and Dafina, I don't know what responsibility I can have in it? Especially those parties I was in back then, they weren't in power. When someone else mentions banks, I remember Agrobanks in one breath. In a little over a year, several thugs robbed 350m euros during your government. When it comes to the famous imports of electricity, 450 million damages, because they bought Mr. Vuk Hamovic and Goran Lazarevic electricity from Bulgaria, they had no one to sell it to, and we had enough so we imported unnecessary electricity and watered our hydroaccumulations. You can't say you've been in power since 2007. Boris Tadic was president of the Republic in 2004. Only a few months after the Republic elections. When you mention more cans and bottles, I can't argue that it's not true, but it's also true now, that a lot less people say it's pouring fuel into its vehicles than it was then. If we look at what's done, what bothers most is that the factories are closed. They were closed when you came to power. How many people are out of work? Once you accept that responsibility. The people gave you a chance, he believed you. You ran the country, we see how. You can't fool him anymore. Maybe some other democratic party, and you're not the current one. That's why you lost the election. That is why even now so criticised Tomislav Nikolic, who is the president of the Republic and his people, obviously did not mind what was happening to him, as much as you resent how you have led the country over the past 12 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9219	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9220	Ladies and gentlemen, I will first say something about the Development Fund. I'm the only one who voted not to put this on the agenda, and I live in Vojvodina. The reason for this is for a little hypocritical policy, not for you personally, but for the duchy government and Bojan Pajtic. Less than a month ago, it was claimed here that the Vojvodina Development Bank was one capital thing for the Vojvodina government, for Vojvodina, that it was on giant feet, stable, that the plasmas were stable, etc., that it should not be touched, that the offer offered at that time by the Ministry of Finance to take over the bank in the manner in which Agrobank was taken over, that this offer was not good, etc. etc. No matter how much I didn't vote for it to be on the agenda, I'm going to vote that Vojvodina has its own development fund, but I'm afraid I'm going to be fooled. I mean the Vojvodina Development Fund, and those who rule in Novi Sad, the duchy government, not you personally think it's Bojan Pajtic's development fund. In this dilemma, I will still vote for the Vojvodina Development Fund, regardless of which it will most likely be abused in the same way that the Vojvodina Development Bank has been abused for the capital investment fund and in the same way as the Vojvodina Development Bank has been abused. Says one wise man, who makes one mistake and doesn't correct it, has made another mistake. In doing so, I don't think you've made a personal mistake, but it has been made by the Provincial Government, that you were the only president of the Assembly to propose one law, as an authorised representative of the promoter, and that you were here and in this capacity talking about the Vojvodina Development Bank without knowing that the agreement between the Prime Minister of the Province would fall, most likely the finance minister. Given the state of the Vojvodine Development Bank, which you probably didn't know until the end, and of course we don't know it either. For this reason, you tried to defend what could not be defended, and you made a mistake, because those who represented the view that Vojvodina Development Bank was stable were not a solution to the problem, but an integral part of the problem. What's going to happen to the losses at Vojvodina Development Bank, we can't know that. As far as we know, there are 110m euros in secured deposits and 100m unsecured deposits. Therefore, it is likely that the capital of the Vojvodina Development Bank will pump into the Vojvodina Development Fund, that the Vojvodina Development Fund will be filled in such a way that some eight billion charters of value will still be broadcast, in order to resolve partial losses in the Vojvodina Development Bank. Then they'll join another bank. This other bank will get an empty shell, and some losses must be recovered, and the Vojvodina Development Fund will get 18 billion so that the government of Vojvodina, headed by Bojan Pajtic, can continue to play investment. Who's going to be responsible for an unprecedented robbery that's just a robbery of Agrobanks? It remains to be seen. What's funded by the Vojvodina Development Bank and the Capital Investment Fund will remain a secret. I carried out the funding of various assholes, chickens, worth hundreds of euros. It's an investigation case, it's not a subject for us, but I'm afraid for some political reason, for some peace in the house, it'll remain a secret, that we'll never know the real truth where the money from the Vojvodine Development Bank went and why that crime, apparently, is not sanctioned. As for the Vojvodina Development Fund, I will support it, but like Mr. Shane, I ask that this Fund be decentralised. It's almost amazing that I only get 10% of the total investment. So that third one will most likely develop into the Vojvodina Development Fund. Vojvodina should also be decentralised, in a way that needs to decentralised Serbia, so it is decentralised in three regions, that the regions are decentralised at the level of the municipality and that it knows exactly how much it receives from the Capital Investment Fund, from the Vojvodina Development Fund, so that there is no mutual exploitation of one part of Vojvodina, at the expense of another part. So, I'm afraid we'll cover all these minuses by getting rid of people, paying people who are often hungry, and lying in their rooms with their hungry children. So, no one is going to process anything, and we're going to close the Javazluk, the unprecedented riding of bankers and politicians who happened, not only at Vojvodina Development Bank, but also in Agrobanka. Just the government that was there, it ruled until recently in Serbia and we came into a situation, that in a rich country with the most fertile land, living poor and hungry people, Serbia almost became Somalia, the hunger strike in Serbia is no longer a protest phenomenon but a universal phenomenon. As for the Energy Act, I'm afraid, thanks to some of my former colleagues who spoke from the former regime that we were lucky. Whoever ran the country, we did well. As far as the law is concerned, it has already been stated that the energy licenses that are objecting here have been given to the former director of NIS, former energy minister, also former energy minister. Those were some three wind-park power licenses. And, lo and behold, a former financial director of the former regime's party also appeared, so MK, who also received a wind park license. It's the same one that has a 48-metre yacht, the former financial director of the former regime's party. It's the same one that advocates the quick layoff of workers. This yacht, em bought, em made sugar foam, em bought three sugars for three euros, but the tax on this yacht does not pay in Serbia, but is paid elsewhere. So much for honesty, but to continue with the energy licenses, they can't be resold, I understand that, but the companies that have these energy permits can be resold and they can be the subject of trade. Whether you're reselling your license or the company got a license and reselled it, it remains to be seen what will be done. I don't think that investment is being prevented by speeding someone up that they have to start an investment they've been authorised to start within three years. I don't see anything retroactive about it. If you have been given permission to build a house, you cannot avoid some new law speeding up your construction and saying – it is worth three years. If you do not start this construction, you will no longer have permission. It's in some segments of building almost normal stuff. What I like about energy, and I combine it with agriculture, I think it's this country's developmental chance. But I'd like to make a combination. This combination should consist of a combination of farms, panels, panels and gas generators, to produce from the sun, wind, water flows, biomass, thermal springs, biogas and waste production, which we have also forgotten, that this type of renewable energy should be represented in agriculture through a combination that I have already mentioned. The second combination to be mentioned is greenhouse, vegetables plus panels, which should also bring income to farmers, and that income is complemented and how it makes cheaper vegetables through energy production. Also, mini hydrothermia with ponds are a far more cost-effective thing than just mini hydrothermia. It will be my contribution, my People's Peasants' Party to what we see in the Energy Act, in amendments, in various regulations, and we insist that our farmers, farmers, too, can get energy permits and get proper documentation to raise panels on their farms, build gas generators, make greenhouses with panels and make, especially in these lower parts of western Serbia, make water streams of hydrogen with ponds and thus increase their incomes and thus make some development of these passive areas. As for not those dear investors, I haven't seen what they've invested, and I've already shown one. By the way, let me move on to these guarantees. There's a lot of talk here. It's been said that with these guarantees, the government is in charge. Just to remind you that these guarantees are covered by the minuses made by the former regime party in these public enterprises. It's an extorted step to cover some of the minus that came up earlier. Just to remind myself that the minus that the state currently has is, sometime by the end of 2013, thanks to the former regime's foreigners, plus the economy, plus the citizens, that this debt will reach 50 billion euros and we are now listening to these parables and stories and stories of those who put us to death, as they worried about this debt that needs to be recovered and who have made about 200 million. I don't know what they're gonna do when they start arresting those energy tycoons of theirs soon. The codes of guarantees they forget that we have provided guarantees and that this assembly has provided guarantees for their leaders, and I claim that this party no longer cooperates with tycoons. I say quite responsibly, their party now runs the tycoon. The man who made that bridge to translate the thirsty across the water, which cost me no idea how much it cost or what it would be invested in, and we don't even know how much it would be invested. Now. A little at the end and who was when the government was. The host here is mentioned that something there, a household policy, and to me the former regime resembles a host who borrowed money from neighbors, to buy goods from neighbors for the same money, and to him only the debts remain. So that's where they got us. As far as graduation is concerned, virtual or not, I have to answer that not everyone can study for seven, eight years, as certain agricultural experts, who were disturbed by titles at the Faculty of Agriculture, busts, so they asked for a pig or donkey to be placed there. Also, I must say, forgetfulness is not a good thing. This is where it's about the '90s. I have to remind you, and I find it very difficult that the radicals were not only in Milosevic's government. I have to remind you of Gjorge Perisic, I think that's what the deceased was called, that he was a member of the federal government and a member of the DS. I think there were two members of the DS in that government. I must also remind myself that in that government of the 1990s, there was Mr. Radulovic in the Republic government, who later did something with the C market and is not there. I don't know what else is said here. Workers were mentioned, of the 250,000 workers from the Belgrade ring, the working ring, remained to work only 20,000, the last energy potential. Those who boast of the great imports of energy, so we weren't in the dark, but we were therefore in debt to pay for that energy to some tycoon friends of theirs, so, last of some hydro potential, here's Mr. Skundric to correct me, it was made in a turn in Pirot in 1989, if I remember correctly. Finally, to say that I'm not satisfied with the fight against corruption, but for another reason, not as a party of the former regime, I think it's getting a little bit cleaned up, that it needs to be cleaned up, that all of Serbia is corrupt, that it needs to be explored more, two thousand people. When my field is weeded, then I use the total and then the weeds are cut in a row, from the greatest to the smallest, because even the smallest one will one day become great. That's how you keep production. Finally, to say that the former regime was worse than tsunamis, worse than any elemental accident, it comes and goes, and this lasted ten to twelve years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9221	Mr. Milivojevic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9222	First Mr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9223	Mr. Veselinović according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9224	Mr. Speaker, please protect the dignity of the National Assembly on the basis of Article 107, 106, however you wish, and thus protect the MP. Here, in the worst possible way, individual political parties are insulted. I don't know if you've been listening very carefully to a speech that the president of the political party, the largest opposition, calls the tycoon. He also spoke of Mr. Bojan Pitiæ, who is not present here and cannot answer him. Please, if you do not do this on purpose, that this way of addressing and this way of demeaning the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is interrupted in order to end this meeting correctly and not to enter this way of working and this way of addressing the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9225	We have another Mr. Jovanovic reported and I hope we will end up in a normal tone of this debate. I'm sorry that today was, let me say, different MPs who during the debate used a little more difficult arguments and a little harder words. That's what I wanted to attribute to the heat of political struggle. I don't think anyone wanted to insult anyone on purpose. I also ask that if anyone thinks in such a way that everyone who thinks like that gives up such ideas. I always support every call and also give this invitation to all MPs that, not only today at the end of the debate, but also in all future sessions, they refrain from addressing MPs who could in any way be seen as offensive. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9226	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, today we have four ratifications on the agenda of the task and this one supported by the DS, as regards the South Stream and the financing of the project. We feel it is necessary, and for these three we can say that it is a complete inconsistencies of the government and the ruling majority, because we had here a month ago Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, we had a mantra about what the previous government had done, what it had ruined, was in debt under the worst conditions of 4.8 to 5.8% interest. Today, we have a proposal that three public companies, "Srbigas", "Galenika" and "JAT", are in debt for a total of 190m euros, with the same interest between 8% and 9%. At the very least, it is inconsistencies and certainly none of that turnaround, nothing since the stabilisation of financing in the Republic of Serbia, none of the activities taken by the gentleman concerned. It's just an ordinary political flossula, a demagogy, whatever we can call it. What has certainly been changed, which is trust in the state of Serbia, and it is expressed through these interest rates. Also, citizens lose trust and patience. What they will judge and judge in the next election and the next time they have a chance to plead, not through these party newspapers and tabloids, but in the next election, is their own salary and what they can buy for that salary, and that is certainly less than they could last year and a year before that. Inflation is, I'll remind you, over 13%. Unemployment has reached 30%, and you can't hear it in the tabloids, and you can't read it. It's the truth that's being silenced. It's not the sin of the last government, it's the sin of this government. You took responsibility. You need to exercise authority because you have full power capacity. You're the headquarters, and you don't have to transfer responsibility to the last government. The Democratic Party is an opposition. We're going to propose constructive proposals or we're going to criticise what's not right. You can't stop us from doing this, but don't take responsibility for what you're doing. That's not right. I will refer to ratification of the energy agreement with Italy, an interstate agreement between the Ministry of Mining and Energy and the Ministry of Economy of Italy. It was signed in 2009. Meanwhile, there were a number of meetings that discussed annexes that were later signed. There have been various discussions from the MPs today in the room about this point. There were those who criticized this agreement. I'm going to look at this agreement from a new angle, and it's from a citizen's corner, that is, as a representative of citizens from the territory of the Raski District from which it comes. I simply think that this topic is very important for the citizens of this area, because for several years now, there have been various stories, there are various discussions, there are stands on the subject of these projects. I think it is very important for the citizens of this region to say what is true about this agreement. An incentive price of 155 euros per megawatt of time is a good price. That's a good aspect of this agreement. Also, 49% of the ownership of EPS and the state of Serbia, with this price in mind. That's also a good thing. What's being asked as a question, which is two aspects of this project. If we consider that between Raška and Kraljev there will be 10 hydropower plants, streams, a total force of 117 megawatts, two aspects that are very important, and that is what the environmental impact study will say. That's what I'm asking you, Madam Minister. When will the impact study be done? A preliminary study has been done and she says the project will not affect at that stage. When will the study begin? Is there any dynamics? Also, it is very important whether it will affect the water supply of mentioned settlements, whether it will affect other ecological aspects, whether the water streams of rivers, fauna, will animal organisms be threatened, will there be significant changes on the Ibar River? What is the second aspect, which is very important for the people of Rasca, Usce, is the King's way of benefiting from this project. I'll remind you, the water business tax is the Republic's income. The citizens of the area remain only jobs that are very few in these projects. So a very small number of workers will be employed in hydroelectric power plants. There is serious potential in the engagement of construction operations when works are carried out, but the question arises – is the government of the Republic of Serbia considering how much, in some ways, the money that will be paid back? According to this agreement, the annex that we have, it is said that the total installed force of 117 megawatts will mean 480 gigawatts of hours of annual electricity. At the prices set out in the agreement, this means some 70m in ideal conditions for the euro. If these are not ideal conditions, how much is less and how much of it can be held back, that is, to return to areas that will surely be devastated in some way by these projects? The Democratic Party will support the agreement on financing the South. The other agreements, especially those concerning new responsibilities, will not be certain, because we do not believe that these are the proposals that the Government has promised during its assembly, or power. These aren't the ideas you suggested in the election campaign. This is not what the Serbian citizens gave you their votes for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9227	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9228	Thank you. I'll just be brief about this environmental impact assessment. So, 10 hydropower plants between Raska and the Kings. As you know, after this ratification, when the agreement is ratified here, there is a second round of ratification in the Italian Parliament. After that, we can talk about making and assessing environmental impacts. Of course, the joint venture has been formed, some of the advances they certainly do now, but the impact assessment itself, of course, is being issued by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, i.e. energy, development and environmental protection. When we get a request from that joint venture that's formed, that's when the study will begin.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9230	I thank you for your response, and I hope you will pay attention to this study. It's very important for the citizens of the area. In particular, I ask you on behalf of these citizens to pay particular attention to this second aspect, which concerns this economic work and the return of funds in these areas, because in informal talks conducted by the previous government headed by Mr Skundric, a serious percentage has been discussed which has returned to those areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-26-0.u9231	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96, want the word. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a joint principle and uniform search. We're finishing work for today and continuing work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m.
