ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7367	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 80 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7368	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the 20th of February of the current year, I asked the question in writing, and I received an answer to that question on March 6th of this year. But some representatives of the local self-government addressed that answer to my written parliamentary question was not an official enough document, so the previous mayor of the city of Subotica addressed, at the beginning of June 4th of this year, at the time, the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, with a request to give an opinion on the application of certain provisions of the Law on Community Works, which the previous assembly of the National Assembly adopted at the end of November, more specifically on 22 November of last year. Since the answer to this question has not reached the day of today, and they expect it, I have been forced to address and use this mechanism after several unsuccessful phone conversations, to ask the parliamentary question, now to the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, since the detour of communal activity under the new Ministry Act, which we adopted in the middle of this year, belongs to the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism. I ask that certain provisions of the Law on municipal activities be applied to the request for an opinion on: First, what does the concept of funeral services cover, given that Article 2 paragraph 1 of this Law on municipal activities, other than the management of cemeteries and funeral services, is a communal activity? However, Article 3 paragraph 1 of this Act provides only a definition of the management of cemeteries, not the definition of funeral services, so this remains unarranged. What is covered by the concept of burial, since the Law on Community Works is not given the definition of burial, while according to the applicable Law on Funerals and Cemeteries, Article 3 paragraph 2 was given as the burial of remains died, i.e. the burning of remains and the leaving of ashes in certain places and other actions taken to that end. It is unclear what this concept of "other actions" is about to take place. This issue is of paramount importance in order to determine precisely which funeral-related jobs may, in accordance with Article 5(2) of the said Law on municipal activities, be carried out exclusively by a public utility company and a company in which the majority is owned by at least 51% of the Republic of Serbia or the city, which can be carried out by other companies, entrepreneurs and other business entities. Furthermore, what does the term "registration and maintenance of cemeteries" cover in terms of the Law on Community Works, especially in the light of Article 5(3) of that said Law? Does this provision apply only to those cemeteries owned by cities or cemeteries owned by churches or religious communities? If it refers to cemeteries owned by churches or religious communities, how are these jobs entrusted? What are the tasks of editing and maintaining cemeteries, specifically, that can be entrusted to a church or a religious community? Could the cemetery owned by churches and religious communities have been exclusively mentioned by a public-communal company or a company in which the majority owner of at least 51% of the Republic of Serbia or the city or city or burial can be performed by other companies, entrepreneurs and other business entities? This is extremely important, to get an answer as soon as possible, so that these doubts can be resolved. During these partially unsuccessful phone conversations, I received information that no sublegal acts were yet required for the application of the law, which was passed at the end of November of last year. My question is addressed to the ministry whose work is communal activity, so construction and urbanism, when we can expect the adoption of necessary sublegal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7369	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7370	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer the first question to the Minister of Justice, Mr Selakovic. Since the minister of justice said yesterday that Mr Miroslav Miskovic had participated in several governments so far, I ask the minister of justice – which governments did he specifically mean? Did Mr. Miroslav Miskovic have certain ministers in some previous governments under his control, for which we find out, in any way from the media, from the statements of individual members of the government, which he paid from 30 to 50 000 euros, and whether Miroslav Miskovic has at the same time funded certain political parties? This MP club asks it with a clean cheek, since we are sure that no investigation that will ever be opened will show that Miroslav Miskovic has funded neither DHSS nor SPO. My second question is to direct the Minister of Energy. In what way will the state now and in what way will the state in future subsidise renewable energy sources? I mean wind parks. Has the state defined by how many percent of renewable energy sources will participate in Serbia's total electricity production? I am asking first of all because of the ministry's latest announcement that the guaranteed price of 9.5 euros per kilowatt will be dropped to 9.3 euros, which is why the association of investors in wind parks sent out, announced and sent a statement stating that such a price is not stimulating and would endanger the construction of wind parks in Serbia. In this regard, I have to ask the minister – on the basis of which criteria has it been established that the price should be reduced by exactly that much, so by 0.2 euros? For the Minister of Economy, I also have one short question, which is how much tax revenue is exactly from value added tax, counting on the recent VAT increase collected, how much for the same period during 2011, as for the period 2010, 2009 and 2008? This is what I'm asking for because DHSS has already, and even now, opposed to raising that tax. My last question was addressed to the Minister of Health. Namely, the Management Board of the House of Health Ćićivac submitted on a proposal to amend and supplement the Regulation on the near conditions for performing health work in health institutions and other forms of health care, and according to which the Regulation is provided and what is in it, I will quote – in general dentistry there is one doctor of dentistry and one dental nurse technician with medium professional training and this on 10,000 inhabitants. I ask the question of ministerial health – are they and why are all those municipalities that count below 10,000 people this way? Why don't they have the right to one of those dentists? This would mean that the adult population in such environments of less than 8,000 inhabitants does not clearly need dental health care, which is otherwise covered by compulsory health insurance. Also, my additional question for the health minister is – when will this lack of the said regulation, which I quoted, so that citizens of smaller municipalities would not be threatened, or that certain municipalities that number less than 10,000 people, would not be discriminated against? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7371	The word has a folk MP, Neven Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7372	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will draw attention to an unexplainable situation that we have not wrongly given to in this House, but it seems to me that the government has not been able to pay enough attention to this problem, I suppose, with justification, given the difficult situation in which Serbia was in the previous period. The issue is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Mr Goran Knezevic, and concerns one of Serbia's most important strategic agricultural products, corn. He's not just that, he's corn and he's very everyday, a frequent set of groceries on family tables in Serbia. It is not only direct consumption, but also through the milk and meat of the animals that feed it. Given all this, I must admit that I was quite shocked when I read in the paper that about 60% of Serbian corn yields were contaminated by aflatoxin, the most famous and most carcinogenic compound, which can be found in food for humans and animals. The effect of bringing this matter in is also causing a liver cancer. What I was able to learn was that aflatoxin is a dance that is caused by the direct consequence of the drought in which Serbia was in this period, but Serbia is not the only country in the region facing this problem. Fortunately, I received a response from the government through the media and through a statement by Mr. Nenad Katanic, the head of agricultural inspection at the Ministry of Agriculture, who said and denied this information, and I was very relieved. He said there are only 7% contaminated corn in Serbia and that the SGS Serbia analysis is completely invalid, because their samples, because the samples are those based on which they ran the analysis, are not representative. Given the contradiction of this data, I tried to reach Mr. Ukrupina, to ask him – what are the analyses, which are the samples on which they analyzed? I failed because Mr Ukrupin did not want this issue to be politicised, but only said he was behind all the data Serbia's SGS has come to. It is clear that neither I nor my MP group, or the JS parliamentary group, wants to politicise the issue and that it is not a political issue, but the problem is not a clear situation, however, in which Serbia is currently located. I just want to ask Mr. Knezevic, first of all, as a concerned citizen, to provide final information to the public and ask him as a member of the Parliament, to deliver appropriate statements to all committees in charge of these issues, so that we can carry out one of the most important parliamentary functions, which is the monitoring of the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7373	National MP Radmil Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7374	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in the election campaign of all parties that make up the government of the Republic of Serbia today, promised a better standard of citizens, fewer poor people and greater employment. Facts in these six months show exactly the opposite, today citizens in this country live far worse than six months ago. We have a lot of inflation and every day 353 people lose their jobs in this country, which is over 10,000 per month. Also, all parties promised both departementisation and depolitisation. The facts also show that they were just pre-election promises. The basic condition for someone to be in office in this country, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia sees, is just a party booklet. We had a chance to see when a senior SNS official was appointed to be governor of the NBS, when a man who had experience in the roasting and party books of SNS was appointed as the director of PTT when the director of the "Serbigas" was appointed. Such practice is carried out to the local level. At one of the previous meetings of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the heads of administrative districts were appointed, contrary to the Law on State Servants. Regardless of the fact that in January of this year a competition was launched for the county's chiefs, where conditions were prescribed in accordance with the Law on Civil Servants and the Systematization of Jobs, which is nine years of work experience in the profession, the seventh degree of professional training and passed a state exam for work in state authorities, the Government of the Republic of Serbia appointed the district chiefs, some for a period of five years, some for a short period, on the proposal of Justice Minister Selakovic. In this way, a man has been appointed head of the district that does not meet the law of the prescribed conditions. In fact, there are no nine years of working hours in the profession, seventh degree and passed a state exam. Given that the Government of the Republic of Serbia did so on a proposal from the minister of justice, which is obliged to know the Law on Civil Servants, because it is under the Law on Civil Servants that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should make a proposal for the head of the district. I would like to ask the following question to Mr Selakovic – all the district chiefs in the previous cabinet session, have the conditions of the Law on Civil Servants and the Systematization of Jobs met? Did they finish the seventh degree of professional training? How many years of work experience do they have in their profession? Do they have a passed exam for working in state authorities? Starting with the assumption that Prime Minister Ivica Dacic and Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic did not know at the cabinet's session that they were voting for district chiefs who did not meet the requirements, I would also like to ask them the next question. If it wasn't enough that Mr. Selakovic supports right-wing organisations, those who make lists of undesirable NGOs and citizens in this country, if it wasn't enough to join and support at a time when it was banned, in front of the National Assembly, is it enough for the prime minister and first vice president of the government to propose Mr. Selakovic's resolution, because he doesn't know the law he's responsible for? What else do we need to expect and what should Minister Selakovic do yet, to show that he is unable to perform the function he is assigned to? You will agree that both the prime minister and the first deputy prime minister of the government, when appointed, have promised to take down ministers who are doing their job badly. We believe and therefore want an answer from the prime minister and first vice president – when will this assembly be on the agenda for the resolution of Mr Selakovic, because he does not know the law for which he is in charge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7375	National MP Slavica Saveljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7376	Thank you. I'll be real quick. My question concerns the minister in charge of the area of social policy. This is what I was talking about on the board of directors, but I have to ask the Minister. The issue concerns the future status of sociologists in social protection. Since the law, which was passed in 2011, this profession recognises the role of professional workers. Sociologists in social protection in the main work at social work centres. They are not almost available in other institutions and they do not represent a number of categories, but they represent a significant resource. However, the new rules on the licensing of professional workers are not provided for sociologists to be in the licensing process. I ask – why is this profession discriminated against in the area of social protection, and why, if such a rule is passed, will a regulation be introduced that is contrary to the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7377	Thank you. Dr. Slobodan Samardzic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7378	Dear People's MPs, Parliament Speaker, Serbia opened two border crossings to Kosovo a few days ago, but did not get a date for EU accession talks. Prior to last night, the EU General Affairs Alliance concluded that in the first half of 2013 accession talks will be proposed if Serbia shows sufficient progress, they say, in dialogue with Pristina. So, a formulation that means nothing and means a lot at the same time. In addition, these conclusions give a list of demands to Serbia, which it needs to meet to join the proposal for the start of negotiations. That list is pretty big. We can also interpret it as conditions or perhaps new conditions, various, small, technical conditions that ultimately prove to be a real political condition for Serbia's EU accession. We don't just have the things that we're used to applying the agreements, that we should continue the dialogue on the points that are foreseen, etc. This is where Serbia is asked to start disassembling its structures in Kosovo. A clear financing of services provided by Serbia to Kosovo's population is required. There's a lot of other things to look for. Therefore, it is quite clear which demands Serbia is facing to get the opportunity to think about whether the issue will open or not. I would add to that the German Foreign Minister's statement, hours before the conclusions were adopted, where our Brussels reporter said in a microphone that Serbia must take care of what the EU particularly cares about, which is the principle of territorial integrity. Telling it to our reporter and talking to the public of Serbia with such a sentence is cynical, at the very least. We know that Germany plays a leading role in these talks within the Council. She has a list of seven requirements that the president of the CDU faction made several months ago to our officials. At the same time, the minister's advice, when it discusses opening the unfortunate date for negotiations, will take care of those points in Germany. So, we are faced with a very vague EU demand, a requirement that can mean that conditions on things that are not decidently stated in these conclusions are. The basic issue for Serbia's entire public is how long will Serbia go to the EU as a sheep for a haircut? That's what we really need to set up, because the state, the government, has to be set up, and that's the request for an explanation that I want to give right now. It must be put before the public and, to all of us, a clear attitude and a clear bottom line as far as the Government can go in these uncertain processes. We are on the verge of handing over one piece of our territory and accepting the principle that the German Foreign Minister pointed out to us without being worthy of a date for the start of accession negotiations. If these negotiations were to begin one day, from which we are far from light years away, they would probably last at least as long as Turkish negotiations last, which means from here to eternity. I think it's clear to all those who love to follow this process, and above all it's clear to the members of the government. So, it needs the public of Serbia, Serbia as a whole, to clearly state what it will do and what it will do in this so-called. the negotiations and these conditions that are constantly swarming in front of our eyes, and we are also constantly making concessions. Two new crossings will be opened soon, then two new crossings will be opened, and then we will accept customs duties and imposing on Serbs from Kosovo on Kosovo's personal cards, etc., and we will keep saying that we do not have to recognise Kosovo, and the EU will say that one day, if and then, if so, those negotiations will open. It is high time for the government to come to the public with a clear view of this issue and that requires it before this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7379	The word is by MP Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7380	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to ask the question of the Minister of Culture, since it is probably known to you and the general public that, apart from Guca and Exite, we have another festival, which is Nisville. It's a jazz music festival in Nis. Next year it will be 30 years as the festival lives and works. What matters is that we know that in a few nights, 15 thousand visitors pass through the festival and that part is paid for tickets. About 100,000 people through follow-up programs that are free of charge attend, see and enjoy jazz. What's important is knowing that students and students always have privileges. In last year's issue of the magazine "New York" that comes out in Brussels and represents a note, I say, of artistic Europe, an article entitled "Nishville - the European Face of Serbia" came out. I think we should do a little push between Guca and Egzit, two renowned festivals, but first of all two entertainment festivals, and Nisville which is a festival of artistic music. Please help with the authority of the Minister of Culture to help with representatives of the city of Nis, the organizers of the festival, to keep the festival, as 30 jubilee, in an even better light and remain the tradition of southern Serbia known for its good music, and in this case by artistic music. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7381	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to ask the question of Justice Minister Selakovic, is the November organisation registered as political parties, which in their programme tends to right-wing political definition, if they are registered as NGOs and are not the primary goal of dealing with politics, have the right to express their political views? That's the first question. The second question concerns the privatisation of Sartida. I refer this question to the First Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Defence, Mr. Vucic, whose request was the case on the bankruptcy of Sartida, transferred from the Trade Court to the Trade Court in Belgrade, since the Trade Court in Pozarevec was in charge of meat, were other offers during the privatisation of Sartida and did individual Deputy Prime Ministers influence the bankruptcy judge to be elected "U.S. Steel" as a buyer of the "Sardida" in bankruptcy at the time of "Sablje"?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7383	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Aleksandar Čotric, Natasa Vukovic, Tamara Tripic, Bozidar Djelic and Dejan Radenkovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, on the occasion of the search in particular on the proposals of the law referred to in points 14, 15 and 16 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry, Mr Verica Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government and Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, Health Minister, called on the sittings to attend and Vlajko Senić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Business, Zorica Pavlovic, Assistant Minister of the Ministry of Health and Aleksandar Kocic, adviser at the Ministry of Finance and Business, at the Public Debt Administration. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail on the 14th item of the agenda – the proposal for the Law on the Download of Obligations to Health Institutions according to the VEDROGERIUMS on the basis of the purchase of medicinal products and medical materials and the conversion of those obligations into a public debt of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic on the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Milica Radovic, in writing, withdrew the amendments they submitted together to Article 4. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7384	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the first of three extremely important laws to regulate, on a proposal from the government, the taking of obligations of health institutions to large-scale drugs. What is the task of this law is to remove on the one hand these accumulated delays, accumulated debt from health institutions, and on the other hand to enable their work, and to remove the possibility of such debts being made in the future. The bill came to the Assembly on December 6th, and you, somewhere, seemed to me, in early October, along with the finance minister, had negotiations with representatives from the field of health. It's been practically three months. Our amendment only asked for, if we're already turning some debt into public debt, three months was enough to see what a list of debtors and a list of all those institutions that made those debts. Of course, you refused the amendment and said it would all be done in some period that comes after the law was passed. It is very unusual for the state of Serbia to assume certain obligations and convert certain obligations into public debt, without first knowing who it is and how much it owes. In the principle debate, you said that no one took that money home, that those funds that were spent on drugs, and that thanks to these funds, which the health institutions had done, had done something beyond the Fund's budget, saved many people's lives. That's certainly true, but what's the problem? This will only solve the problem at the moment, but this process will create conditions to continue in the future. There is no limit not to continue with the delay. What's he saying for that? In addition to that, it says that these are not the only debts, it also owes the Republic Institute for issued prescription drugs, and they say their debt is 17 billion. In the 2013 budget proposal, the Institute says they do not have the resources for medicines, and of course, the price of the drug is expected to rise by 20%, as the euro's accounting value is corrected. The import component is also very pronounced in domestic medicines, so it will also collect domestic medicines. The Institute clearly says in its draft budget that they owe 17 billion and that they only have until June, which means they don't have enough money. In a situation where the budget deficit at all levels is present, the republican budget has a deficit of 130 – 140 billion at this time. Only the Fund doesn't have any deficits, at least not recognized. The assembly adopted in voting day, and we were, of course, against that budget, the budget of the Republic Institute that predicts that the food costs in 2013 will be 5% higher than in 2012, at the time when the average inflation next year will be 11%. Only 5% more than this year will be allocated to food for patients. For energy, only 7% higher. No funds are provided for doctors you signed as a ministry or for your predecessor, not important, but not foreseen, under the contract the Ministry signed with the Fund, funds for the salaries of 700 doctors of medicine, 604 nurses, 280 health workers. No salaries are provided for the replacement of all those doctors who will go to specializations and subspecies. This only adds that these delays will continue, that this problem will only solve the problem at the moment, but that from month to month will continue and that with this policy, turning everything into a public debt, we will have very quickly on the agenda a new law that will turn some new debt into a public debt. There's no limit, and you didn't do anything to solve key health problems. You have proposed three laws, but in our deep conviction these are not key health problems. These are some of the problems, but you haven't solved the problems in general, and the problems in health care will get bigger and bigger from month to month.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7385	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7386	Dear Chairman, in the debate in principle, I have asked the health minister a question in the spirit of this amendment. In my view, it is quite logical that if MPs vote to take a certain debt and turn it into a public debt, i.e. the debt of all citizens, that at least they know what is the debt and who is the debt to. We know that the debt to large drugstores and drug suppliers, but we don't know who made the debt, since the Minister of Health said in the opening statement that there are many health institutions that haven't made the debt, but there are certain that there are other health institutions that were quite irresponsible. Also, the position and the wholesaler and drug suppliers are not unique. The "Unemuk", "Velefarm" and "Serbolek" went into bankruptcy for these reasons. Now the question is whether they will be able to recover from bankruptcy and will be able to stand on their feet after paying off the debts they face, but on the other hand, we have a situation where Actavis and Jugoridia have fully charged their claims. In fact, this amendment requires that the information that we should have had on the basis of this bill be obtained, because the basic question is, when you take on some debt, how did the debt come into being, who made the debt, and why did he make the debt? For my very own incomprehensible reasons, it is somehow being placed as some special state secret and then based on this secret and hidden information in the voting day MPs should vote for this law. That's why our parliamentary group's position is to understand the position of mutual debt and claims, so that maybe we can reason differently about this law if we had this data, but we just don't have that data. We do not understand why they are hiding from the public, which is why they are hiding from Serbian citizens, and Serbian citizens are due to pay off the debt. As a result, I think that if it is not already given in the context of the bill's proposal, it should have been subsequently delivered to the MPs and that certainly all those who have blamed the debt, and have committed the crime, should respond, all in the context of the fight against corruption and crime, which the SPO and the DHSS fully support. That's why we can't vote for this bill without this data.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7387	The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7388	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the basic question of this article, to which we have responded, and of course in all this law, is it whether the debt of a health care institution will be fully recovered and will this law prevent such debts from being made in the future? Will the entire health debt be returned this way? I am responsibly claiming and expressing my protest that the Minister is not listening to me right now. I insist you hear me. I think this is a very important topic and we need to get answers to these questions. I just said that this law in my opinion won't solve the problem. Why won't he solve the problem? Because this Article 2 speaks of a debt of 13 billion dinars, and so far no one has given us an explanation of how it is determined and whether it is true. Later, if you look at the whole law, Article 5 states that the Government will determine by special act the amount of each individual request for health, or wholesalerry towards health institutions. What does that mean? This means that at this point the government doesn't know what the current debt is to large-scale drugs, because if it did, it would have written it in law, but it would have supported certain documentation. I really think this is about a non-serious approach. For what? Because this law, you said it yourself, is trying to solve the problem in one quality way, in one overall way. Is that gonna be it? No, I don't. The settlement of the total debt depends on the sustainability of the supply of the entire health system. That's why we submitted this amendment where we asked to record the debts of each health care facility in person and we asked, of course, not to write it but to make it understood, to record the claim of every major drugstore in order to know what the total debt was. I have to protest again. I'm not finished. I have a lot more to ask. On the other hand, why do we insist on this much? Gentlemen, we must be aware that this law increases Serbia's public debt. So this means that someone made, which I think, this law is trying to amnesty from responsibility, someone has to return. Why are citizens obliged to repay this debt? Someone just has to answer that question. If he's already accepted to be a public debt, then the whole problem has to be solved. I keep saying he won't be solved. I want you to talk me out of it and give me arguments as to why you think otherwise. I have to say that the wholesalers expect what you said in the principle debate, it means they get their entire debt back. I also have to tell you another thing, that wholesales have a 20% loss on each import due to of course negative exchange rates. Several times, in fact, half a year already insist on changing the dinar course regulation. I will tell you that this regulation was passed in June 2011 and that it amounts to 99 dinars per euro. Representatives warn the government of both domestic and foreign drugs, so they can suspend all possible supplies of drugs and medical equipment, because the price of drugs is not consistent with the real course of the dinar. Furthermore, drugstores also, when they had already delivered drugs and medical equipment to health institutions, they paid both VAT and customs at the same time. That amount, more specifically, is not calculated into this, and we can only talk about that their total amount will not be settled. Furthermore, this bill speaks of the last term, meaning 31 December 2015, when they will be paid a complete debt. The question arises how much of their claim will be completely unscathed by that time. What do I insist on? I insist that I get an answer, whether this is how the bill, or whether the bill, will settle a complete debt to the wholesales, not because of the large-scale drugs, but because of the survival and security of the supply of medicines to the entire health system. So why do I insist on this amendment? Because I can only ask one question to make sure that you absolutely do not know what today's claims are in the exact amount, i.e. the debt of health institutions to large-scale drugs. That I'm going to be absolutely right, here's the only question I'm going to ask you, and I'm asking you right now a straight and clear answer. Do you know exactly what public debt is? Are these 13 billion dinars as much as are expected to calculate the debt of the Blood Transfusion Institute? I'm asking you right now for an answer, and if you answer that question correctly, and I know the answer, that's exactly why I'm asking you. So tell me, to see if yours or my arguments are in place.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7389	The word is Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7390	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Your Honor, of course dialogue is a way to understand each other. In principle, I gave a partial answer to your questions, but of course I will repeat. We're talking about two types of debt in health care. The first is, related to those debts made by health institutions in the name of non-contractual obligations and part of those debts is related to the co-operation of health institutions with large-scale drugs, of which you obviously have a lot of information and part of the debt is primarily related to debts to so-called. Unnecessary obligations. Therefore, for what the contract between that institution and the RZZO was not envisaged. The fund doesn't accept or admit that kind of debt. These debts are exactly 13 billion and 200 million. The state estimated that only a 13-billion-dollar debt could be taken on itself through public debt, which we talked about, and this rest would be settled in another way. So the institutions themselves will have to solve that second part. Do we know exactly which facility he owes and how much? Of course. The leveling was according to the exact data that the institutions leveled with those they owed. There are data on this in the RZZO. Can any MP get that information? Of course, even through the form of questions, he asks if it can be delivered to him? Yes, it can and should be delivered. Other types of debt are RZO debts to pharmacies. Those debts were over 210, even over 270 days. The law regulates in order to improve financial discipline that they must be absolutely time-limited. Therefore, due to the non-discipline of filling the RZZO fund itself, the RZO is unable to pay all its debts at the same time and within 60 days. But we need to cut back from 270 days and suggestions that in the first year, which is 2013 the most can be owed 150 days. In the following year, not more than 120 days, in order to go to 90 days, the time period foreseen for 2015. In that sense, this is just one part of trying to owe less. Is there going to be a debt? In improving financial discipline and the fact that a crime is predicted to be a non-payment of contributions to health care, I am convinced that we will meet somewhere and that we will have a financial framework for the functioning of healthcare better in the next period. But you know exactly what institution he owes, and you know exactly what kind of debt he's talking about. The moment we analyzed the complete financial situation, which was in November, in the first half of November, the debts on 30 October were exactly 13 billion and 200 million dinars of institutions according to wholesales, and the debts of RZZO according to pharmacies were around 17 billion. The first part of the debt has already been paid, the drug fund is now 13 billion. I think this year he's going to shrink by another billion to two. Therefore, we will enter some more normal financial flows. Of course, the promoter of these changes is the Ministry of Finance, but the government adopted this as its proposal and therefore I am giving answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7391	Do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7392	Thank you, Mr. President. You, Madam Minister, have explained everything I know. I expected to get some more precise answers from you that I simply asked about. You haven't answered my question, and it's not enough to tell me that the RZZO has all the necessary information on the total amount of debt at this point. I'm asking you now, and I've asked you a clear and concrete question. Have these 13 billion dinars been paid by the Institute for Blood Transfusion? Please answer that question for me right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7393	Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7394	The debt of all transfusions, therefore, not just those for which you ask will surely be paid, surely.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7395	National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7396	Dear President, Ministerial Health, this is a very good amendment from the DSS, and it actually affects one essence, and I will join the allegations of colleague Radovic, because two and a half weeks ago I asked for on the Health Committee, a list of health institutions with debt to wholesale drugs. So, what institutions, how much do they owe, what kind of drugs? After two and a half weeks, I didn't get it, and neither did the Health Committee, and that's actually the essence of this law. It's no accident that the proposer of this law is the Ministry of Finance, not you. That's because the finance ministry is trying this way to solve the bad business moves of its RAS executives who ran hospitals in the previous period. I beg you, I think it's very important, before we enter into the adoption of this law to find out who these institutions are, who the responsible persons are in those institutions and what big drugstores are. After that, when we learn that data, then we can be imaginative, so we can draw further conclusions, what, how, where, how much, who travels to. For the time being, it is very important that we find out, and then it will be clear to everyone, I think that it will be clearer for the citizens to know who it is and how, how he led the health policy in this country and how he put the hospital situation in this Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7397	National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7398	The Minister spoke to me, the amendment is mine, so I have the right to a replica. We figured out two things on one side of the debt fund doesn't settle down, it just settles the debt of a health care facility. That 17 billion dinar debt remains. The second thing, if you have all that information, wasn't it logical that you deliver it to us as the amendment says within 30 days of the adoption of the law, but that we are now asking a parliamentary question. If that's the case, believe me, Mr. President, that my question is addressed to the Minister of Health and it says-- please provide me with all the information by type of debt and by health institutions. If I have to, I'll deliver it to you in writing. The second thing, I don't know if there's communication in the government, because all of this you said is directly contrary to the law that will be passed on Saturday, the bill on payment deadlines. If the Fund delivers that it owes 17 billion, if this fund is to settle in the next three years, how do you expect all the participants in that healthcare chain to settle all their obligations in accordance with the deadlines, if the state owes them 30 billion, and now 13 delayed, and these 17 who know when. It will bring down the payment deadline law directly and it is all the opposite of what Minister Dinkic was saying here in the Assembly. That, with each other, doesn't go, and those two things directly destroy each other. It will create new delays and new problems, because so the law cannot be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7399	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7400	I think she's a minister now, we're trying to squeeze something out of dry drenina, questions that we've asked in the debate in principle, now we're getting answers back in general. In principle, I asked in the debate the following, as regards the unnecessarily agreed commitments with the RZO, whether it is true that health institutions were employed by 21 000 people, that the money that was to go for the purchase of drugs and medical equipment, instead of for these purposes, was spent in vain, for the salaries of those 21,000 people, and which were health institutions that did not respect financial discipline, or contract with the RZO. Number two, for debts towards the RZO, and the Fund fills its budget with 70% of contributions, surely it is not the majority responsibility of the Fund and we understand that part, because this is the general economic situation and the general state of our economy, and with these changes of the Criminal Code, since we have seen it, I think that every director of any company in Serbia will come under the threat of criminal responsibility, because everyone will sometimes be in a situation where there is no means of paying contributions to health insurance and then will be held accountable, so I don't even know how happily that solution is. What we should have received in the material, which you should have delivered to us at least until the debate in the amendments, you are now telling us that we are looking for this information in the form of a parliamentary question, which I think is really not correct and responsible for the MPs, according to those who make up the ruling majority, because they should vote for the cat in the sack, for something they do not know the origin of the debt, and they do not know who blamed that debt, and I think that these data would be good and because of the future behaviour of all healthcare institutions, and this is how we, in fact, amnestly amnestous of responsibility, and Serbian citizens will pay all the debt that has come into existence, often justified, and often quite unwarranted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7401	The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7402	Replication to Mrs. Minister's presentation. You didn't answer my question correctly, you said you believed the debt would be paid, but I'm asking if he's calculated in this amount that we're discussing? I also don't understand what will happen to the debts made after 30 September 2012, which defines exactly this law. Based on what we've just heard, it's clear that these debts have no one to pay. If you expect the health care institutions to pay the debt to the wholesalers, I think it's clear by this law that they don't have the resources. If they had the means, we wouldn't have passed this law. Today, health institutions instead of paying for medicines and medical equipment, they pay employees' salaries, 13,600 health workers with whom they contracted, in addition to contracts with the RZZO. I'm asking you again, how do you think this debt that depends on the security of funding, or delivery, and medications and medical equipment to health care institutions, is going to be resolved. It is my opinion, and I fully stand on the fact that this law will not solve it and that the simple half-decision that we have at the moment does not lead to the very solution of the whole situation, and I think that if this debt is not paid in full, it can continue to cause shortages of medicines, and I am afraid of certain departures of companies from the Serbian market.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7403	The word is made by Minister Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7404	Dear MPs, it is quite clear that since 1 November, as of 30 October, directors have been unable to make new debts based on the memos I sent them, and at the time we found that part of the debt, most of the debt, 13 billion long medical institutions, will take over the state, declare public debt, the directors have been obliged to strictly adhere to the contracts they have with the RZO. In case they had not done so and had had a direct need, they had to consult the RZO which has the reserve funds and which will compensate for that kind of cost, as well as by the end of the year, as well as the debts that you are particularly interested in. So, the Fund has spare funds, it is planned to compensate for the debts of all the transfusions in the country, it is planned that the objective debts made by the institutions in agreement with the Fund, which should and should be the manner of mutual co-operation before these debts are made, but if the current ministry deals with issues that you point to us to a year ago. We simply won't be able to solve here and now, very acute health care problems. In that sense, the directors of health institutions and drugstores know every step. We have agreed with them on every step we take and both sides have agreed to this solution. So no one here will be damaged or surprised. The Veledrogies were fully aware of their relationship with health institutions, which did not stem from the Fund's contract and health institutions. In this regard, they have also entered a certain risk, however, of trying to resolve this situation, because in the process, especially the need for the supply of drugs to be as high as possible for such a small amount of money as we have per capita. Simply, it must be motivated both by the manufacturer and transporter, the wholesalerry and of course health institutions. We don't think it takes much to lose here, much to gain. We have a difficult situation, which stems from the fact that 6% of GDP is allocated to health care, which is 250 euros per capita. We are trying to introduce more order so that as many of our citizens as possible have a better level of health care. In the anarchy that we've found ourselves in, if we'd moved on to these trends and hadn't tried to do something in financial discipline, we'd certainly have a completely different conversation on this subject today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7405	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7406	I don't know if we understand each other well, I'm just talking about Article 7, where it says that the provisions of this law apply to the debts of Article 1, at the conclusion of September 30, 2012. So, it's obvious, you gave the warrant from November 1st, so what's going to happen to this debt that was made in the meantime. I just want to get an answer from you, what kind of response and what kind of message the state is sending to anyone who wants to do business in our country right now. So it's clear that at this point, the drugstores won't be able to settle all of their debts, which they've achieved, because health institutions can't pay off at this point. I repeat, if they could pay off, even this law, of course they wouldn't bring it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7407	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7408	For a period of two months, by the end of the year, how many institutions remain to report to the Republic Health Insurance Institute, i.e. to its branch and to everything justified, there is a reserve of funds, which is planned for the justifiable requirements of the institution. So we're trying to get everything right, we're simply going to put it into one rut, and I don't know, in what other way to tell you that by the end of the year, we're going to solve what's the problem of the facility and the wholesaler, from the reserve funds, which is for that, but it has some limits, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7409	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7410	The esteemed chairman, respected minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, I will briefly support Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic's efforts, given that I am aware of the chaos in the health system for the past 20 years and I welcome Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic's courage to enter into the fight against all those anomalies that are present in the health system. Of course, your measure to centralise public procurement, I am an indicator that during the previous period many non-domestic behaviour and management of health institutions, including the Ministry of Health, in earlier terms, has been evident. I advocate as the MP of the DS, that transparently, when we discuss all the problems and health problems, we clearly say the names of the people who in charge of the state of Serbia, put us in charge, in charge of our children, and say that they did so in charge, whether they were in charge of receiving workers indefinitely, for a certain time, whether they were buying some appliances that weren't in the plan and the programme of these procurements for that year and for that institution. Of course, by their behavior they brought you personally, and also by the Ministry of Health, into an awkward situation that the Ministry of Health has collapsed, the position that you will be in bankruptcy, that you have not taken these measures. After taking your measures, I have information that again some executives are scared by centralization of public procurement, at the small door they broke through that one of your orders and purchased an apparatus that was not the subject of these purchases. Anyway, I'm saying that anyone who's made a bad move is clearly given his name and name and said where that money was spent. That money is absolutely not small and that this country is poor, but it gives a lot of money to the health care system and to spend it a little more rationally, we can bring Serbian health care to be much more quality than it is now. Serbian healthcare at the moment, according to many polls, is the latest in the quality of services in Europe. I, as a doctor, and as a professor, disagree with that, since I know how much our colleagues invest their work both in education and in working with patients, but the organisation of work has led neither doctors to be satisfied nor patients to be satisfied. You certainly have one chance to change some things with your efforts, which you have made from the beginning. Certainly, the support of the DS will be given as long as you clearly, transparently and reformically perform in the health sector. Very often I will repeat this in today's day, health policy should not be a policy, we are all colleagues here, we should all contribute, in order for the health care system to function much better for the benefit of our patients, and also for the benefit of the doctors and nurses working in this system. So I'm saying clearly why the state had to take on a debt of 13.5 billion dinars of non-intentional spending of health institutions and to explain this debt to pharmaceuticals houses a little more, this flow of money from the Republic Health Insurance Fund to the wholesales and afterwards, to pharmaceuticals houses, i.e.. The drug factories, because I got the information that money from the Republic Fund was regularly transferred to the expense of the wholesaler, and that the wholesalers waited a lot longer than it was allowed, kept the money, didn't transfer it to drug factories and did some things that I, I'm not a lawyer, I don't understand, but I think it should be as MPs, to get information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7411	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7412	When it comes to the activity that you have called "the small door", the decision of the director is within the authority of the founders and I promise you that those directors, who use such a way of working, will simply not be in the management system.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7413	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7414	Thank you. I'm going to do it one more time, because this is a very important law and a very important amendment. We're talking about some things here, but you have one thing that's constantly going through, who we can't get rid of, and that's that we can't punish those who do bad and reward those who do good, but we keep taking over what someone's doing wrong, so we turn into a public debt, and then all citizens, poor people, have to pay for it. Go ahead and reward the Director of the House of Health in Sapac, who owes no one anything and has no extra employees, no one over the contract. Will you reward her? Will you punish the directors of the hospitals who made this debt, but not just by taking them down, some new ones have come now. Of course we know that every accidental waste of funds, over a million dinars, is a crime. If we count 13.5 billion here, divide by the number of hospitals in Serbia, how many crimes is that? That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7415	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7416	The fact is that there are directors who have never really exceeded all those positions of contract with the Republic Health Insurance and Money Spending Institute in some institutions has always been an example of financial discipline and good functioning of a health institution. I'm joining the director's commendation at Capco. Here, I can think of the director of the Institute of Mental Health, Professor. Lecic, therefore, has many directors, probably also directors, who thus function, and it is certain that in future cooperation I will rely on them. An analysis of everything you ask of me is really one such retrospective and one such organization that not enough is another ministry of employees. I don't mean just you, Mr. MP, but all of what you're looking for is what it was, why it was. Please, I stand by the fact that by the end of this year, you will know exactly in pairs, how much who has exceeded certain obligations and how much who has made certain expenses. Whether it was founded somewhere, if there was a breach of procedure, whether there was manipulation, that's what others have to do. The Minister of Health must do what we plan to do at this point, which is to plan a safer and safer future with this little money. I'm going to be extremely honest, there's at least 10% of those in this room who asked me for very high-quality doctors to hire them somewhere. You know, it's part of the debt and because really our financial opportunities can't cover all the human needs we have. It's part of the debt, too. We cannot strictly talk about health care as all the expressions of corruption, all the expressions of nepotism, and all the various unshakable social communications. In that sense, I think we need to separate the wheat from the weeds and that it's not at all controversial. I use this opportunity to ask the Minister of the Interior to ask the D.A. to do their job and to ask all citizens not to participate in corrupt activities, or if they are asked to participate in them, that they are indeed free to report to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7417	Thank you. National MP Zelenovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7418	Thank you. It's all very nice of you to say and I support you, but I expect one more step from you. I expect that what you advise and pray for, that you, by your official duty, point to these things, and then we'll see if there's any readiness with other authorities in the state to do so. What you kind of sublime and say is that everything is so bad, it's all the way it is, I've done what I can do, I really respect it, but it's not enough. You're still the minister. On the other hand, you've now crossed one line, I think it's also legal, which is that you justify hiring through a contract, if I understand correctly. Correct me if I'm wrong. So we can't run social policy through health policy. Health policy is one thing, and whether or not there are enough employees... If you'd analyzed a little bit more, or if these before you had been a little bit more analyzed, you'd see how much all the secondary health institutions are missing a specialist doctor, a lack of nurses, but that's why we've got carpenters, moths, dyes, whatever you want. Then who's gonna treat people? Give me that solution. I don't see it in any of these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7419	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7420	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think my colleague has been given a round of applause, only I would remind you of Serbian citizens that the current minister is talking about the debt inherited from the previous period. A clinic centre in Nis had 3,300 employees before October 5, 2000. Why don't you ask the Minister who hired these people? Does she need to know? A thousand and a few people were employed when these new ones came. The debts that were made are not the rules of Minister Slavica. I've been a director for three months, and I haven't received one. Why don't you commend me? Shortly before, a fellow Member of Parliament mentions 13,000 extra employees. Do you want me to ask this MP group if he thinks 13,000 people are fired from work? (Milica Radovic from the site: Can you repeat the question? ) Let me rephrase - would you like me to ask this parliamentary group, to publicly say that you're asking us to fire 13,000 health workers? You said that a little while ago, he's got extras. (President: Do not address the MPs directly, please. I have to look the other way again. So there's only one problem. That's what we talked about at the previous session. So we need to talk about trying to solve the situation. He's right, he says, that he doesn't want to treat carpenters, moths, Gressers and carpenters, but these people are living beings and they work in a health care system. They work at the Nis Clinical Center. I can't fire them and thus reduce their debt and be equal and that's why the health system becomes stable. No, there's a fire now. After that, we pass the laws you asked for, to get rid of them, and to arrest those who stole. Both directors and from the Fund, all who stole to be arrested. That's the way it has to be. When it's over, then we solve the system laws of other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7421	Thank you. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7422	Dear Minister, it is difficult for you if you are defended by a colleague Radovanovic. My colleague Radovanovic didn't understand me. I didn't ask anyone to fire themselves, I just asked for regulations to be applied. They're clear and there are norms. They say how many shots the health system needs to be in, but it doesn't agree with what's in reality. So, I'm not gonna fire anyone, but there's a possibility of making room to hire doctors, experts, but I'll talk about it later. So it's a misunderstanding. Otherwise, I commend my colleague Radovanovic. Well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7423	Thank you. The next word came from MP Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7424	Thank you very much. I am reporting under this amendment and within the framework of this discussion that is currently under way. I think the minister is clear enough how and how this debt will be paid and ironed out. Normally, not so easy, but I'm sure it'll end. However, there is one other thing to think about – how this debt is made and perhaps a little more flexible. I would agree with a part of the colleagues who spoke, and Mrs. Minister answered something. The debt that was made was not made by criminal activity, nor went into someone's pocket, the debt was spent on insurance companies, spent on the health of these people. The debts made for the drugs were spent, as well as a number of health workers of 20,000 or 13,000, someone mentions 13,000, someone mentions 20,000, these people got jobs. They're employed where they were needed, exactly what you were talking about. Maybe there's a small percentage of employees where they shouldn't be, but that's very small. So, what my colleague was talking about, we're not going to be hoping to get 20,000 people fired because it was received through a contract with the Fund. There's another problem, Madam Minister, what we talked about on the Health Committee, which is that we crash and we crash again with the Health Insurance Fund, which is that we give too much authority to the Fund and we give the possibility that it organises health care in the Republic of Serbia, not the Ministry of Health. The Fund often does not understand the needs of health institutions and insurance needs. He works very often on some bureaucratic principles, not thinking about whether any of these bureaucratic principles directly sometimes harm people’s health. I'm not saying it's intentional, but I think he's doing it out of ignorance. What we were talking about is that many of the greater rights, greater opportunities, that is, the organisation of health care should have a ministry, not a Health Fund, because this particular debt was made in that direction, which the directors of the health care institution have clashed with the possibilities given to them by the Republic Health Fund. If the Republic Health Fund had been able to understand the needs of health institutions both in staff and in medical spending, we wouldn't have had this kind of debt. It's kind of an artificial debt that's been made. That debt could've been ironed and could've been smaller. Now we have this debt that the Republic Fund has just presented to us and we're going to iron it. An analysis of everything you ask of me is really one such retrospective and one such organization that not enough is another ministry of employees. I don't mean just you, Mr. MP, but all of what you're looking for is what it was, why it was. Please, I stand by the fact that by the end of this year, you will know exactly in pairs, how much who has exceeded certain obligations and how much who has made certain expenses. Whether it was founded somewhere, if there was a breach of procedure, whether there was manipulation, that's what others have to do. The Minister of Health must do what we plan to do at this point, which is to plan a safer and safer future with this little money. I'm going to be extremely honest, there's at least 10% of those in this room who asked me for very high-quality doctors to hire them somewhere. You know, it's part of the debt and because really our financial opportunities can't cover all the human needs we have. It's part of the debt, too. We cannot strictly talk about health care as all the expressions of corruption, all the expressions of nepotism, and all the various unshakable social communications. In that sense, I think we need to separate the wheat from the weeds and that it's not at all controversial. I use this opportunity to ask the Minister of the Interior to ask the D.A. to do their job and to ask all citizens not to participate in corrupt activities, or if they are asked to participate in them, that they are indeed free to report to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7425	Thank you. National MP Zelenovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7426	Thank you. It's all very nice of you to say and I support you, but I expect one more step from you. I expect that what you advise and pray for, that you, by your official duty, point to these things, and then we'll see if there's any readiness with other authorities in the state to do so. What you kind of sublime and say is that everything is so bad, it's all the way it is, I've done what I can do, I really respect it, but it's not enough. You're still the minister. On the other hand, you've now crossed one line, I think it's also legal, which is that you justify hiring through a contract, if I understand correctly. Correct me if I'm wrong. So we can't run social policy through health policy. Health policy is one thing, and whether or not there are enough employees... If you'd analyzed a little bit more, or if these before you had been a little bit more analyzed, you'd see how much all the secondary health institutions are missing a specialist doctor, a lack of nurses, but that's why we've got carpenters, moths, dyes, whatever you want. Then who's gonna treat people? Give me that solution. I don't see it in any of these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7427	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7428	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think my colleague has been given a round of applause, only I would remind you of Serbian citizens that the current minister is talking about the debt inherited from the previous period. A clinic centre in Nis had 3,300 employees before October 5, 2000. Why don't you ask the Minister who hired these people? Does she need to know? A thousand and a few people were employed when these new ones came. The debts that were made are not the rules of Minister Slavica. I've been a director for three months, and I haven't received one. Why don't you commend me? Shortly before, a fellow Member of Parliament mentions 13,000 extra employees. Do you want me to ask this MP group if he thinks 13,000 people are fired from work? (Milica Radovic from the site: Can you repeat the question? ) Let me rephrase - would you like me to ask this parliamentary group, to publicly say that you're asking us to fire 13,000 health workers? You said that a little while ago, he's got extras. (President: Do not address the MPs directly, please. I have to look the other way again. So there's only one problem. That's what we talked about at the previous session. So we need to talk about trying to solve the situation. He's right, he says, that he doesn't want to treat carpenters, moths, Gressers and carpenters, but these people are living beings and they work in a health care system. They work at the Nis Clinical Center. I can't fire them and thus reduce their debt and be equal and that's why the health system becomes stable. No, there's a fire now. After that, we pass the laws you asked for, to get rid of them, and to arrest those who stole. Both directors and from the Fund, all who stole to be arrested. That's the way it has to be. When it's over, then we solve the system laws of other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7429	Thank you. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7430	Dear Minister, it is difficult for you if you are defended by a colleague Radovanovic. My colleague Radovanovic didn't understand me. I didn't ask anyone to fire themselves, I just asked for regulations to be applied. They're clear and there are norms. They say how many shots the health system needs to be in, but it doesn't agree with what's in reality. So, I'm not gonna fire anyone, but there's a possibility of making room to hire doctors, experts, but I'll talk about it later. So it's a misunderstanding. Otherwise, I commend my colleague Radovanovic. Well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7431	Thank you. The next word came from MP Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7432	Thank you very much. I am reporting under this amendment and within the framework of this discussion that is currently under way. I think the minister is clear enough how and how this debt will be paid and ironed out. Normally, not so easy, but I'm sure it'll end. However, there is one other thing to think about – how this debt is made and perhaps a little more flexible. I would agree with a part of the colleagues who spoke, and Mrs. Minister answered something. The debt that was made was not made by criminal activity, nor went into someone's pocket, the debt was spent on insurance companies, spent on the health of these people. The debts made for the drugs were spent, as well as a number of health workers of 20,000 or 13,000, someone mentions 13,000, someone mentions 20,000, these people got jobs. They're employed where they were needed, exactly what you were talking about. Maybe there's a small percentage of employees where they shouldn't be, but that's very small. So, what my colleague was talking about, we're not going to be hoping to get 20,000 people fired because it was received through a contract with the Fund. There's another problem, Madam Minister, what we talked about on the Health Committee, which is that we crash and we crash again with the Health Insurance Fund, which is that we give too much authority to the Fund and we give the possibility that it organises health care in the Republic of Serbia, not the Ministry of Health. The Fund often does not understand the needs of health institutions and insurance needs. He works very often on some bureaucratic principles, not thinking about whether any of these bureaucratic principles directly sometimes harm people’s health. I'm not saying it's intentional, but I think he's doing it out of ignorance. What we were talking about is that many of the greater rights, greater opportunities, that is, the organisation of health care should have a ministry, not a Health Fund, because this particular debt was made in that direction, which the directors of the health care institution have clashed with the possibilities given to them by the Republic Health Fund. If the Republic Health Fund had been able to understand the needs of health institutions both in staff and in medical spending, we wouldn't have had this kind of debt. It's kind of an artificial debt that's been made. That debt could've been ironed and could've been smaller. Now we have this debt that the Republic Fund has just presented to us and we're going to iron it. However, the money was spent positively, not spent negatively. We don't need to talk in any way about it being a crime and that someone should be held accountable, criminal responsibility, the director of an institution that has obtained medical supplies to use it in a hospital or someone at a workplace in a hospital or in a village hospital has received a doctor or nurse who needs to work. All of this has been spent on the well-being of Serbian citizens, i.e. insurance companies. So I think we should be far more flexible in assessing how this debt was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7433	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7434	Dear colleague Mijatovic, I thank you for some of the findings and I do not wish to get along publicly, but we discussed it at the Health Committee. I must say, at this point, the Fund is owed 66 billion without interest. If we know that this debt to the Fund is that big, it's clear that the Fund has to owe, you're absolutely right that there's been some interference. What should the Fund do that I still claim should be a health care bank and worry about protecting the insurance company, because these are its functions. We have tried these changes to seek that everyone does their job to form republican expert committees that will advise the Fund on what is the rule of the profession regarding prevention, early diagnostics, treatments and rehabilitation, and the Fund to say - with so much money, with so much money we can support the profession, for the surplus we have no money. It may be a reason to simply say it in another way – it is true that a terrible sense of power was made when it is said – simply the Republic Health Insurance Institute, it is considered to be someone who decides, who has money, who makes money distribution, who can put some subjective criteria into it. That is why we think that the republican expert commissions should replace and assist the Ministry and the Fund, the Institute of Public Health as Serbia's general health planner, to do their job together, but according to the rules of the profession. We think that this change is in line with the trend arising from your initiatives in the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7435	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7436	The esteemed chairman, a respected minister, would disagree with a discussion that says – well, that money has been spent and the state will take over and it will be a public debt. How long has this state of Serbia been making bad moves and covering the wrong moves of certain individuals? How long do we cover the Jugoscan, the Dafina, Agrobanka to cover the public debt that was made in the health care system? It has to be made clear and sanctioned by those people who made those debts, who made some of those shops. What's more important is that it's more important for this country and this people to get that money back, it's more than condemning these people to get that money back. Also, I don't think I'd agree with you that it's great that schlepsers and moths were admitted to the clinical centers. I'll tell you that there are 3,400 employees at my clinical center, of which there are no 700 doctors. We need doctors. I'm asking you the same thing - how do you hire these doctors? Our young doctors are leaving the country. We teach those kids and those kids leave. I'll tell you that there is no 20-year form of public competition in the health care system. Children are received, either children are doctors or are politically similar, i.e. that they are members of some parties. If the director of a clinical center or a health center is a representative of a political organisation, those children will get a job. On behalf of the DS, I advocate that the best treatment in the best reference facilities in Serbia's clinical centres is not allowed to enter the clinical centres and health homes at a small door. This is what I said in the plenary session when we discussed the law, that many would be upset by what I mentioned, and I will mention it once again with pride, that the only public competition I know has been conducted in Serbia, carried out by Mayor Dragan Gilas, president of the DS. Last year, he called a competition for 60 doctors and registered 600 doctors from all over Serbia. In addition to the average estimates that were important for the reception and making of the scales of these doctors, a knowledge test was performed. That it can't be more transparent, in that knowledge test and in that sum of the percentage of success first place in that contest is one of my students, Nisli, and I have the authority to say his name. This is Petar Stankovic, an average of 10.0, a boy who couldn't find a job because the directors of clinical centres were from some other parties. A respected minister, a classmate of the Nis Medical Faculty, cannot find a job for three years and the first public competition to be held in Belgrade was the first. He's working at the Starlight at the ORL clinic today. Is it possible that we couldn't as a state to find ways for the best kids to work at clinical centres? Where do our best kids work? If they are not children of professors or if they are not children of some political magog, they go to work either in Black Trev or in some smaller places or work for some pharmaceutical houses as commercial travelers, which was not their wish when they studied or left this country. I'm trying to stop her from receiving nonmedical personnel at medical institutions. We're all over the place, and we don't have a place to take these people anymore, and we have a lack of doctors, a lack of good doctors. I will repeat more times today that in Serbia it is not a problem to get sick, but it is a problem to treat myself because of the great reception of good doctors. Basically, good children are leaving and treating the citizens of Germany, America, and some are treating Serbian citizens along the political line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7437	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdakovic-Todorović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7438	I come and work at the largest primary health care facility, not in the country, but in the Balkans, which is the House of Health Nis, with more than 1,300 employees. The new leadership inherited a huge debt from the previous one. That's over 150 million dinars. We have a big problem with unintended spending money for 2010 and 2012 so we are unable to pay the way for the amount of earnings to employees. We expect help from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and the Republic Fund to get us out of this crisis. We also have unnecessarily agreed workers, but that's not that many numbers. I think there's only one doctor and two nurses on that list.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7439	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7440	That debt is known who made it in the previous period. We're in favour of getting out of the crisis, but every purposeless spent money, who did it to get back into the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7441	The word has a folk MP, Dr Nikola Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7442	Dear Minister, the Honorable Chairman-in-Office, I think that all discussions are well-intentioned, because the mahogany is discussed by doctors whose main motive is in any case a better organisation of health services. Patients who rightly respond to certain health problems should be better off. I'd like to draw attention to the number of employees. It's been employed 20 grand past some competitions. The majority of patients' complaints are not focused on expertise but on the conditions in which they spend time in the hospital, the length of waiting and unhygiene. What's work in the department? We say we've received 20 or more thousand patients. The nurses are working 12 hours a day, 12 hours a night, and two days are not working. They've been doing it for months. Maybe two months a year working normal time first, second, third shift. What I would draw attention to is that although there is no money, we need to build on these relationships that exist between the Fund and the health institutions to establish some closer contact. Health Fund for many things not to say makes unprofessional decisions. (President: Mr. Jovanovic, please, agenda topic. Money is a big problem. A colleague said doctors don't hire and go to Black Trev. In earlier years, 1972, 1973, all doctors first had to work in the village to get credentials so they could work in hospitals. We'll be outside the party together for the Shumadi to support any amendments that are in the interest of the patients.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7443	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7444	Thank you. I didn't mean to answer for the discussion, but I was encouraged by my colleague, Mijatovic, because I think very much like him. I would like to remind once again that the debts made, as the minister said, are fully in favour of the separation of debts made by criminal activity, illegal work and debts made simply to meet the health needs of not only insurance workers, but citizens otherwise. Also, I want to remind myself that health care is owed, as we heard from the minister in the meantime, but it was my idea, 60 billion, which exceeds the debt that health care has multiple. We live in a country where we're used to having health services, not as much as we've paid for them, but as far as we need them. This is a solid health care system, and I am absolutely convinced that there is no one in this room who would advocate that the funds limit us to the necessary health services to be provided to the population. I'm sure no one would stand for it and that no one, if they were the director of a health care facility, could say, "I'm sorry, this month we had money for a number of analysis, now you're here, and you need to do a certain interrogation, no more money, come home." That's how some health care systems work somewhere in the world, like in America. That is not possible in Serbia. You receive anyone who needs health care, you make debts, because some others haven't paid their debts to the Health Fund or, even if they paid, this is a poor country, an economically weakened country, and then the question is whether we would have enough to cover all the health needs of our population. Would any of your fellow surgeons refuse to operate on anyone because that hospital spent the sanity material needed for the operation? No, we can't do that. That is why some of the people who ran hospitals had to go into debt. I don't want to encourage passion and spread the discussion on whether or not some directors might have made contact with the Fund easier, so they've made it easier to cover their debts and others harder, etc. Maybe it depends on the management skills, too, I don't know. In any case, I advocate that those who are illegal, who are applying corrupt mechanisms of debt, should be accountable to the law. In a way, we all really need to understand that health care is not an economy. In the economy maybe you can say – here the end, I won't get a repromatter if I don't have to pay for it, but in health care you have to get it, because you have to provide that health care service. I totally agree that the practice that exists in medical and all the other colleges, that teachers are being admitted and the rest of them aren't, should be interrupted, but it's not since yesterday, it's been going on in this country for a little while, so we all need to see if it worked that way or not. I want to remind you that it is not true that the only competition has been called in Belgrade. A few years ago, the health ministry called a competition, where a number of young people, doctors who were admitted exclusively after the competition, were employed by the health ministry in various hospitals in Serbia and received the best doctors. So, please, I won't remind you again, and I used to be a health care user myself, and in the '90s in this country, I had surgical interventions without anesthesia, because in the hospital they couldn't tell me they didn't have anesthesia, so I could buy it myself. I believe you may all have been in similar situations. There's been a shift in health care, but never these moves will be as much as we want them to be. Let's put down our passions and really talk about how we can solve health problems and how to make it the most functional system. This isn't the first time the state has taken on debts. That's what we did in 2004 or 2005, when hospital debt was leveled. It's just that we live in a system where health care makes, unfortunately, more costs than the state can cover with those 250 euros per capita. Let's see how we can make the system work, not have sensational headlines in the paper, and tomorrow the new minister, which we all praise now, don't call if a patient isn't provided with a health care service, and then we'll say again – the system doesn't work well. Now we want to strictly limit that it only works within existing means. It's not a health shop on the corner. All of this should be kept in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7445	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7446	Dear Vice President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to talk about a few good and well-intentioned amendments, not just the last one, and the discussions that have developed, just to remind all of us, when you have a problem, when you're sick, then health is the most important thing for you, and when you're healthy, then money is the most important thing for you. What are we talking about today? About trying, and I agree. For 20 years we have been facing the same problem, which is that a little money, in different ways an orderly health care system has led us to inability and we are no different from the rich countries, let alone the poor, inability to cover all the costs incurred in the previous period in one orderly way. I listened to that in 1995 and 2000 and 2004, and now in 2012. I understand the demands of the MPs, who say – an analysis of the part of the costs they have incurred, so that they do not come into production in the future. But we will certainly still find ourselves in a situation where we don't have enough money in health care, that we will have these problems all the time and that, often in political discussions, we will be not only scarred, but also inhumans. I remind you that apart from the health system, we have some other systems, except for the obligations of the law regarding this area, we have constitutional obligations. I don't think we've been charged yet. The Minister knows what I'm talking about. Seven years ago, I negotiated how to collect debt to the Serbian health system, and we all support it, because of our constitutional obligation. We don't just care about the citizens of Serbia. Patients come, as you know, from Montenegro, Republika Srpska, from different occasions. Besides me, on the left, there's a former military minister. And he knows how much according to that part of the health system was also a large number of problems, where it is a matter of basic humanity and our obligation to cover some of those costs. All these amendments, I suppose, want what we heard in the pledoaje of Ministers and Mr Mijatovic and other MPs, which is that the fact that we don't have enough money is solved from the point of view of money, but that we need to know that we will have problems like this all the time in the coming period, and that we are not specific, that is, about all countries. When it comes to health, I really pray that we don't make politics, it's simply rude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7447	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7448	Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that we have submitted is practically necessary to supplement the bill's proposal, because it is quite clear that when it comes to the robbed Health Fund, we have no idea today whether there is a proper control of the funds in the fund at all, especially when it comes to the control of the outflow of funds from the Fund and the way they are spent. At least the citizens of Serbia know that, at least we know that all of us who pay for our health through compulsory health insurance, and we have no idea who and how our money is available. This situation lasts for years and decades in this country. Instead of solving this problem in the last 15-20 years, it gets worse and worse. So, the Fund in our system as it is now is no good, let me tell you right now, and it needs to be changed in full. The Fund is the only source of real financing of health services in the state sector. That's how we got into a situation where all health care was questioned. If we have to turn 13 to 13 billion into public debt now, so that the Fund can work at all, in order to pay off at all the obligations that health institutions have to those of whom they bought drugs, which are otherwise still accounted for by 99 dinars for the euro, and that whole chain goes into one endless religion, then it's only natural that at one point it'll all stop, or break. And here, Solomon's solution, let's move 13 billion to public debt, to settle that obligation that exists, then let's pass a few more accompanying laws that are supposed to help, I'm saying, to introduce that control into the inflow and outflow of funds from the Fund, not necessarily all worked out properly. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and you citizens watching will never function properly, because everything is upside down. This system is really not working. Our system of solidarity through the Mandatory Insurance Fund, as hats over the entire system, doesn't work, and we're not a state, economically, ready, and that's where we have to look ourselves in the eye and say that it bears any burden in this sector. That's absolutely impossible. What the hell is he saying? It says that instead of doing things in principle – cut off the ears, clothe the underpants, such as this case, by burdening the citizens of Serbia, i.e. taxpayers to pay out of their pockets again in the future these 13 billion public debt for the same health services they expect from the state, for the money they otherwise paid for health insurance. Who doesn't realize I'm being translated. So, we paid the money for compulsory health insurance, based on that money, hospitals and other institutions function, they're in debt, they buy drugs, they don't have the money to pay the Fund, the Fund doesn't have the money to pay it to drug suppliers, big drug dealers, and there's a huge debt. They also owe the wholesalers to the producers, so they transfer the demand to hospitals through the cesium. It's one general galamatias, and I didn't see at all how in this bill you solved that problem. There's no word here about it, it's like it doesn't exist. We don't even know what that debt is. You estimated it up to 13 billion, and it could be 30 billion, and not just on this basis, but on different grounds. What's wrong with that? There's no good in that there's no magic wand, there's no mechanism that can put this back in place. In other words, you had no choice at the moment. In the short term, if you want to solve a problem in a month, you had to do this. Then at least it should be openly told the citizens that there are extra peels of skin from their backs in this way, taking double money from the budget, or triple, ask God how many, and in addition to your promise at the last session when they came here and at the meeting of the Health Committee, we have not yet seen that we have embarked on the root of the change in the system and that we have changed the system of functioning mandatory insurance in Serbia. What's it got to do? So that we don't beat up empty straw and talk shit, I'll tell you what to do right now, so be my guest, do it. If you don't, then someone else will have to do it the first time she shows up. This is, for example, our client – DSS. I'm going to tell you right now very selflessly what needs to be done. Enable competition of insurance entities. It is in our case an intervention measure, as well as a long-term strategy. Do it, provide a patient with a good law to protect his rights and severe state control of the private sector. But let the private sector be a pillar of health care, such as the state sector. Let's translate it for the citizens who watch this and listen to it in a very simple language. Do we have our own health book? We do, based on work and work where we're going. Let's ask people - can you go to a private pharmacy with that health book and pick up the prescription? You can't. That's what makes this system. With that book, can you choose your doctor, by choice, general practice, and be the man who opened the office on the corner, private, where you find it much easier and faster to come, to be provided a service, to get a prescription, not just a prescription, but a hospital manual, for therapeutic protection? You can't. The question arises – why? Because our system is so set up that it doesn't allow those who have a private initiative in the health sector to have confidence in the system that they'll ever be paid anything. That's why it doesn't work. You, Madam Minister, on the Health Committee when we spoke, mentioned the issue of apothecary institutions. You said there was a negotiation going on. Of course, by law, they should accept those recipes. Imagine the man who opened the pharmacy with family money and solved the man from living, so where did you get the idea that someone would allow 100 patients to show up that day with 100 recipes or 500 recipes, for which the Fund would pay him no more than two years or a year and a half. They don't pay for six months, it's a disaster, it doesn't work that way. If you solve this problem this way, by taking over the public debt and stimulating the Fund to settle it, and obligations, it will not go automatically. In the end, the system will choke again, because you didn't guarantee anywhere that what you did was worth anything, that this would really solve the problem that made you go into these changes. It just won't work, you know? How did you get to that 13 billion, that's what I'm curious about? How did you make it to 13 billion? You're here, but how? I'd like you to really tax us who is the one who owes the most, who owes the most in health care institutions, what is the money, who was the responsible person in charge of that money, who are the producers that are the most owed by the wholesalers, who are the producers in the chain with the wholesalers in terms of debt and demand, how did this happen, and did anyone ever answer? Has anyone ever answered, not guilty, but has anyone been replaced for it? We've had several criminal proceedings in this country, which the public seems to have created for certain political reasons. I don't think it's party political persecution, it's so-called. day-to-day policy towards events. So, there was some arrest of a woman, who then pointed out that there was corruption in a wider chain, she pointed to the director of a very important health center in Serbia, a man was arrested, and later, it was known that it happened... (President: Mr. Aligrudic, please return to the topic. You don't have to raise your voice to me at all. What? That's the theme, the 13 billion dinars that are listed. So don't, please, remind me in a way that is inappropriate - 13 billion debt in Article 2 we have submitted the amendment and that's the topic. Here we have said in the amendment, if you do not know how to read the text, I will read it to you - an integral part of this law is the record of all debts of health institutions according to wholesales, according to institutions and wholesales to be delivered to the National Assembly on 31 December 2012. I'm explaining to you why this is necessary, and you're interrupting me and saying that I need to link what I'm saying to the subject. That can only be said to me by someone who has nothing to do with what he's doing. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7449	I remind you again that you're back on the subject. Thank you. The word is Dr. Zoran Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7450	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think I definitely have the first chance to catch my dear colleague in the act. So, multiple times when I wanted something on the boards, where he's called on to attend the Health Committee, so he comes, says and goes. That's what you have in your stenogram. He comes, says and goes. Now, for the first time, we can talk as people on this subject. This topic, these 13 billion, last time I asked not to talk to people who aren't in the health care system. I'm sorry, I can't speak out loud.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7451	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7452	Why did I say this? I want to explain one thing. Why did I say that someone who's not in the health care system doesn't talk about health care?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7453	I ask the People's Messengers to allow the Messenger to speak. Here you go, Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7454	Why am I saying this? I'll try to be simple in explaining. The Health Fund last year identified funds to the Nis Clinical Centre of about six billion, with all the salaries. The euro was calculated by 99. The 2010 plan, 2011, 2012 and will be for 2013. Every September or October of the month, we in such an institution, this guy, have no more drugs and materials, or we're done with drugs or material. As one colleague just said, not all criminal acts are. Ten times I said that whoever did something bad should be arrested. This year, my proposal was just a little while ago, that if this fire doesn't go out now and the system laws don't work out in five years, we'll re-adopt this law. Since September, we will have a shortage of medications in October, if we design 2012 at 2013. I said that's something to talk about who's in the health care system. On the other hand, each of the patients, someone was just talking, so it's badly interpreted, when they come to us in November, the Fund doesn't charge us a favor, but the Fund gives us back the invoice. You don't know that. (John Palalic, from the place: we know nothing. Is the MP going to throw it like this all the time? It really doesn't make sense, and it's not right. I'm trying to educate some of my colleagues on these things, but they won't listen. They're restless, and I look them in the eye. It is very simple, the Health Fund as such does not have enough resources to hand over plans to the ministry in September, October, November and December with projected prices, because in January we are handing over plans to the ministry. In January of the month, the plans were submitted by Batut. In January of the month, I need to write how many people are going to be operated, how many are going to be sick, how many are going to be caught, and how many medicines are going to be needed accordingly. That's what I said last time. Medicine, or health institutions, is a living organism. I can't be, like my colleague said, dear. You come in, buy a beer or something, and you come out. These are living mechanisms. What if there's a big traffic accident today? I'll have 20 surgeries today. You have to understand that. The proposal was to stop following the laws after the end of this Fund and prevent corruption, to determine who was guilty and to keep the health system sustainable by means of new laws. Will it be private security, something else, a third? It's totally irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7455	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milos Aligrudic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7456	Article 107. So, I would ask that if you reacted to me last time in the wrong way to react now and to warn a colleague who insults his fellow MP. The insult was presented the following way, at least I feel offended. First, he said that I had no rights or had no grounds to talk about health care and health changes because I wasn't a health care professional. I am, like you, a dear colleague, and all the other colleagues, and you, Madam Vice President, and you, Madam Minister, someone who uses a health care service based on compulsory insurance and it is mandatory under the law. I have a direct and direct interest like all citizens to talk about changes in the health system and this kind of disqualification at the very least, I'm not going to qualify what my colleague said. The second thing, commenting on something that is not right, and it is not the place to comment, which is the impression of the MP that another MP is running or coming out of the Health Committee, is a little bit, so he goes away, etc. It's a pure insult and ultimately slander. Because this MP cannot know the reasons and extent of his fellow Members' obligations in this House, whether or not there is something else scheduled at a similar time, and how much I have been on the Health Committee is the measure I have set aside, which is necessary for him to participate in the discussion and to contribute to the solution to this problem. After all, I'd like us to take our remarks that we make to the extreme well-intentioned, because if they're going to be well-intentioned, they'll be here in the health sector. There is no direct political interest, at least not in our parliamentary groups or any of us individually, which would make us something different. These all remarks we make are very important, and we think that without them, the system can't be decommissioned, and then speak like that, and then repeat 90% of what I said, I guess because it's from the mouth of a doctor, not from the mouth of another man in this country. That's really offensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7457	Thank you. I don't think article 107 has been broken. Rules of Procedure. Mr Radovanovic expressed his opinion in the previous discussion and did not mention you personally. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: I ask that we plead in the voting day. All right. In the day of the vote, we will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Milos Aligrudić, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27) The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7458	You've hurt the Rules of Procedure a little bit, and I'm telling you this most well-meaningly, I'll be done in less than 30 seconds. So it's not a question of whether or not someone mentioned someone, but look at the Rules of Procedure. The term and standard used in the Rules of Procedure is either that the direct name is mentioned, or that the discussion of the previous speaker refers to the discussion of the previous speaker and without mentioning the name. You've already made mistakes, but I wanted to distract you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7459	Okay. Now I'm going to plead to Article 27. Each of us MPs has the right to express his political will in the way he thinks. Of course, no offense. I didn't realize that Mr. Radovanovic insulted anyone, but in voting day... (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: I ask that we plead in the voting day. ) We will also plead for this article on the 27th day of the vote. (Jovan Palalic, from the scene: The Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7460	Article 108. You have to take care here, because we've already had this debate where there's been a debate about the Banks Act where the lawyers disqualify themselves. Why are they talking about the National Bank Act? Today we hear disqualification of all those who are not health workers, who are even talking about this law. We've heard qualifications that we don't know about this to discuss. I ask you to keep an eye on us, because we are not Members of the public here just for health care, but we have the right to discuss all the points of the agenda, not just when one point comes. I can't work with my colleagues when their area comes to discuss it. We want to have a debate, because we're all interested in representing citizens on all topics. Please, then there will be a series of restrictions. No one will talk about anything except professional people, and we will disqualify each other. Take care of it and warn colleagues who disqualify other colleagues just because they are not of direct profession. Otherwise, this debate will turn into an expert debate, and we represent citizens here. We don't express political views.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7461	Thank you. I agree with you, Mr. Palalic. However, I did not understand Mr Radovanovic's exposure in the way you understood him. It's yours to decide on that in the voting day. The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7462	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I answered for a second time for one very specific reason. This discussion broke down and the citizens of Serbia are watching it and I think that the minister, I am speaking to the Minister of Health, has realised that the Health Protection Act has matured for the root change, not just for cosmetic changes. We need to pass a comprehensive health care law and everything that wasn't right, and a lot of it wasn't right, should be thrown out and done, without these cosmetic changes, one fundamental change. That's one thing. Secondly, I may be wrong, but I didn't understand Mr Aligrudic in one thing, and the citizens of Serbia heard it, so I would like it to be clarified here. It is that two or three times will be peeled, i.e. that they will be charged some kind of health care. I wouldn't agree with that if I wasn't wrong. If the oxy health facility obtained a certain amount of material and spent it on treating patients, the material could not be paid because the Fund did not transfer funds. This means that in this way a health care institution through the Fund that did not pay for it has credited patients, credited its patients. Therefore, this means that only now will it be paid for the first time, not the second, because it is 250 euros, as far as we are going for treatment, the 250 euros have been spent. We spent over it, that's why we made this public debt, so we're going to make up for it now from the budget of these or those funds. So it won't be two or three times paid, it'll only be paid once. Another thing we haven't talked about here is that there are large economic operators, even pharmaceutical houses that haven't settled their obligations to the Health Insurance Fund. These people and their members were provided and treated by this health care system. It happens that a large pharmaceutical house, not to mention the name, which employs several thousand workers, collects its preparations through the big drugstores, but does not settle its obligations to the Health Fund for its workers. That's what we're forgetting. That way you also make a big debt. So, I'm on a large part of the health system, there's crime, I can't say, proud, because in these very difficult conditions, in which we're still in place, we've managed as much to care and care for Serbia's citizens' health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7463	Thank you. The word is Mr. Aligrudic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7464	So that there is no misunderstanding, does not mean that it will be paid twice from the Fund, nor does it mean that citizens will pay twice their health insurance. That's figuratively said, and basically that might be even worse. Because if 13 billion debt is taken over, it's taken over as a public debt. Where does public debt come from? From the budget. How do you charge the budget? Tax taxpayers' money. Very simple. I find it more interesting than that question, when we're already asking questions, and I end up with, how is it possible that there's no debt in one part of the system, for example in Šapec, and that in the other part of the system, the debt is unsatisfactory? We asked a question of responsibility. In order to be able to ask a question of responsibility to the end, we have asked in this amendment, colleague, that an integral part of the document of this law be a review of all debts of health institutions, to create an obligation for the Government to do so, because it is the beginning of determining someone's responsibility for it. That's the essence of the story. Of course double payments are made from the same register. There are more cash registers, but all these cash registers are being poured out of our pockets as taxpayers. It's not a dispute, it's just that the money disappears somewhere, and it's being spent on something that the citizens didn't ask for. You buy something at both prices in ways and in quantities that are not planned, which are not foreseen. Did anyone ask you, us as health care users, if that's how it's done? Obviously not.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7465	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again just to make it easier to understand, the Republic Health Insurance Institute will know at the end of the year how much debt each institution has made. Now it's known to this moment, but of course it's changed for the reasons we've all talked about here today. The document on how much the institution owes is delivered to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Government. I undertake to deliver that document to the MPs as well. At the moment when we have a definitive document and independent of all parliamentary issues, MPs will have insight into the debt of every health institution in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7467	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. (Radojko Obradovic, from the place: Can I be the bearer of the amendment? Sir, you'll get your word, but we'll go in order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7468	I checked in with the Rules of Procedure, thank you, but I think it's already too late. I called back when there was an argument between my colleagues. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. - every MP is obliged to talk about the subject. I don't know why it got lost at some point. We have a very important amendment, a very important thing. We finally got the answer, and I thank you for that. I think it's a great thing, and we're finally gonna get an answer and who's what and how much he owes. I repeat, it is difficult for you if you are defended by Mr. Radovanovic. I pray he doesn't answer any more, whenever anyone asks you anything, he jumps to defend you. I don't think there's any need, and no meaning, we're all even here and we can talk evenly. Please stick to the order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7469	The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7470	Since it's still about the amendment Mr. Petkovic and I have submitted, I'm not a doctor, I don't know if I have the right to talk about my amendment. If I do, then I'll continue. I support what you said. You have actually accepted our amendment, but Mr. Petkovic and I have agreed, we will be very happy to change this deadline from 30 to 45 days through the technical order. Let it become an integral part of the law and then an hour-and-a-half debate had some benefit and it was fertile.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7471	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7472	The law provided for certain terms. The Ministry of Finance is firmly in this position. The government has accepted the Ministry of Finance's position and, unfortunately, I cannot accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7473	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Zoran Radovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7474	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members, if I was not understood by my fellow Member when I said that he had no right to speak about the health care law because he was not close to the subject, it was that every member of Parliament had an authority to do something and talk about it in that context. I'm trying to explain, if a colleague realized that badly, to apologize to him, even though I see him waving there, but okay, he'll probably...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7475	Mr. Radovanovic, you've called about the amendment and please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7476	I had to answer. Here, I'm talking about the amendment. I'm talking about the amendment based on what my colleague Zelenovic would say, because I'm authorized to talk. I'm reporting when something is badly interpreted by other parliamentary groups. I'm not defending the minister, I'm defending the amendment. We have just received an answer to all the other amendments that have been accepted, and you yourself have seen in the proposal how many amendments have been accepted. It was also the opinion of the Committee on Health and all fellow Members of Parliament in the first part of the debate, that the Ministry and the Committee would accept all the amendments they had come up with and they were accepted. What doesn't fit can't be accepted. I've tried to explain things as a doctor, but if you don't understand, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7477	Thank you. The word is Mr. Aligrudic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7478	I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7479	Thank you. The People's MP Miroljub Stojcic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7480	Madam Chairman, the SPS parliamentary group will vote for this law, not because it is the SPS minister, but simply because it sees that the adoption of this law is the only solution to coming out of this problem that awaits us in the coming period. In fact, it is clear to all of us that neither this ministry nor this government, nor this Assembly, has led to a debt, according to drug manufacturers and large-scale drugs, of 13 billion dinars, but the fact that this ministry, this government and this Assembly need to find a solution to get out of this problem. The effects of passing this law are indeed multiple. First, the fact is, what fellow Mijatovic was also talking about, that by passing this law and paying this amount of 13 billion dinars...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7481	Mr. Stojcic, we've finished the debate in principle, so if you can return to the amendment, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7482	The fact is, with these 13 billion dinars, we're going to unload medical facilities first, relax them to get into normal procedures regarding the purchase and payment of drugs. I would ask the Minister's office to ensure, indeed, that in the coming period, it is regularly and in accordance with the new laws that will be passed on the payment of the medicines. What is really, I think, very important and what needs to be said today, is that these 13 billion dinars, and that's what Minister Dinkic said when he was here, will go directly to the drug manufacturers. In that sense, I really think that today we should be unique in terms of passing this law, because this is the only way we can provide enough medicine for our patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7483	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7484	We're talking about health care facilities, hospitals making debts that they didn't pay, so the fund didn't cover up by your estimate 13 billion dinars of obligations to suppliers. Why wasn't that done? Why are there so many debts? That's the key question. Probably the reasons for that are, which was either not well planned, or the items have been broken, or something multiple prices have been obtained, but is currently on the market, based on which plans have been made. I'll only list two specific cases where the money from the Health Fund has been poured out, so you'll probably assess whether it's true or whether you'll do something about it. The first case where money was poured out uncontrollably is public procurement for dialysis apparatus, or dialysis material for diabetics. In the first 10 months of last year, on the basis of public procurement, according to the amended rules on the purchase of dialysis material, this country has been damaged by at least 150 million dinars. How? By probably agreeing with one of the lobbyists for a particular company, the fund changed its rules and predicted that dialysis material was obtained exclusively for certain appliances produced directly by one producer. Now, he drew in a tender who can win and who can be a supplier. Since the conditions of the tender were thus foreseen, of course the prices of this supplier for dialysis material were multiple and that all other bidders were rejected because they did not meet the conditions because the drawing which particular supplier could meet all the conditions of the competition was drawn. So, I said on that basis, 150 million dinars in 10 months last year turned down more than a few taxpayers than needed. The other bases are hyperbaric chambers. There are only four hyperbaric chambers in the state's health care, I'm told, with one location, three KBC Zemun and one at the Gambigrad Bane. In addition, there are four locations in Serbia of private hyperbaric chambers with 12 seats, and the Health Fund has agreed with one and the other to use hyperbaric chambers where private ones with 12 seats. One treatment lasts an hour, or 48 patients per hour, times at least eight hours a day is about 400 patients a day, times at least 250 days, it comes about 10,000 treatments and times 80 euros as much as it costs one treatment. It's about millions of numbers that are gone, and that didn't go, for example, to public health. To make the paradox bigger, the one-week chamber at the Gambigrad spa was next to the 10 beds it was supposed to make for the benefit of the patients, only three with the Health Fund. These are only two illustrative examples, and you can see on them where the money from the Health Fund was poured out and why these debts were created. Another reason why a large number of doctors working in public health work in parallel and private. For example, an illustrative case to say in the territory of the city of Nis, unfortunately and the misfortune of this people over a year over two thousand abortions were carried out. Of these two thousand abortions, only 50 were performed in state and the rest in private institutions. The prices of abortion aren't low. Why is that happening? Because those who work in public health naturally referred patients to private offices to pay there and to take much more money. In all other areas, it's the same situation. Until private and public health is separated in the sense that one and the same man cannot work in both state and private offices there will be no end to such minuses as will be made in health funds, in hospital budgets. This debt will be covered at the moment. Is it going to be the same in a year? They will, of course. Because there will be uncontrollable public procurements like these in the previous period and because those who work in public health will transfer patients to their private offices. As long as it doesn't get in the way of such a robbery, there will always be a minus in the state register. In addition to what you said you'd make a record of what and how much you owed, I ask you to examine all cases of suspicious public procurement in health care, and there are hundreds of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7485	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7486	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Chairman, I'm reporting as a patient, so I'm not a doctor. I thought today we were discussing first and foremost the rights of patients and, accordingly, the rights of doctors to be paid for the services that health care services need to have their own personal incomes, because they treat patients. I thought the patients were in the first place, and it turns out the doctors were in the right place, and the patients were in the second. The reason is, most likely because we have too many doctors in the congregation. In the state of Serbia, about 30 to 40% of people live in the country, farmers and have one representative, i.e. My little one. So, almost, what some would say from the opposition, they don't have one when it comes to me because I'm not worth anything. Probably by them. But people from the village have one representative, doctors obviously have far more. Given all that, I think we patients have some rights too, and I want to make a statement to the next one. I will vote as a representative of a small peasant folk party and I will certainly vote that this debt that was made in health, which we will only determine how it came into existence, one fine day when it rained, means we will most likely not determine that these debts were incurred during the government and the former regime, but we will turn these commitments into public debt, which means the debt of all citizens. We'll transfer it to a dead mare and see who pays that public debt. It will not only be paid by those who are insured, it will not only be paid by healthcare users, but will be paid by all citizens, including those who did not have the right to treat this cost. So, it will be paid by those who have not enjoyed any degree of health care or by those who have fully treated themselves privately, without any services by the health care of the Republic of Serbia. I want to say next. There's nothing you can do about it. It can only be in politics, in real life it can't. So, in politics from someone who's nobody, and there's nothing you can do, so now that you've identified yourself in this, you've identified yourself, I've said and I've somehow cleaned my soul. But in health care, you have to have money. In order to have money, we have to earn it. At least we in the country know that for certain purposes, we have to set aside for public consumption, or for health care, that we have to make some money, and we have to earn that money first. What I'm saying is that our business system, here doctors can argue how many homes of health they're going to get, how many health care institutions are going to get the money, which is going to get a medical facility that's going to get more drugs, which is going to get more forgiveness of debts. You can argue there for days but you won't fix the state of health until we agree together to create a new state of Serbia that will be a country of chance. So where, among other things, people will be available and health care, so free health care, like schooling, as well as other things. Also, I want to say that there have been a lot of abuses, that health has been used in the election campaign, so most likely the product of all of this and the increased number of doctors in this assembly, not wanting anyone to, because of their professional interest, to reduce their value, therefore, the structure itself is a little bit against the electoral body, but this is most likely the result of the fact that health is a little more politicised than it should be. For example, with me in India in the House of Health, they regularly organize health bases for the elections, where they participate in the benefit of a party that is no longer in power now, they have organized health bases...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7487	Mr. Risticevic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7488	I'm on the subject, so are these debts, I mean 13 billion, because health has been used for political purposes, there's a shared propaganda material, among other things, it's verifiable, at the expense of the House of Health in India, I got a call, because I objected, in the interest of my health, to check on such a political health base. So that telegram I have at home, he's paid from the Health Fund on the cost of that home of health and I'm totally in the dark. I'm afraid we need to eliminate the politicisation of health first, and then a little bit turn our sleeves, not our hands, to make some money, so that a certain percentage of the social product goes into health care, and then we'll remove all the problems and differences that doctors have between them on the party lines. Thank you, as a patient.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7489	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7490	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I must say that I am really shocked that this law came after the 2013 draft budget. What it says in this bill, we haven't found anywhere in the budget for next year. The Colorado comes Saturday, believe me, when we vote in the same day on payment deadlines and on these laws, where absolutely, if this law is passed, the law Mr Dinkic so proudly spoke of a few days ago will be repealed. We didn't get an answer from you how there was a figure of 13 billion dinars and we demand that it be found in this law. We offered a solution to make it part of the legal text within a certain time limit, to know exactly who owes who in this country to whom. Unfortunately, we didn't get an answer to that question, but you said that the Serbian government was being blackmailed, forced to make the health care system work, to decide on this step. This is not paid by the government, this is paid by Serbian citizens, patients, all those people who pay health contributions to health insurance. Therefore, it is the money of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I therefore insist on this, not as a parliamentary group in the opposition that has the desire to release health workers from work here today or otherwise disabling and disabling the quality health care of our citizens. This law continues the unconditional rescue of individual levels of government by the state. There's no Republican Health Insurance Fund in the budget. Tell me what year the Health Fund didn't make a debt, what year didn't create a deficit, what year did someone answer, because those funds were spent, what plans were broken? Does this mean, if these laws are adopted, the Republic Health Insurance Fund will not have any debts in 2013. I assume you have it planned. I'm sure it won't happen and we'll know exactly what that amount is in six months. I asked Mr Dinkic in the budget debate whether this amount of funding, and you defined it to 13 billion, and according to all data, it amounts to over 30 billion, even 32 billion. Why didn't it get into the deficit? That's the hidden part. That's what we don't know from the budget, it appeared a few days after the Republic's budget was adopted. I don't think it makes any sense for us to increase public debt in order to, on the basis of a debt to pay for these delays, take over these delays, only to show how much it will cost the state, but it will encourage healthcare institutions to continue to behave irrationally. Here, a colleague said that certain health centres function without any problems, no debts, no employment past the contract, and on the other hand, we have some billions-long centres. That's what we asked for with this amendment, we're asking that we know exactly who owes it. Which is why some of the majors went down, which is why Velefarm went bankrupt? Which is why some companies can't work because they haven't been paid. You said you found anarchy, but it wasn't that anarchy that came up at once. You said there was some backup fund, and how big is it? You say 66 billion is due to the Republic Fund. Who owes? The failed companies that broke down like popcorn that are in bankruptcy from which you won't be able to charge in the next period. You're talking about some billions, like it's going to come to the account of the Fund, where it's going to be covered, and you know it's impossible and it's not going to happen. I'm talking about 13,600 employees in the middle of a contract with the Republic Fund. These were people who were ready to sign individual parliamentary lists at local level in election campaigns, which were turned into a voting machine of a particular movement that had become a party the other day, to cross the censorship in certain municipalities. It's simple. Let's not lie about it. No one's pushing these people into the street, no one's arguing that they're doing their job in quality, we've heard 500 nurses are missing in Serbia, and you know what conditions they're working on. This is not where you need to come, to pray and to appeal to the director of health institutions, to behave rationally, but to get recognition from those who do well. Mr. Radovanovic said, three months, they're probably waiting for 100 days to pass, so you'll get a medal because you've been doing this job so well for the first three and a half months, but those people who made these debts, who are responsible for this situation, are responding, because if we want to protect all those people who are doing their job honestly and honestly, not to be the only problem in this country is health and justice, and let us deal with it as much as we do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7491	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7492	The lawyers would probably agree that this is not a law that will last long, because it has a limited fact. It's not even a lex specialis, a special health law, this is a lex individualis, so the law that currently solves an acute problem, but does not solve it permanently, and the fire that broke out for various reasons, it only partially shuts down. Anyone who thinks that the discussion is, as it goes along, somehow the main facts and main problems puts into the plan and they are now very visible, anyone who thinks that this is an attack on the medical staff who cares about the health of the population, who performs a very important social function, is not correct in his performance. For what? Because the public debt created for the reasons we've all talked about will be paid by people who don't have health insurance and who don't use public insurance, and then people who are being treated privately will pay for those who haven't paid their contributions to health insurance, but those who have paid for their contributions to health insurance and therefore there is interest in both the public and all the MPs. I think that a colleague from the ruling majority pointed out what we said in the debate in principle and if it doesn't solve this problem systematically, we're going to fire that hasn't been extinguished, because part of the debt is only regulated by this, we're going to have it for a year, and without any intention to discourage private pharmacies. The introduction of a doctor's prescription, the possibility of being used in private pharmacies as of January 1st is a good measure, but the question is raised by one of the colleagues, and I pointed out...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7493	Mr. Chiquiriz, time's up for your MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7494	Okay, here I am ending right now, how in this general atmosphere people who have family business and private pharmacies will give medications to medical prescriptions, aware of the burden of charge of RZO.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7495	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 15th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Health Protection Law, in particular. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Nebojsa Zelenović, Janko Veselinović, Teodora Vlahović, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Irena Vujić, Zoran Antic, Zoran Antić, Marko Atlagić, Igor Bečić, Igor Bečić, Nebojša Berić, Branislav Blažić, Jelena Budimirović, Ljubica Vasić, Irena Vujić, Nina Girić, Aleksandra Đurović, Milinko Zivković, Stefan Zanković, Biljana Ilić Stošić, Milanka Jević, Jadranka Joksimović, Dragomir Karić, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Kljević, Milan Ković, Tobašović, Radmilo Kostić, Miodrag Lintak Linta, Saša Maksim Maksimović, Mir Maksimović, Mir Marković, Mir Marković, Vesna Marković, Vesna Marković, Pav, Pavna Markov, Drag, Predrag, Predrag, Predrag, Predrag, Drag, Miljadrag, Miljadrjanažović, Mil, Miljadjadjadjadić, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Radjadić National MPs Mileta Poscurica, Milan Knezevic, Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic, Ninoslav Girić, Branislav Blažić, Predrag Mijatović and Aleksandar Radojevic, written on 5 December 2012, withdrew the amendment to Article 9. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is, in accordance with Article 163. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected new members of the 3a, 3b and 3v, which were proposed to add new members of the 3a, 3b and 3v to the amendment, which was proposed to add new members of the 8a and amendments of the National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Bojana Bozanic to the new article 8b after Article 8. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milica Radovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7496	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened very carefully to my colleague, Marijan Risticevic, because what he was saying, the DSS parliamentary group, also translated into the amendment. We felt that among those who needed to get greater rights, that is, health care should be farmers. We handled it by the fact that the committee minister said that whenever she opened the law, she wanted to extend her rights by another category. We thought that this was a category that really deserves those rights, especially that in that group of these extended rights, was a group of single parents up to seven years old, which is a constitutional category, but we'd like those kids to be at least 18 years old, that's a very small number of people. Why are we based on this story about farmers? It is that it is not a pre-election campaign, and in the pre-election campaign everyone is talking to them, we thought that this category of people should really talk, because we had one study on health in rural Serbia and we came up with data that the rural population has a number of problems in the use of healthcare services, particularly insufficient availability of health services, insufficient coverage of the population with health insurance and inadequate access to healthcare services. Of course, the survey says that only 41% of Serbia's villages have hospitals and, of course, you now have very precise data here, that there are 87% of villages in Vojvodina, in central Serbia 33, in western Serbia 27, in southeastern Serbia 20. That percentage of 41 isn't the same everywhere. Therefore, it is not surprising that 41% of respondents pointed out that living in the village prevents them from visiting the doctor and when necessary and how long it takes. That's very important to say. Then, differences in the representation of persons without health insurance, they occur between regions and especially between agricultural, mixed and non-agricultural households. Of course, it is always Vojvodina, which precedes it in this sense, that it has the least people without health insurance, that western and central Serbia is on average 13%, and that in Southeast Serbia there is the highest 16% of people who do not have health insurance. Those who live only from agriculture are mostly those who do not have health insurance. Of course, there are more men here than women. Now imagine this information that is fragrant. 50% of the subjects in this study say they are being treated alone. It's about the rural environment, it's about poor people, it's about people who are being discriminated on various grounds. Only 28% of them pay for private health services, 27% are only treated in hospitals and health homes. So 27% of our farmers are only being treated in their homes of health. Next, I have a study concerning my municipality of Valjevo. In a village just six kilometers from the city center, 137 people came for medical examination. They had 37 health books. The other 100 had health books, which came from the Federative Republic of Yugoslavia, up to some of the other books there. So that's why we thought it was necessary to expand this category of people.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7497	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7498	Dear Members, allow me to agree that farmers are not really even and when they are secured by the exercise of all their health insurance rights. For example, a farmer who is operated on cardiovascular disease has no right to compensation, and someone who is not in the rural environment has the right to be sick. We intend to change that, of course, and we'll change that, and after severe cardiovascular intervention, a farmer can't have a physical effort for at least two months, you know what the job is. In that part, we can agree that this subpopulation of our citizens, farmers, is not equal to insurance rights, or something needs to be done to repair these parameters and I think we are already working in the ministry and I think we will soon find a solution and will participate in that and the Ministry of Agriculture. Your amendment, and regarding Article 22 of the Law, concerns actually those persons who do not have their own income. I must say that farmers who, however, contribute to the lowest base owe at this point 27 billion and 200 million. So those who are formally entitled to insurance were not able to make their commitment, though, as well as legal persons, as well as entrepreneurs, who all together owe 139 billion, that interest debt is as much. A little while ago, I said it was a debt without interest of 65 billion. So, Article 22, we intend that those persons who are not insurance carriers are protected when it comes to certain rights, immunization, screening techniques, early detection of diseases, and of course we think that single parents of children up to seven years of age, if they don't have their own insurance, should be found in this category. If we put all farmers in, then we would eliminate those who already participate in the insurance process, and the selection between them would be very difficult. The fact that someone has five ha of land, is unable to process, on the one hand, or someone has all a hectare, so it's well organized and it gives him the opportunity to pay his contributions, there are simply no criteria, which would point us to what categories of farmers would be. The fact is that we were unable to discriminate between farmers and other citizens, either positive or negative, and therefore we did not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7499	Thank you. The word is Milica Vojić Markovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7500	Thank you, Madam Minister, for the answer, which only partially satisfied me. It's clear to me that you've inherited a completely ruined system, which one minister of nine years, from one of the parties, has been neatly destroyed, so you can't tell me that you now have the means to fix this situation. But I was counting on your goodwill. If you already have a good will to turn 13.5 billion into public debt, then why don't we think about some public debt, which will allow farmers to get health insurance, of course those who don't have health insurance. I am very familiar with the research of health in rural Serbia, and I know that there are criteria by which Batut worked, maybe you could look at those criteria and be indicators to you, so that this category of people would still have the right, even if it were to enter these programmes that you listed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7501	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7502	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to remind both you and the citizens of Serbia that in 2011, we passed a law by which, when someone starts paying for health insurance, he actually has all the health insurance rights, not eventually entering the outstanding debts of the former employer and anyone, so that there is one measure that is comprehensive and that does not make discrimination on the legislative plan we did here in Parliament in 2011.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7503	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7504	Thank you very much. I'm reporting by amendment of Mrs. Vojic-Markovic. You see, there's two things, we're very broad-minded when we're giving rights to who has the ability to heal with solidarity. If we don't get this wrong, I don't mind these extensions of rights, we need to expand them. But when he shows up, as we discussed earlier, the shortage, then we're very rigorous and we're looking for someone to blame. In this dualism, should we decide whether we want solid health insurance in Serbia or whether we want US insurance? In America, you know what it's like to have insurance, when you spend the money you paid, they say – sir or ma'am, are you going to pay for it or are you going to have a door on the other side? We don't have it. We have solid health insurance, and that's what we need to do, but then we need to realize that we can extend rights, but that we also have to carry a solid debt that this health care is precisely due to some humanity that we need to rise up to, or humanity in, health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7505	Thank you. National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7506	My colleague, I don't know if you understood me correctly, I wasn't talking about the American system, I was talking about the solidarity system, I was talking about the fair system. We come all the way here because someone didn't work fair. The DSS advocates not that we do not work in solidarity and that we treat people in solidarity, but that whoever was making this thing, the very corrupt procedures, the shops, and the like, is responsible for it. Then when he's responsible for it, then we can talk about everything else. As we solidly cover the fact that someone has done such corrupt procedures, we will not be able to talk about honest health care, nor will we be able to talk about the man who paid for health insurance having the right to a health care service. That's what this is about. I don't think you understood me very well in that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7507	Thank you. National MP Predrag Mijatovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7508	Thank you very much. I think I understood you well, and I don't think you'd understand me. I don't think this phone booth or this assembly should go that the health debt was made by corruption. It's not just about corruption. There may have been some corruption, but surely the highest percentage, 90 percent and change, was due to the needs of health institutions. Let's not say that now we have to match those who have made a health deficit. That's exactly the solidarity we were talking about. If we are extending rights, and we need to extend rights, then we must bear together all the debts that the health care has made not by corruption, but by the need of this population to treat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7509	National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7510	A colleague said it wasn't just about corruption. Of course, it's not just corruption. There's corruption in large quantities, but it's not just. That's exactly what we at the DSS are trying to tell you. The system is ruined, it's full of system problems and system failures. Let's see where your problems are and where those mistakes are to fix them, not just starve them, bring the laws that put out the fire. They can't do anything. They're going to put out the fire right now, but the fire's going to come out in a few weeks, because you're being announced everywhere in the paper that there's going to be a shortage of drugs. So we need to talk about it, we need to fix the system, and we need to reform it. The system's not working and it's not working. That's what we're saying. The fight against corruption is what you as a party stand for, what we as a party advocate, and no one has told us here in this room not to stand for it. I'm sorry, if we're all in favour of fighting corruption, go ahead and have someone answer for what he did to corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7511	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7512	The President-in-Office, respected minister, co-worker and fellow MPs, this bill on health care and health insurance is very old and very bad, very conservative. In today's discussion and last week, most of the MPs who discussed it agreed that the law exceeded the needs of Serbian citizens, that it exceeded the needs of Serbia's health system. On behalf of the DS, I call on you, Minister, to in some future period, with consultations with the heads of Parliament, with representatives of parliamentary groups in the health sector, to try to make a reform plan for this system, because this system is not good. If we've just heard that farmers... A colleague tabled an amendment for farmers. So farmers are not equally protected by our health system. A colleague found a hole in the law where a group of our citizens were not adequately protected. We advocate health care that will be made available to all citizens. We have to make such a system that we can't punish these peasants just because they don't have the money to pay that contribution and then they don't have the money to pay the contribution, they don't have the ability to verify the book and they're on ice, they can't enjoy those rights. Personally, I think that besides her colleague, what she said about farmers, it's not just farmers, it's their children and their wives that's the problem. Your mouth is full of both us and you and all of us fighting for children and fighting for women. When a farmer does not pay a contribution, he does not exercise rights either for his child or for his wife. Article 68. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I often quote it, says everyone has the right to protect their physical and mental health. Children, pregnant women, mothers during maternity leave, single parents, etc. have the right to be treated in Serbia. It is that the state is poor, but we need to find a way to make this most basic health care package available to all citizens, even if they do not have health insurance, it is necessary. If someone's sick, I'm betting we don't have a health care system like in America, which is very cruel. Serbia must have a health care system that is available to all citizens and that some basic package is available to everyone. So, not to put someone who doesn't have health insurance, based on whether he's a farmer or if he's a private, so he didn't pay for the contributions, then his children can't be treated either. In particular, in one next discussion, I will address you as the problem of students who cannot be treated either. The subject is an amendment for farmers. I personally support this initiative. I know there's no money in the budget, and I know the law is bad. We need to find a way to find a solution for these people... We all say farmers are the most important thing for Serbia. We're a farm country, we're not some industrial country, farmers are number one. Mr. Risticevic isn't here to defend it now, I'm a doctor, it doesn't matter that I'm not a farmer, that farmer feeds us. He feeds Serbia. Thanks to this farmer, Serbia has endured more than 20 years of economic crisis, has endured bombings, and we have to give that farmer back his dignity, to be treated in the health care system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7513	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Djukic-Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7514	By respecting the principles of obligation, reciprocity and solidarity, it is possible to implement Article 22. So what it is is the fact that the state is also expressing in this poor financial situation a significant level of concern for those who are unable to pay contributions to health care, but it is a fact that the owners of agricultural landowners, who have received large benefits from the state, also do not pay for health insurance. They are problematic to us, because if they did, this principle of obligation, reciprocity and solidarity would give us the opportunity to act even more humanely or, let me say, to be more socially just and to those who are really unable to make contributions. The second topic is that we have very old laws. The basic laws we are talking about today and whose changes we are talking about were passed in 2005. They're not that old, but the dynamics, above all, of financial turbulence in the country, are such that they really require, I dare say again, to put an end to the fire. As long as we don't function financially in another way, there will be no healthy causative thinking and solutions in this area. Health care simply, despite the fact that investment in health is an investment in a healthy man who produces and creates, etc., cannot be considered as consumption. It costs real money, and we all know it, both as patients and as health workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7515	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7516	The esteemed health minister, the president-in-Office, is an excellent amendment from the DSS, and his intention is excellent. I really support this amendment, but it doesn't belong in this law. His place is in the Health Insurance Act. I think everyone here will agree that we need a reform of that health system. I think everyone will agree that there is one problem that they have pointed out with this amendment, which is the status of farmers in the health insurance system. Their status cannot be covered by Article 17 or Article 22, because you have a situation in which someone is in charge of obligations, i.e. for contributions, for payment of health contributions on the basis of the agricultural performance, based on income. He's got to make some income. Someone's got to make some money so they can pay their contributions. Someone earns income from one dinar, how often people make or out of three dinars, and I've had a situation where people bring evidence from the catastra that they have a cadastrian income of seven dinars. It's like ten acres to you. How will someone who has ten acres, who has no garden, who lives in the country pay 27,000 dinars? What's he gonna do if he's got a full-year-old child who's stopped schooling, lives with him in the same household, how are they gonna make two contributions? That means 54,000 a year. From what? We have to deal with these categories of population. You don't offer it anywhere here and that's what's key. Let us see how many earners he makes, how much contributions he makes, or how much income he has so that we can cut off his contributions. Don't let everyone pay the same in Serbia, and whoever has a hundred acres and one who has five acres. If we're talking about solidarity, reciprocity, equality, let's just stick to it. Then you have to tell the truth. What you just said isn't true. It is true that those who have ten acres and those who have ten acres pay the same contribution, and do not earn the same income. They can't make the same income, no matter how valuable and smart and capable they are. Not the same revenue in Vojvodina at ten acres or ten acres and in Pocarina or somewhere in Pomoravlje. To determine that, we need to have a health system reform, a health insurance system, and again, I repeat, there is no here. It doesn't say in these regulations, and that's the most important thing. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7517	The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7518	The subject discussed by the MP is related to the Social Security Contribution Act, and I would like to say that because the catastrian income has not been valorised for a long time, and this cannot be done by the Ministry of Health, yet all one is the obligation of the state, it is estimated that the allocation of health contributions is paid on the lowest basis. What's also important is that a farmer who has 0.5 hectares has the right to be in the category of people who are socially cared for by the state. So, to gain that status. There is a possibility for the poorest farmers, if they have less than 0.5 hectares to address this problem through the status of the person particularly concerned by the state, because it is a person with social needs. The fact that there is no pay base for cadastrian income, the reason why valorisation of cadastrian income is one pretty big bulky job and the state hasn't done it in a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7519	Replica, Mr. Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7520	I'm sorry, but I didn't understand anything. I really didn't understand what you're saying. So now you're saying you need some service in the state to do some big work to make us a little equality, reciprocity, solidarity, right? So some other service in the state is supposed to do that? Which one? Who will do it now, who will you tell? Please do it quickly, because we are burning, people cannot be treated, women die? It's serious stuff, and if we keep moving the burden on someone else, we're not gonna do anything. The other thing, it's not exactly what you said - 0.5 acres. It is the Retirement and Disability Insurance Act, but the Health Insurance Act says – whoever makes the income, in the PIO Fund is in charge of anyone who has a property of half a hectare or 50 acres. They say, "You can grow mushrooms." You can grow in the basement of mushrooms, you can deal with bees, whatever. You're a farmer to us and you have to pay your contributions on the lowest basis. What's a man gonna do, you know what people do? We've got fake population migration. People move even though they don't want to. They move to the city, falsely, applying to addresses in the city to try to avoid payment obligations, because they don't have money and they have to be treated. Let's work it out. Come on, take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7521	The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7522	Mr. MP, the Social Ageing Act protects a farmer who has 0.5 hectares and less. It allows the state to regulate the issue of his health insurance. So, I just said it and I think it's pretty clear. I agree that there is a need to valorise those incomes arising from the status of a man who deals with agriculture. I honestly think the Ministry of Agriculture will deal with this issue and then we'll have a more realistic opportunity not to use payment on the lowest basis, which is not fair, but it's a minor mistake, but to do something else. I was just trying to explain why we didn't make a proposal for a change to go on some other basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7523	Mr. Zelenovic, I won't give you a replica. If you want time from the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7524	I'll be real quick. I really respect your will, and I said it in a debate in principle. You weren't there at the time, unfortunately. I really respect your will and your willingness, but that's not enough. It's not enough, give us some time. Give the citizens of Serbia some time when you'll do it. That when you say we'll do it, we'll write this down, we'll organize this, we'll figure this out, give us some time to know what we can hope for. Or tell me we can't do that, it's very difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7525	The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7526	I won't even tell you how much I respect you. I think the attention I'm focusing on everything you're saying is, in the end, talking about it. I must say, the Law on Contributions solves the essential issues that you and I are talking about. We know he's proposed by the finance minister, and I wouldn't go any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7527	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7528	I'm also trying to understand. The Minister said everything. I'm not sure I understood everything very well. But I understand and thank my colleague Zelenovic for supporting our amendment. We have the same in the Health Insurance and Health Protection Act. So we covered both fields. Madam Minister, I recognize your good will, too, so if you're willing to make your amendment technical, so it can be accepted, we're ready to accept because it's a huge category of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7529	Anyone else want a word? Nobody. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7530	This amendment, or member of the Law, says conditions can be provided for better staff security of health institutions from the budget of the founders of autonomous provinces, cities and municipalities and to provide emergency medical assistance. Any member and any law that starts with – can, in Serbia, mean it will not be applied. I don't know if you're familiar with the work of the Assembly. We have been discussing here for a few days that the Vojvodina budget is not enough for those essential functions that Vojvodina has today, and not that it is still financing health care and health employees, or local self-government, since the government has been cutting them off for several years now, is not enough for winter road maintenance. A billion dinars have been allocated from the Republic's budget to maintain roads in Serbia's municipalities, and the budget explicitly says -- that Alexandrovec is given money to maintain eightkm of road, for the White Church for six kilometers, for India 18km. Now we expect that Indjia, who has no money to maintain 18 kilometers of money, will have money to pay healthcare workers. Well, that sounds nice, but that's not gonna apply any of the municipalities. Secondly, this will make a significant difference in the level of health services. You well know that health homes spend the most, spend on the patient's head four times as much as health homes that spend the least. This amendment creates some possibility of very few cities, if any local self-government will be able to apply, and if it can, it will only create further differences in the level of protection and not create everything we talked about today. On the contrary, it will have a completely opposite effect. We said here - we like the amendment, we're fine. Provide from the budget of the Republic of Serbia what belongs to local self-government under the law and there will be no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7531	Thank you. The word has a minister's name.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7532	Mr. Obradovic, on the initiative of certain municipalities, we have made a proposal for this kind of change and supplementation. Namely, there are those local environments that want to take in a nurse and want to pay for her, which will do field work or do paliative care, or pay out of their resources rather than invest in something else, and we gave that opportunity. That's why it's a very verbal recommendation to adopt this change quite fragile. So, those who have intent may not have any obligation, but if there are environments that they want to invest in the employment of health workers, they simply don't need the law to rule out such an option. So this is the initiative of exactly the local environments we've installed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7533	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7534	I've also asked a parliamentary question on this subject. I'm glad that local self-government has been left with the possibility of paying doctors from their budgets. In order for citizens, and who have the right to do so, to have good, quality and accessible health care, all levels of government and local self-government and provinces and republics must work on this. In the Kovin municipality, we have a problem, because three villages have no general doctors. In one village, the doctor comes only for two days, and in many villages people spend all day in order to conduct a simple checkup or their children have to drive buses, they often have no car or money for transportation, to the Covin Health House and some in one direction over 25 kilometers. On the other hand, I'll tell you in the case of my own municipality, the Kovin Municipality under the Law on the financing of local self-government gets about 140 million dinars more than before. The doctor's gross salary is about a million and a half dinars per year, and I really think that, and we're one poor municipality, can single out enough funds to pay for a doctor who'll cover these villages for at least one day that don't have a doctor. It happens that, say, on Sundays, patients can't take penicillin injections because there's no doctor in the home of health. Now imagine you need to go 50 kilometers for one injection. I really think that if we organize well, if the money is distributed thriftfully and rationally, the municipalities can pay the doctors. Second, let's say the Covin Health House has 25 million own funds and 30 million from the pharmacy. It's just a question of how money is spent, do I know of any things or in the interest of the citizens? As for the AP Vojvodina, we have indeed heard here how many missing doctors and hospitals. I'm sorry, the New Sad administration is too big for me. Let's cut it down a little bit, and let's pay the doctors at the hospitals in Vojvodina. Also, I won't agree with the fact that, say, the Panchea hospital, where almost all the citizens of South Banat, the third largest in Vojvodina, are treated, looks like a ruin, let's say the hospitals in Novi Sad, look like space shuttles. Of course it should, but I want the money to be spent evenly, that all citizens, whether they live in the smallest village, Belgrade, Novi Sad, must have that basic health care. I'll never agree that there's no money for that, even in the municipalities. They must save on the other side and not allow their parents to drive 50 miles [50 km] to receive basic health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7535	Thank you. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7536	Replication to the Minister's presentation. We fully supported the possibility that local self-governments could employ and finance all those functions they were given. We just said that the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which has been made unjustly, is being distributed unfairly, that the Fund's budget which is not made should be able to fund all of this equally in those municipalities that they have and which they do not have. I fully support you that the AP funds are used not on purpose, that there are excess administrations and that's the real theme. That's exactly what we wanted to talk to you about. What has money needs to be spent most efficiently and then invested in the right priorities and the right things. There's a saying in England or a rule called pie making, and that rule is, in order for someone to get a bigger slice of pie, someone has to get a smaller slice of pie. Unfortunately, since we have a smaller and smaller pie in Serbia, it would be good to have it all on equal terms, but it can't. It is precisely our intensity of the amendment that we try to make it possible for all citizens of Serbia to be equal, not to be more equal in Novi Sad and Belgrade, unlike Covin, Dimitrovgrad or elsewhere. That's exactly the amendment the government refused was meant to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7537	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Slavica Saveljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7538	Also, I will support the position of the health ministry and the Serbian government. I think it's very good that local self-government is given the opportunity to finance a number of health workers. Why am I insinuating "possibility"? Because this is one of the few rules that, in the middle of the financial year, has not only decided local self-governments, but has given them the opportunity to comply with their capabilities, in accordance with their needs to assess whether they are capable of carrying it out. We have mostly started to decentralisation from the decentralisation of obligations and have imposed every little by one new obligation on local self-government without adequately following the transfer of dedicated transfers. So in this sense, I support the Minister of Health, which, through this legislation, has given local self-government the opportunity. So she didn't make one explicit commitment. I believe that out of so many local self-governments in Serbia, everything will not be in the same position to support or apply this legal act, but there are 157 health homes in Serbia. I'm sure some local self-government here will find an opportunity to comply with this law and act. So we will not support the amendment, considering that this proposal, which you have made, is more appropriate for this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7539	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted the 3rd amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7540	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, we will agree that taking care of the health care system in Serbia is the original state business. We agreed that the Health Fund was destroyed, as one of our colleagues said, above all, because there was no clear control of the inflow of funds, which was not a clear control of how these funds were being spent. That is why now 13 billion dinars of the funds of all Serbian citizens paying on any basis of the budget, you are turning it into a public debt. You said that by adopting these laws, you would be better able to control yourself, that you would bring this system into order. We want to believe you, but in six months we'll ask you here if you did what you promised here. Mr. Obradovic just spoke, this is another member of the "can" squad. We at the DSS absolutely have nothing against what you want in this way to increase responsibility and autonomous provinces, and cities and municipalities, if they have the opportunity to take on certain obligations and if they can finance them. We ask the question: Where does the money come from to those municipalities and to those cities that will not be able to cover all that this law foresees? Where will a small municipality be defined as a budget to organise an emergency service, for example, in some mountainous region of the Republic of Serbia? That is why we have proposed that these powers be financed from the transfer funds under the Law on Local Self-Government. I remind you that in the last five years, Mr Cvetkovic's government, a substantial amount of transfer funds has been abolished by local self-government. In over 100 municipalities and cities, we have filed criminal charges against then current Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic and the finance minister, who was at that time, because they cut off funds from our local self-government, because there is life beyond Belgrade, south down, that some citizens live there, that they too should lie down, that they should also clean roads and that their local self-government should function normally. The independent judiciary, Mrs. Malovic, did not respond to that. We'll see if Selakovic changes anything in that direction. So we ask, we leave the possibility that those who can, let them do it. Those who can't, give them the opportunity, at least for these urgent things to get funds out of the budget, so they can organize such an important service as an ambulance, and of course, some other things. No one argues that if there are funds, to hire a healthcare professional, a nurse, a dental technician, or I don't know who already. It wasn't the idea of this amendment at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7541	The word has Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7542	Your Honor, I would very much agree with you if your proposal did not mean an increase in the budget. If there was more money, everything you said was ideal and I'd be much more comfortable working as a minister, this job.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7543	Mr. Petkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7544	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I'm afraid we didn't understand each other. With this amendment, we are not asking for more resources in the budget at all. There is no need for greater funds in the budget, it is necessary to control how funds are spent in the budget, that they are spent rationally, that they are not wasted, not by certain privileged municipalities, depending on whose party leader has his own mayor in some place, can get bigger funds for both road maintenance and health care and some projects, and we chickens that do not have their own representatives in the government, for example, do not need to get a dinar. That's what this is about. Under the planned budget, if rationalisation is made, spending funds in new employment, then enough funds can be found for this as well. These criminal charges will be dealt with, I say, by the courts of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7545	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7546	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Minister, fellow MPs, when we talk about this member, I think we're ignoring a problem that is basically such legal solutions, which is that when the central level of government doesn't have enough money that what it is is the jurisdiction of the central authorities is financing, then we have a transfer of jurisdiction to local self-government. We have a mouthful of this centralization, and in fact we decentralised some jobs and responsibilities when the central level of government says - we no longer have money for this. It would be very good if the central level of government, if the republican budget could finance what they are normative, what is the minimum of a standard, and then to tell local self-governments – if you have opportunities, you can do more. With that, that's what I want to warn you, which then we can get into a situation like that. The Constitutional Court says it's unconstitutional. Unfortunately, we have no understanding of the highest judicial authorities of this government, what is decentralisation, what is the obligation of central levels, what is the obligation of local authorities? With us when some city or municipality have funds or lead such a policy that, for example, They want to strengthen some social security rights, they want to protect them better, for example. Some groups of citizens, such as low-income pensioners, when they want their additional innovative measures financed, are then unconstitutional. We have several problems, from not understanding what is the role of central and local levels of government, to the problem that the central level of government does not always have enough resources to fund what is their jurisdiction, to make local self-governments that can do something more disqualified as non-constitutional authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7547	Minister Djukic Dejanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7548	Ladies and gentlemen, once a good practice precedes legal provisions. The mayor, Mr. Gilas, actually without a legal basis did something that was very useful. He received a significant number of doctors in Belgrade's health homes, and we are legalizing it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7549	The word has a national emissary, Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7550	Again, I would like to stress that the important and good organisation of the homes themselves is the health care of the locals. The Ministry can't worry about everything. That's what the directors of the health care homes are responsible for. I really can't make peace with the fact that I've been listening to excuses why you should take, I don't know, six drivers and get paid by your own means, and you can't take a doctor for a village, so parents don't bring sick kids into town? Also, any local self-government can find so much savings to pay for a doctor. I live in the Covin itself, but I really do have an understanding for these people from the village. Are we going to allow, can be saved on another side – are we going to separate the money for planting flowers and embellishing parks, or are we going to pay the doctor for the village? Excuse me, please, it's a moral issue and responsibility of local self-government. As for the province level, I would also ask that he pay attention to those hospitals and those places in the interior. Last year, we had a promise from the circuit secretary that it would start renovating, for example. An internal department in Pancheva. That's what we heard in 2009. That's not gonna happen. Was there money in the budget? Of course it is. I'd like to ask questions and responsibilities and morality here, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7551	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7552	Dear Minister of Health, I have submitted this amendment and I have suggested that the positions one and four be deleted. Why? To introduce a change like this, it means that everything works. It's all working out, and then let's upgrade it a little bit more to who has the money. That's not really the case with us. I don't support this, and that's why I asked for those provisions to be deleted. I do not support the way in which the problem is solved, by giving us the power to create the health policy of the people at the place, without having previously a health policy at the level of the Republic. I expect a health policy at the level of the Republic, so when we meet all the standards that we wrote ourselves and brought them here and brought them together, then we can go over and then agree, so as much as we can. In this case, with the measures proposed like this, we're showing that there's no order in the system. You know, I don't see any order here. We don't have any money here, now let's go around the bar and figure out how you know how to do it, so whoever it is, that's what it's gonna be. I don't want to justify anyone's moves, but you're sending this message directly to the citizens -- you're moving where it's better, you guys go to Belgrade, and you're all treating yourself there because it's great, and you can get there as well as anyone can. My question for you – will you run a health policy or will the mayors run a health policy? I suggest you take her, so when you bring her to one level where she should be, if you're capable of it, then the mayors will go as far as they can. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7553	Minister Djukic Dejanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7554	Every health minister is incomparably more successful if he cooperates with the mayors.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7555	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted the 4th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7556	Our amendment concerns funding, as it mentions very important expert committees that will have very important tasks and should be organised by the Public Health Office. It's some kind of new jurisdiction, but no means of functioning have been provided. It's said the funds already exist. How do they exist? That means they've had some surpluses that they've been spending irrationally so far. If there were funds, then there must be something wrong. I must note that when such members are proposed by the opposition, then it is declared populism. When the government proposes, it's the right policymaking. I'm surprised you didn't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7557	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? There's a Mrs. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7558	Your amendment is absolutely in line with the text which says that additional funds are provided in the budget of the Ministry of Health, i.e. in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is essentially the budget line that will provide this. We think that the draft text of the law, i.e. the amendment and addition of the law, essentially contains what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7559	Thank you. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7560	I agree with you. I will read the text of the law: "The Public Health Institute established for the territory of the Republic provides professional, administrative and technical services for the work of the Republic, expert commissions. "Where did you find what was in my amendment, I really don't know?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7561	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The Government and the Committee on Health and Family have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7562	Thank you. Madam Minister, this member refers to the acquisition and availability of medical institutions and private practices. Now that's where you list the resources. With this amendment and its addition, we have tried to give you a free hand to implement this article in such a way as to benefit from the functioning of health institutions and patients who will be treated in them, so that you can bring in a sublegal act, or edit this area. In my opinion, there can be amazing things. I don't know if you know, can you tell us the information – how much space is not used at this point in health care? We've been trying to calculate, but about 30% of the space in the health care homes hasn't been put into operation. I was looking at the contribution the other night from the Serbian Clinical Center. For years, one building of seven floors has been empty. With this article, or amendment, we asked that this be deleted, rather than put into operation all that space that exists for the benefit of people who will be treated in these health institutions, that the funds we talked about, when saved and used rationally, can be repaired. Of course, we don't think that by issuing this space you're going to open casinos or I don't know what you're doing in hospitals and health centers. It's unserious to say that it's now turning into some catering facilities, trades, shops, and that it looks like a circus in clinical centres and health facilities, but to try to equip that area and put it into function, which is why it's built. Unfortunately for decades, every new government that has been coming, and Mr. Cvetkovic, and this new one, has promised to put it into effect. The gentleman who was a nine-year-old minister, so he resigned, he said every year – now we're going to start, now the funds have arrived, guarantees are provided, we have loans, just to withdraw, all of this will flourish. Nothing moved. The other day, I saw bare walls, pillars and concrete in the Serbian Clinical Center.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7563	Thank you. There's a Mrs. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7564	Mr. MP, income acquisitions are regulated by the Budgetary Assets Act and it's all actually public revenue. Any health care institution may request the ministry's consent to use space for the purposes it wants, and it gets such consent. So it's completely regulated. I'm going to take the opportunity to say that Article 159a of position 6 provides for the means to carry out the work, and it's meant to be public health institutions, to be provided from the means of compulsory health insurance. So, that's my colleague Obradovic's answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7565	Thank you. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7566	You just confirmed what I said. The funds are provided, but when they get new functions, they need to get new funds. It is not possible for the Fund's budget, which is being filled most from employees' contributions, around 70%, and then from the PIO Fund, to remain negligible. If he's got fewer and fewer employees, it's pretty clear what that fund's gonna be. In addition to what you said, and as Mr. Petkovic said, an international study has done an analysis of the use of space in health homes. I assume you're familiar with her. In Serbia's health homes, the offices occupy only 43% of the space, laboratories only 3.8%, pharmacies 3.5%, and not medical space is used with 46.8%. When we talk about this little asset, about this little cookie, then this information is quite warning for us and it says that these laws don't solve essential problems and that we're just going to talk about essential health problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7567	Thank you. There's a Mrs. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7568	The public health institution in Serbia has 23, headed by the Institute of Public Health Batut, will be financed from the budget, from the Republic Health Insurance Institute and will have the opportunity to acquire certain means of functioning on the market as well. What we didn't seem to be doing well, which is that mostly during the previous period were left to the battles on the market. So, the moment the employees of such significant institutions struggle for their salaries through different forms of competence, in a commercial sense, then the entrusted business of the state comes second and their realization. In this regard, we have made a move to ensure that they have largely the resources from both the budget and the Republic Health Insurance Office. I think they're very happy with these changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7569	Thank you. Mr. Obradovic, you can ask for time from the parliamentary group, if you like. (Radojko Obradovic, from the post: The minister answered completely wrong. The minister answered your question. If you'd like to waste your time with the MPs' group, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7570	I would ask the minister to read what the Fund wrote in the light of his budget. It says it all the opposite of what she told us.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7571	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 54 MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party group submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. There's a Mrs. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7572	I'd like to say that our idea of centralizing public procurement in health care is this way. We've talked about this a lot. We had a dilemma that actually needs to be an entity that deals directly with procurement. Members of the various, let me say, political structures, including here on the Committee on Health and during the debate in principle, thought aloud that it might be more appropriate for the entity doing this to be at the Republic Health Insurance Office. Also, I think so. That is why I have proposed this amendment to the Government to accept and the Government has accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7573	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7574	I'll be brief on this amendment. So, yes, it's the result of the conversations that were conducted here. What I find still inconsistencies is this. So it's clear that no centralised public procurement should be made at the Ministry, because the Fund is the one who pays, so it's logical to get one. The problem, however, arises in the second sector. I'll get back to you later on and I'll talk about it. It's in that other law. So what's the Fund's jurisdiction? There's a lot of illogicality here, and we'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7575	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7576	Our amendment just pointed to this key illogicality. Why would the Ministry do centralised public procurement? It's very important to me that you accept and give up such an idea. The Ministry couldn't really do that. I don't know how that idea was born, because the Ministry has 330 employees, and this is more than a billion euros in various purchases, which is prescription drugs, which is without prescription, various equipment, and who knows how many tens of thousands of items to be obtained through the process. It's much better to do it in the Fund. Of course, we did not challenge the need, for there is a serious problem with the purchase. There's an idea that through the economy, the volume will be able to provide a lower value and a more favourable supply, but we're expressing the reserve. Time will show how much it will be possible to carry out this procedure by vertical. We think it's a pretty hard thing to do. I've spoken to the public procurement agency people, in Western Europe, through centralised public procurement, only 5 to 10% of all needs for different areas are obtained. They're pretty skeptical of that possibility. I'm saying, of course, we didn't want to argue with our amendment. We said, "It's logical that the Fund does it." Why would the Ministry do that? The Ministry doesn't need to deal with the team, the Ministry should run politics. We did not dispute the need and attempt to secure supply through centralised procurement. We have serious reserves on how it's going to work on the ground, because the Fund wasn't able to control this public debt, too, if you will, that we talked about today. The fund was unable to control these 13.5,000 employees beyond those contracts. The fund can't control a lot of other things, so we're not sure how these contracts are going to work, but the time is ahead, so we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7577	The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7578	I'd just like to remind you that the government is going to use the regulation to tell which products, which are the drugs and the contents that are going to go, which is exactly what the hospitals are getting themselves. It is for thinking and for a certain reserve the whole process, especially when in these circumstances, when you first have a desire to actually solve the problem of perception that health corruption is huge, somehow focusing on procurement. One of the ideas, to be quite honest, one of the motives to try to solve this this way was the tendency of anti-corruption. That absolutely doesn't need to be hidden. What is a fact, it is that Serbia's Clinical Centre has organised a procurement for, for many elements, a third of Serbia's needs. So that times two times three.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7579	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will work after 18.00 hours, in order to be effective in the work of the National Assembly, that is because of the need for proposals from the agenda of this session to be carried out as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break for an hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7580	We're going back to work. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7581	Dear President, Minister of Health, I think this shows the absence of real politics. So, now that you're an institute like the Staff Plan, you're getting into the law, it means that you're trying to literally take over the entire health frame system and sort of adopt it. That's why I asked this article 8 to be deleted because I don't think there's any need for you to do that. We've got a network plan of facilities, we've got standard personnel, equipment and everything, and eventually we've got public health institutions. So we have all the necessary institutions to deal with health care personnel. Now, despite all these institutes and institutions, we are now introducing your ex post power, so that you decide whether there will be employees of people in some institution over normatives in accordance with normative or below normative. That at the level of the year, you decide where to go. We did this bad policy, or at least I met her, while the people of the U.S., former ministers, led it, I had this kind of thing in one situation. One staff plan for a health care facility, which I had in my hand, one in the institution itself, one in the ministry, or three different institutions, three different personnel plans that involve the will of a man who decides at the Ministry of Health whether there will be three more or five doctors more or three sisters. So I believe that it is your obligation to make it possible for everyone in Serbia to see what is normal and especially for the MPs. When we have standard personnel, equipment, meeting conditions, then we have institutions like the Public Health Office in every environment that will go well through all institutions and say – this institution meets the conditions, this one does not, this one lacks specialists, doctors and the like. I don't see why another level where you'll have some sort of will and say – well now it's gone and here we are giving you and giving it to you. I don't think that's good, and I think this makes it possible for you to practically run both social and human policy alongside the health policy that you need to run. So I really expect you to understand what I've just said and that you will withdraw this article, or adopt the amendment, even though you haven't spoken out on the board, but I think it's because there are often people on the board who don't really know how the system works, whether they're doctors or not. So I repeat once again, the personnel plan gives you too much power. I agree that's what you want right now, and I don't know if any of your SNS colleagues are as bad about this. So I don't think you need it. We've got a network, we've got a standard, we've got public health facilities. I don't think there's any need for you to decide that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7582	There's a Mrs. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7583	The Budget Law stipulates that the ministries are obliged to deliver a personnel plan to make sure that anything financed by the state of RZZO gives 47% of its own funds, i.e. the funds collected on the salaries of people employed in the network of health institutions. It's our obligation under the Budget Law. On the other hand, it's been since 2008, and it's not a newspaper, to remind us that we're in this obligation. The regulations on normative activity are also adopted, there is. What is important is that all suggestions for the number of people employed in one health institution are given for the human resources structure "Batut" based on communication with the directors of health institutions, i.e. health institutions. It's just that we specifically singled out a sentence that has its basis in the Budget Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7584	Mr. Zelenovic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7585	I understand everything you've said and it's all right, but I'm going back to one thing again. So it will happen in life and in practice that we will have a situation that some health institutions have made an agreement with someone, a political agreement with someone in the ministry, will have much more favourable conditions than others, and we should all be on equal terms. We're going to have a situation, I guarantee we'll have a situation, and we already have one, and someone's going to have the number of personnel over the norms, and someone's not going to be able to meet the normative. Then you'll say, since it has to do with the previous member of the law changes -- well, you don't, but you have local self-government, so let her pay. I don't see politics here. I really expected you to have some order in place. As we go from member to member, I don't see any order. It bothers me very much. I really expected you to introduce order and then meet all the institutions normative, to make sure the ministry meets the normative ones, and then to talk about building up the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7586	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7587	Dear President, dear Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I believe this is what my colleague was saying and what the minister was saying was there and how logic was. I don't think the previous managements of the Ministry of Health have well organized a network of institutions, have taken good care of the Ministry of Health. I don't think the Institute of Public Health "Batut" has adequately taken care of the need for a health care system in Serbia. We are now facing a lack of doctors, anesthesiologists, radiologists, cardio surgeons, and this clearly shows that formerly some of the Ministry of Health's managements had been non-domestically leading this ministry and had no communication with the Institute of Public Health "Batut" and clinical centres with their institutes throughout the cities. I'm trying to get the doors open for the new doctors' reception. We are as Serbia's health system faced with a ban on the reception of new doctors. I can testify that in the last two years, literally no doctor has been admitted to the Niška Clinical Center, and that every year, the University of Medicine, such as the medical schools of Belgrade, Kragujevac and Novi Sad, increase the enrolment policy for young people of our smartest medical students. After that, these children literally don't have the opportunity to get a job. At the Nis Bureau alone, 500 young doctors are waiting for work, in Belgrade more than 2,000, for Novi Sad there are over 500 doctors. I'm asking you, if we have these admission policies that you don't control, I'm saying that you have communication and that you're setting out enrolment quotas at the medical colleges in order to know how much it takes for a certain person in Serbia, to take a lot more ingenuity than the Ministry of Education, and to create a registration policy together with the Deans of Medical Colleges in some years to come. I'm betting that 10 or 20% of this enrolment policy is reduced as long as the kids who are on the bureau, young doctors, don't get hired, give them no chance to work, and the indicator that we're getting older speciality, talk about anesthesiologists or neurosurgeons or whoever we take at the clinic, and I'm going to tell you that when I'm 45, I'm the youngest at my clinic, and that's not normal, that when you're 45, you're the youngest at the clinic. It takes someone 25 to be the youngest. We need a rejuvenation. We're blocked by the ministry of the former, that the general director who wasn't from our party simply couldn't receive any new young doctor. We've got great kids, and these kids can't get a job because of some, I'm not gonna say, political mistakes, but mistakes at public health institutes, additionally, negligently perhaps or uninteresting people who were at the Ministry of Health. We've come to the fact that our doctors are getting a little old, they're gradually retired, and no one's taking care of the young doctors I'm fighting for, and I'm trying to make it possible for them to keep working. In some of the past, they were volunteer specializations, and we rejected it as very bad. I think that if these kids don't have a job, if the state doesn't have a chance, at least volunteer, that after they've finished in the sixth or seventh year of medicine, they get into the health system, that they continue to build on it, and not that, literally, when they're sitting on the desk, what they know, they forget, and that some practical knowledge that they don't have from that system of education at medical schools, I mean the practical part, not theoretically, because we need to do a little reform, and in theory we're great, we also need reforming educational systems in medicine, that these children through everyday work have the opportunity to improve their knowledge. I'm introducing you to a problem that exists in all clinical centres, many health institutions, that we as doctors are getting old without receiving the youth. It's a question you need to ask, to fight for those young doctors sitting on the desk or leaving our country looking for their jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7588	The word is Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7589	I would not agree to accept the amendment of my colleagues from the DS, and here's the reason. We, like colleagues Milisavljevic, are constantly talking about clinical centres, talk about Nis, Kragujevac, Belgrade and the number of doctors on the work desk. What about Serbia's interior, the interior of Vojvodina? There are many doctors working in Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, etc. We have an acute lack of doctors in all rural areas, in all small environments and in health homes in Serbia. Why don't we talk about it, and why don't we ask ourselves why we have 500 doctors on your desk? That's why I'm saying that human policy has to be run by the ministry, and why in the villages around Nis or the surrounding Kragujevac, Vrsca, we don't have doctors, and that's because young doctors don't want to go there. You can't talk about the fact that we have a lack of doctors and that registration policy is like this or something, because it's been happening for some smaller places for months that they've been holding an open competition for the doctor's reception that the ministry would agree to run human resources policy, and people don't want to report. You have a large number of doctors working in Belgrade who do not want to go to Belgrade's periphery without talking about going to a village to work. Therefore, let us not constantly bring up the problems of clinical centres, because Serbia's health system is not made up of clinical centres that are upgrades, but the health system should be provided to all citizens of Serbia in all environments, and there is an acute shortage. I have some information, I don't know if it's true, the minister can correct me, that we're missing two thousand doctors in small towns in the interior of Serbia, and we should take care of that, not just to talk about clinical centres. So, the Ministry of Health, I think he should run a human resources policy and limit his admission to clinical centres, and normally open the door wide, receive doctors and fill out jobs in small areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7590	Nebojsa Zelenović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7591	Replica. I fully support you, let's get the minister to start running health policy, start running politics, not personneling, and politics is, you make a plan, I totally agree with you. So let the minister make a plan to solve the problem. I'm talking about the fact that there are 20 specialists missing at the hospital in Capco, and there are 50 armed guards, like they're guarding a bank, not a hospital. That's what I'm talking about. Let's make a plan. It's not the minister's fault, that woman wasn't there. Some other people are to blame for the situation we're in. So, who determined specializations, in which way, who got specializations, why don't we have anesthesiologists and radiologists, why are we returning these unfortunate scanners and screenings and mammograms, why are we doing this? It's key stuff, but it's not in these regulations, it's not. Let's start and solve the problem at last, not put new administrations and build up bureaucracy and another new procedure, and another new procedure, and I think that doctors are most of all administrations over their heads.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7592	Replica, Mr. Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7593	I agree with you that there is a policy to be conducted and it is the right policy. I hope Mrs. Minister accepts what we've been talking about, but you're missing young specialist doctors. One more thing should not be forgotten, it should not be approved immediately after college. So, you don't need someone who's graduated from Nis Medical School to stay in Nis right away and finish specializing. What's going on? We have pheleric specialists who then observe the patient only through the organs they specialize in, not as the unity of the personality, the unity of the patient. Therefore, what once was, and I hope the Ministry will see that a certain period of time has to pass, where a young doctor will deal with general practice and work in general practice, whether in the village or in the city, the infirmary, and only after that will he get a specialization. I would agree with you that there is a number of specializations that may not be considered attractive specializations, so there was no interest. There, the ministry needs to lead human policy and insist that there are no other specialities until those specializations that are deficited in Serbia are completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7594	The word is Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7595	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7596	You have no basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7597	How, I was mentioned around clinical centres, by Mr. Mijatovic, around the network of clinical centres, around the hospital...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7598	I gave my word to your colleague, because Dr. Mijatovic's debate was directed, you can, of course, be authorized, but you have no right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7599	As for my efforts to hire young doctors, I certainly didn't advocate that they were just in these big cities. It is important that Serbia develops equally and it is important that these children find a job. That's the most important thing. As far as I know, my medical students don't choose a job and certainly would like to work in Nis or Belgrade, none of those kids at all who are at the Bureau, he didn't say – I don't want to go to Black Trav, Surdulica, Bosilegrad, there's no jobs and that's the problem. If there was a need, they would go, in southern Serbia, checked, those children would not sit at home and kill their time, but rather have the state allow them to find a new job and that is what they need. It's not a question that they only want to go to these big centres, but it's a question that even in small centres, the environments, there's not enough room for new jobs and for young doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7600	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7601	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, I fully support the position of colleague Zelenovic, who believes that the humane plan is not the place in this law. In the bill of law, you put the minister's plan for employees. The DS Parliamentary Group has proposed that this member be deleted. We gave a different solution, that the government would make a decision on the proposal of the minister. Look, you've given up centralised public procurement. In light of this law, it states that on the basis of what you have given up today, due to political agreements in parliament, it was intended to save between 20% and 40% of the funds. Does that mean there won't be any savings now? I fully agree, because it will happen, if it stays as you suggested, that you decide that the Nish Health Center will have a higher quota, that it will be able to hire more doctors or other medical staff, unlike Chuck or some other local self-government. With this law, you predicted that we, as local self-government, should finance them. I wouldn't agree with my colleague, Milisavljevic, if people wouldn't accept going to Black Trev or I don't know where. The specialists from my work, when they come to Belgrade, finish specialising, they look at every way to stay right in Belgrade, not to go back to the health center that paid them for that same specialization. Let's ask the question, why is that? Is there any reason why they don't want to go back to their town to work downstairs, but they want everyone to stay in Belgrade? Then Belgrade will have six million inhabitants, and Serbia will be extinct. So please, we're helping you with this, we're making it easier for you, you're making a suggestion. Some government who, as a legislator of the Law, who came here to the Assembly, wrote a bill on the maximum number of public sector employees, which is of course not respected for these 13,600, and for who knows how many people in some other ministries. Let the government bring it. Sit tight, you wanted to rule, you made a coalition, you have a government, you deal with the government and you go to the Parliament with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7602	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7603	Replica. What you said was that when young doctors come to Belgrade, they end up specializing and then they don't want to come back. So it is certainly the desire of young people to be in the centre of Serbia, to be in Belgrade, Nis and Novi Sad, but if they have specialization, so I want to defend these doctors, if they have paid specialisation from their health center, whether from Bor, Zaječar, Negotina, Kladova or any other small place, they are obliged, given that this health care institution pays them specialisation, they are obliged to return to their home health care facility. They can only be paid by those four years of specialization or six years of specialization, how much the health care institution paid them, and only then are they free to establish a working relationship with another institution. So that's not true. It is their desire to be in a larger center, but they are bound by the law anyway, i.e. the contract of work they sign with the parent institution, which sends them to further education. I don't want to go into controversy alone, only the truth is that young doctors certainly want you to go to health centres to educate your students, to continue their knowledge to apply, but the labor contract obliges them to come back to their home again, and that's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7604	The word is Mr. Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7605	Short. I understand what you're talking about, but today we're talking about this same contract, whether or not it exists, on the basis of which 13,600 people are employed in the past of a contract that needs to be concluded with the fund. I'm not going to name names, but I have data, unlike you who have been reporting names and last names here. People who agreed with the director of the health center who referred them to specialization and paid them that, stayed in Belgrade to work, at various clinics here in Belgrade. So by name and last name, I can document it for you, out of this room whenever you want, and of course, ministers can always picture it. Let's solve the problem. This is the creation of some illusion that something is moving in the walk. Be careful, when the government proposes a law, the minister is behind it, in principle, defending it, and then on the basis of a political agreement, all this changes in parliament and then abolishing some of the most important, essential provisions that should have been reformed by the health system. Of this law, unfortunately, there will be nothing, but with pleasure we will wait for you in a few months to discuss it again, Mrs. Dejanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7606	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Janko Veselinović and Teodora Vlahovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mileta Poscurica, Milan Knezevic, Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic, Ninoslav Girić, Branislav Blažić, Predrag Mijatović and Aleksandar Radojevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Health and Family Committee has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Milet Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7607	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, we have also discussed in the principle that we had in Parliament a potential problem, so I am still talking about a potential problem that can arise by strict application of the provisions provided for in the amendment to the Law in Article 8, which is being amended. We discussed this in more detail at the Committee's session, and of course even more detail in some, perhaps different aspects, at the time we saw the government's response at the second session of the Health Committee, when we voted on the adoption or rejection of the amendments, which our parliamentary group gave. Namely, in this new member who has been introduced and quite clear and understandable reasons, to once put into order a numerical state, therefore, the number of those who, in the meantime, have, as a rule, been employed by party lines in hospitals, in a status that has not been defined, a certain working time for people who have not received salaries, or who have received salaries from other sources, but have certainly always been under stress when elections occur, when power changes, the director comes, what will be with them. From institution to institution, the number of such people is different. Of course, there is also part of their responsibilities because they agree that in such a way, with a note in their hand, they come, appear at work with the chief of service, either the director or the politically influential person in the city sent them. It is a public secret and, of course, it would be illusory to present the names of persons who have thus been given a job. As a rule, this is usually about good students. By introducing Bologna, we've mostly been getting good students. Everyone takes short, fast, efficient, the average is high. What's going to be a lasting quality and a retention of knowledge, some tests made to show that it's good and say that's good, what's essentially going to be, we'll see. But it's not the essence of our intervention in that. When we wanted to strengthen the position of health workers, however, the doctor, at least in the Assembly, is such a composition, those who by their own free will, by their rational decision in the choice between profession and official profession and profession, we will tell the politician, whatever you call an MP or someone appointed or appointed person, ambassador, advisor, appointed to the state office, etc., and in the light of his relationship and the Labour Act, the right to choose, whether to stay with the work book in his home institution or to transfer it to a new institution, to the new place where he came from. Some have chosen, let's say, like me, that there's a work book, and there's quite a reason why they're very explaining, that we don't go into personal reasons at all, because finally it's part of the responsibility, the work book at the hospital, that means for a doctor who works at a clinical center, the duty of duty on duty and consultation and the obligation to cover the work that stands there, the obligation of a visa, etc., especially if it's a joint function at the university. For clinical subjects, there is a necessary binding of the clinical base and related to the university, a particular department. So, such people, if they remained as they were, and perhaps the ultimate well-intentioned director, who first presented his condition to the Public Health Institute, in terms of available staff, and with the fact that the law provides that the basis of his report and reporting to the Institute for Public Health, is the financial coherence of the number of employees and compliance in a numerical relationship, in accordance with standards. We already have standards, we don't have those specials for a long time, because somebody said we had standards somewhere. Either the standards are bad or the attempt to get into the specialization was a politically usable thing. It's been said for a very long time today, and quite justifiably many deficiting professions have become... Because we had a hiatus or a void in approval specialization. The director of the institution must now look at the number of those who will be financed and staff needs according to the network plan, or according to the standards that each profession within the clinical center, within the department and within each speciality requires that someone, by doing that and by doing that job, may have. In such a procedure, in the middle of the law, in that interregnum, conditionally, there will be persons whose work book will not be in the hospital at the time when the directors behind the New Year's, after the entry into force of this law, will slowly prepare the paper, update the database, find no one's work book at the clinical center. This person, as he stands here, and is supported even more in the third paragraph of the reasoning given to us by the Government, i.e. the Resort Ministry, we believe that what was required in the amendment, the staff plans of health institutions, determine the particular number of employees who are at rest of the working relationship, since this number is already contained in the total number of employees. Only one paragraph above writes what the total number of employees is and is said to be – the total number of full and not full-time employees, shortened working hours, those paid by the Fund and those paid otherwise by someone. So, it is not said -- and those whose working book is not there at that time, because under the roof law, the Labour Act, the working relationship rests, and the working book will be brought to the assembly, in the ministry, in the government, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or somewhere where they have been given the right to political candidacy and to express political views and to transfer and to their own, it seems to me, mostly rationally, that they cannot be in two places at the same time, to dedicate a dominant part of their engagement, let's say, to some form of political or state action. I'm afraid that when the Hygiene Institute, the Institute of Public Health, ranks according to the data received, will be realistic, because there are no work books and no written clues, except in the archives, where in the legal department it says that someone's work book isn't in the folder, but it's been taken away, say, to the assembly or taken to the MIP or somewhere. How's he gonna write that down? He does not have a column in the plan, which the minister is due to bring, to present to the Institute of Public Health what the network will look like, that set of columns and rows in which those who receive salaries from the budget, working on a fixed, undefined, full-time, part-time, part-time, part-time. They're all kind of numbered, only those doctors who really aren't there, they don't participate, they just stay a vacuum. It may occur that, by respecting the Labour Act, you return to your post when your term of office is up. There'll be a decision waiting for you downstairs. The norms are filled after payment. The normative is also filled according to standards. Sorry, we're sorry, we couldn't count on you, we got a doctor to specialize, which is perfectly logical, business can't take it, your place isn't there. I'll meet you at the legal vacuum. As long as we are the functions that we perform, especially the public MPs, the MPs of the public words will be denied the way we think about the health problems we see, because maybe we have a vengeful director waiting for us. I don't think I have that kind of accident in my establishment, but if I hadn't had it before, I wouldn't have transferred the workbook, so I had to get away from the callouts that were there and define myself for this. I can't, by law and by the Constitution, be punished for transferring my work book to another workplace, and I can't take two salaries, but just one. I think it might be logical, if there is no other solution, that simply, since the man is just being made for the staff plan, he introduces a column of people who have been employed in the institution, but their working relationship rests, no matter what the basis, although the amendment mainly applies to Article 4 concerning us who are MPs and people who have been appointed or appointed to other functions or, more importantly, elected in direct elections, as are MPs, on the lists we have had. Of course, plus people who are in double labor. That would mean losing both jobs, and colleges and jobs at the clinical center, which would be a nonsensical that no court would allow to be. Are there needs and costs and stress for families and colleagues? So far, no law has ever been introduced that would question the provisions of the Labour Act. So it's not about engineers, lawyers, teachers who have a clean profession. It's just, all of a sudden, they're protected by roof law, and we're a little out of the chair and that third point of base so that we know that we're not hooked up to it, too, maybe... It literally translates as it writes and will not put a doctor whose working relationship rests because he pulled a work book into another institution at the level of the Republic or at the level of parliament or other republican authorities. On occasion, this is the meaning of our amendment, to extend it with just three words like this, otherwise one very long sentence once again with a little bit of an addictive sentence, and to leave it with the right and the security and the director to do the right thing when he sends a report on who's doing it, that he's quiet, we're both gone and done, and the one who makes the plan, such as the Institute of Public Health and the Minister who confirms it, to deprive him of the obligation to have the right to change twice a year. What does he need in six months to make two changes in the system, or two changes in the personnel plan? That someone's gonna hang out or some other person's department, at best, gets a transfer somewhere. The intern can go anywhere. According to the Labour Act, the employer has the right to change you. Why would people who are personally and professionally defined? Because you just don't have them anywhere. With no evil intentions, you have to send, say, a nephrologist to gastroenterology, etc. Today, sophisticated health care would be a complete failure. It is simply not just protecting us, MPs and health workers, it is the protection of the health system, that it does not fall into potential risks thanks to the literal implementation of the Law, which is again beautiful. The law needs to be implemented literally. That's the point of our dilemma. That's why I'm saying this again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7608	The word is Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7609	Mr. Pokurica, your concern for the status of the doctor I'm joining is very clear. There's a lot of us in politics. We are at various functions, appointed, elected and appointed. I'm sure we shouldn't be doing this other job our whole life, but we should go back to our patients. The right you seek to regulate this law can only be regulated by amendments to the Labour Act. In the Labour Act, the concept of rest is defined. Every person appointed, elected or appointed to a significant function, is actually at rest in a working relationship. While at the post, depending on the needs of the institution, one can replace it, but the person returns to his post. Not only because of your very logical argument and concern, but because, unfortunately, it happens when a doctor returns to a health care facility and needs to return, because his function has expired, there are certain misunderstandings. The directors of the health care institution will again address as the Ministry, reminding them that all these persons must wait for their place of employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7610	The word is Dr. Poscuric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7611	I agree, and it's some kind of sublegal act that you'd like to refer to. Of course, "face to face" remains the issue of heights. Who would believe you now if he didn't believe it when you said it in public and the record exists. I loved that someone once showed a draft of that excel or some word, a document in which they wrote – a working, permanent working relationship, a permanent working relationship, a partial and non, whose working relationship rests, because when you read who enters the network plan, there are none of these persons, and then in the second attitude, in the third paragraph, you say that it is already contained in the total number. Simply, I also said with you as if we had totaled the number of those present at the vote, left out the number of those who, for example, remained abstentioned or did not vote. Voted for, against, abstention and did not vote. Sometimes there's more of those who didn't vote, than all the other numbers, and then you say total number 186, but you didn't put in 100 of those who didn't vote. That looks like what's written. I don't know why that is. Article 79. The labour law is decadent and he is clear and has been in force so far and no one has ever set this dilemma at all. I guess we'd have asked that before. No one has ever set this dilemma at all. I guess we'd have asked that before. No one challenged it anywhere, although I heard a colleague was out of a job when he came back, but he's not from a health profession. So this law specifically concerns not to include a man who has a working relationship. That's the point. It is not in the sum of those who are in the total number of people in the network, but only by saying that it will be in that number, and it is right up there. It's the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, but there's no one who's at peace. It's simple, we're asking it to stand in number. It doesn't matter, he doesn't work, he's got a working relationship. It's a qualification that he doesn't actively work. So I don't know why it's so terrible to change, what in the spirit of the law would change that, because it wouldn't concern the Labour Act. We don't change him. We're just here to actualize it through this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7612	The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7613	Dear President of the Assembly, dear Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, to the conclusion of this amendment tabled by our MP group of SNS, I would like to make a negative example out of personal experience. At the time of my working relationship, a few of my colleagues in the work organisation were transferred to another workplace. After that unpaid absence, we returned to a health care facility, but we were removed from the list of contracted personnel. In our place were arranged until then unnecessarily, so after 24 years of work experience I experienced being unagreed and if there had been a rationalization of the staff, of course we would have been unagreed first on strike and were fired. Then, later, the Institute of Public Health wrote to us that we would be renegotiated.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7614	The word is Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7615	You've just cited an example of a breach of the personnel plan. The director has violated the personnel plan and here's another argument that makes it important that we have a personnel plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7616	Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7617	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I don't think that by not accepting this amendment, we bring in one system here, which is that all political parties, however hard they try, are always part of the proposal and the parliamentary lists, which is that they are trying, at least seriously, to propose candidates from all forms of the social community, from all kinds of professions, territorial representation, etc. If it stays the way the bill gave us, not accepting this amendment, we risk not having quality doctors here in the Serbian Parliament because they can risk losing their jobs in a facility where they work. Then we'll either have doctors without a job, and the Assembly is not their second job, but their first and only job, and since they're out of work, not entering their expertise, knowledge they've acquired in colleges, etc., they don't have that life experience to participate in quality debates concerning health care, health insurance, etc. If we look at this situation the way it is, we can choose. Are we going to violate the Labour Act, although I don't know what part of it is being broken, or are we going to violate the Law on elected, appointed and appointed persons, which also regulates the status of persons who have decided to work professionally in some other business, and by law they have the right to remain in a working relationship. This is the problem that fellow Milet Poscurica and several other MPs wanted to avoid during this amendment. It remains for the ministry to, by means of a sublegal act, determine by the will of the minister or his cabinet what will be applied, the Labour Act, this law or the Law on elected, appointed and appointed persons. Nothing in life is meant to be, but the law determines what are the obligations of persons involved in a business in the performance of a task. So once again, I appeal to the minister and his associates to think about this amendment for at least one day, so we don't get into one of these situations. The patience or ministries and the Serbian Parliament and all other bodies dealing with some higher form of health care, where they are appointed elected and appointed, because even a good candidate for president of some local self-government may simply not want to accept the job, but rather to keep his job in the facility he works in, precisely because he is afraid to lose his job. I think it would be a good idea for you to reconsider and to have your position on the subject of this amendment by the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7618	The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7619	Thank you. A lot my colleagues have already said, so I don't want to repeat myself, but I don't want to give up what I want to say. We've talked a lot of Madam Ministers about the amendment to the Health Committee and we've come across a general understanding. The Health Committee has adopted this amendment. I have to admit, I don't understand why you're so persistently refusing to accept this editorial in law. It's a little editorial that doesn't cost you anything as a ministry, and it means a lot to appointed and appointed persons. By not accepting this amendment, you leave a large number of people at the mercy of the directors of the institutions where they are employed. You're saying by your decree you'll oblige the directors to keep their relationship steady. It can and doesn't have to be respected. You forget that if the director violates your decree, there is a trial in our terms for two, three years, and for all that time, that employee stays on the street without any admissions. Why are we doing this and why does the ministry allow it? Why would this congregation allow it, that appointed and appointed persons must be tried and prove it in court, that they were right, when one of your acts can end it all. By accepting this amendment, by that little editorial that doesn't conflict with the existing law and with the existing Labour Act, we'll solve the whole problem automatically. The Health Committee, in which there are doctors and those who are not, but yet the people of the profession felt that this should be accepted. I think that you, too, need as a representative of the Government, to accept this amendment so that there are no further misunderstandings, any problems we have, so you don't write a decree and we don't have long-term court proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7620	The word is Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7621	I really think we're thinking the exact same thing. I'll be very specific and clear. The legislation says that this is a matter that we cannot regulate with this law, but possibly with suggestions on the additions and specifics of the Labour Act, in relation to the status of a standstill. Once again, I will state your position, I have no objection to regulating any issue related to health care professionals whose working status rests, or the position of work in the establishment they work in. If legislation says it's not the subject of this law, it should be the subject of the Labour Act, I'm simply obliged to pass it on to you. So I absolutely don't mind and I can test the position of legislation once more.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7622	The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7623	I fully understood my colleagues from the SNS and we will support their amendment in the voting day. As I understand it, their amendment does not concern the Labour Relations Act at all, but only says that in the Staff Plan, in one particular column there will be a number of health workers whose working relationship rests. This in no way disturbs the Labour Act or any other law. It's like having some reserved funds. It is known that these are the funds provided in advance and must be taken into account. If that's not the case, then the personnel plan can be respected, and all the medical personnel whose status is still at stake will break through the personnel plan. So I don't see at all how this law gets in the way of working relationships. It enters only another additional column in the personnel plan and contributes to the removal of any ambiguity that can occur in practice. This plan is great and we will support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7624	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7625	Dear Minister, I don't know, I see all day long all the amendments you accepted by the SNS. Poor you, only this amendment didn't accept the problem. What I'm saying is, as far as this amendment is concerned, the amendment isn't so bad, but I'm a little bothered by the amendments from the SNS that you accepted them all except for this one. When you didn't accept that one, then the trees and the stones on you. You haven't accepted a lot of good DS and DSS amendments. I'm just saying that either they want to mold you, so they're literally running the Health Department. I support you, that you run the Ministry of Health and that you don't accept any amendments. The thing that bothered me the most was what you talked about in the media about public procurement, centralization, inability to corruption, and suddenly the whole of your initiative found itself not in the Ministry of Health, but in the Republic Health Fund. Now I'm asking you publicly - is this already agreed that the SNS will hold the Republic Health Fund and then transfer responsibility to that fund, i.e. You're being reduced by maneuvers as health ministers. Personally, I think it's very important that this whole story of corruption and health care be transparent. It makes much more sense for me to have it under the control of the Ministry of Health and you personally, not because I don't believe in colleagues from the SNS, but because it makes more sense for me to control it by the Ministry of Health. But I'm going to ask one question, and I'm expressing my doubts about the functionality of these public procurements. I understand that when a public procurement is made for magnetic resonances or scanners, I know how it will be controlled, how it will be monitored, and how hospitals will look for it in time, but I ask how someone from some health center in Vranje or the Health Center in Black grass, will clearly state what he needs this week, for the next week, in a month. I can tell you, as far as these public procurements are concerned, I'm starting to express my suspicions that whoever is doing these public procurements, whether the SPS or SNS, is impossible to control only so much on the system of the clinical center, don't mind me saying it, but it's a classic example where I work, where you have 3,500 employees. You'll control the big tenders, but what about the so-called. Small tenders for example. Buying syringes, getting some drugs, getting some consumable material, getting food? If you have 3,500 employees and 2,000 patients, it's 5,500 breakfasts, lunches and dinners, just one egg eaten by a patient in the morning, lunch and dinner, it's 15,000 eggs. If someone in that tender is charged one dinar, it's 15,000 dinars a day. I doubt the problem will be found in these kobajagi small purchases, and these small purchases are large purchases. The former directors of clinical centres also know that they were the most careful when buying scanners, magnetic resonances, or lasers. May I have your attention, please? (President: I ask the People's Messengers to listen to the speaker. )......................................................................................................... that the most fitting was precisely in this as a tiny, small consumable material, whether it's coal, whether it's gas, whether it's a bandage, whether it's a syringe, means that it costs a little bit, but when you calculate it on the needs of a large clinical center, some big home of health, like a health home, it comes out a lot. So, I doubt the functionality of these public procurements at the central level, which has been taken away by small health centres. As far as major procurement is concerned, I understand how it will be controlled and how it will be sought, but there are two doubts about this. One question is about the needs of these institutions and another doubt is that we will control it, that we will know that someone has not been involved in the Republic Fund for these purchases again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7626	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7627	It's not about the amendment, but it is about the subject and this law. From the beginning, we had a dilemma not whether we should go to centralised supply or not, so we should and we've been thinking a lot alike, and from the beginning we've had a dilemma that's the unit that needs to realize the procurement process itself. We've been thinking that it could be the Ministry's administration or directorship, but it would have to be a whole new organisational unit, which would have to be formed, or we would have thought that at the beginning it would have to be done by a fund that was already engaged in certain procurements. Of course, he must be staffed. I don't think we should think about whether it belongs to one or the other party. I would be sorry if we were to introduce the centralized supply as an anti-corruption law, a law that would give the possibility of saving and that it would take as long as the mandate of a government. I think centralised long-term supply can save money. Since you mention syringes, of course they will be supplied centrally and of course they will have to have all health care facilities have at least a month of reservations in the individual needs of medicines, sanitary material and laboratory material. I don't want to be a skeptic at first, but I've been thinking about it, even some MPs have said -- you want to replace a small corruption with a big one, because a lot of the small ones are corrupt when it comes to supplying, and there's going to be big corruption here. That is why we have defined ourselves to ensure absolute transparency in purchases. The World Bank project will provide us with logistical support in this, and I am very interested that every step in procurement, the Ministry of Health places citizens, not only interested MPs and competent experts. So we'll try, just like when we introduced the budget office into the National Assembly, when we first got our budget. There have been great reflections on why the National Assembly should have its own budget, when the Ministry of Finance could give it a certain amount of money. We explained that we needed it because we wanted to be independent, and then there was that other need, to think about the possibility of corruption. We said, "We will ensure the public in the work, and it will be done in a transparent manner." Here, I'm saying the same thing now. We'll do our best. I think that, whether it was an entity with the Ministry or with the Republic Health Insurance Office, most MPs felt that it was still more logical to have it at the Republic Institute. To be perfectly honest, I feel more secure about this kind of control being done by those who are competent, and these are primarily those who know public finances, who know finances at all, than we doctors do, because we're usually health ministers, usually we're doctors.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7628	The word is Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's obvious that the MPs of the former regime want to fight the current coalition, but it won't work, dear colleague. Now, apart from the fight against corruption and organised crime, there is something else going on in the Assembly, which is that the Assembly is nevertheless a body that is above the government of the Republic of Serbia and that the opinion and attitude of the MPs is crucial. Of course, on the other hand, we had a minister who respected it and said, "Let's see what it looks like." Otherwise, the story of centralised public procurement, I know that many thorns are in the eye, I suppose the most public procurement agency in Belgrade, which will no longer be able to obtain drugs, medical supplies and primary health care equipment belonging to the territory of the city of Belgrade. There is another particular reason, which is that the DRI's director has filed criminal charges against him for abuse of his official position. What is the objective of centralised public procurement? Not only will corruption be reduced and reduced to that level by zero tolerances, which may not be possible in the first moments, but we will see that it is at some acceptable level on the one hand, and on the other hand, to finally implement the standardisation of medical equipment that Serbia has, whether on primary or secondary, or at level-ocular self-government in primary health care or secondary health care, or where you already have health care levels in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because we are not rich enough to provide multiple types of equipment with the same purpose, several types of services, several types of spare parts, and then unnecesssarily expose citizens to one large, quite serious cost. Also, these centralised public procurements, as I understood the minister when we discussed the law and the amendment, would not be complete at the first moment, but would gradually be introduced and more and more centralised, precisely because of this problem, until the public procurement authority gradually entered into the complete essence of the problem and the needs of health centres, clinical centres, etc., not to list. Thank you. Of course, any centralized public procurement is good, but there's one other thing that can be a bad consequence, and that's a monopoly on the market. That's why these small public procurements, small values, are being left, let's say, the Republic Health Protection Fund that will be supplying food for patients throughout Serbia. That's really impossible. On the one hand, they'll make, instead of saving, maybe save on one side, but far higher costs on the other side. So, I don't want to get too much into that controversy. I think that's also a good idea about these centralised public procurements. You will see for yourself in some future period, we already have in the procedure, but we will also have a debate on the new law on public procurement where even this is in line with this bill, or the Law on Public Procurement is in line, the bill on public procurement with this law, so that there is no conflict between the two laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7630	The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7631	Thank you. I think we're a little off topic, but, well, it is in a broader sense, but we've talked about the amendment that we've submitted to Mr. Poscurica and the other MPs. I think we should continue to discuss this. I'm afraid that a colleague from the DS is in a lack of proper arguments, I'd like to hear some meaningful arguments, whether the amendments to the SNS, DSS or LDP are of no importance at the moment. We are discussing whether some amendments are meaningful, whether they improve the law or do not improve the law. I think that the lamentation on that, well, you've accepted everything, and these aren't, in fact, insulting, in a certain way, and profession, and profession, and the dignity of this assembly, because it's more like moaning and less like putting forward meaningful arguments. Comrade, if you have a meaningful counterargument, which you did not have on the Health Committee, bring it out here in public and say what is not good in our amendment, not that it is an amendment to the SNS. He's good anyway. If you think it isn't, say what's wrong with it, what's wrong with it, what might produce bad, and without complaining about how our amendments are accepted or not accepted. I think it's unworthy of this tall home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7632	The word is by MP Zoran Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7633	I give up. I wanted something about these eggs, about the purchase, so I gave up.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7634	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7635	The Honorable Chairman, your Honored Minister, will only relate to the presentation of counterpart Arsic. I must point out immediately that the doubts raised by fellow opposition MPs are, for the time being, premature. From the point of view of good intentions, they can be acceptable, but they are premature for the simple reason that all MPs have already been informed that a session of this Parliament is scheduled on Saturday, this assembly, where the law on amendments and additions of the Criminal Procedure Act will be discussed. Considering that the additions proposed a completely new crime, this crime was contained in a new Article 234a. And it's abuse in public procurement. This incrimination or qualification of a criminal offence is also concerned with these doubts that are highlighted. Because this crime and the legislator did not distinguish between small and large public procurements, but provided for sanctions and threatened criminal sanctions, or punishment for all forms of corruption contained in this criminal act. Therefore, it is also necessary to wait for this law to be passed which, in any case, will act preventively on all those who would eventually reach out to anything illegal, relating to public procurement, at least in the way it is presented here. It is no doubt that the SNS amendment is in the spirit, i.e. compatible with the proposal for this provision of the law, i.e. the systematicisation of this criminal act. I therefore believe that, in this direction, any premature assessment of any doubt, whether in terms of caution, does not stand for the time being. Finally, this also shows the full unity of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has decided to take such a step in the criminal and legal sense of the word, to systematicize a crime that finally covers something that is very dangerous for the legal system, the economy and the economy of the Republic of Serbia, which is corruption related to public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7636	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7637	Thank you very much. I'd like to return a little, if possible, discussion to that member of the law we're talking about. I have the impression that this is all that's been said lately, not at all about this amendment that we've been talking about. I don't know what this is about right now. There have been multiple abuses of speech here and some things that really have nothing to do with it. This amendment we've been talking about, it's about Article 8. The bill, which applies, is our sincere desire to in some way protect the appointed persons, or the doctors to protect, so that people don't lose their jobs. This is where we started to talk about eggs, potatoes, the Criminal Code, all the other laws, and we're not talking about that this is a special law that's in front of the Labour Act. That's what this is all about. We're trying to avoid, if possible, that some people should be sued tomorrow, tried, to provide what is their basic right to work. It's the essence of an amendment, that we want to avoid some decrees, that we want to avoid writing and that, with our amendment, if possible, we just behave and normalize things and put things in place. So please, if it's possible to go back to this amendment. Someone here doesn't know what they're talking about, and then everyone gets up and gives up some lines, they talk about something that has nothing to do with things. Come on, guys, it's about Article 8 and let's just say it all the way, if anybody makes sense. We have a decision of the Committee, we have accepted an amendment by the Committee on Health, we have a discussion that lasted two days, very constructive, very high-quality, and I express my real gratitude to everyone who participated in this discussion, but we have come to the conclusion that now we just need to see if this amendment will be accepted or not, or whether we are leaving some time until we vote to talk a little more about it or not. It's essential now and let's base ourselves on this amendment and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7638	I took this as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7639	The argumentation of MPs is that it requires that we make another consultation with the Legislative Committee of the Government. Their suggestion was to engage together with the Ministry of Labour and Labour, or to react together, if we are motivated. But I'm going to check that attitude one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7640	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. By amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7641	Yeah, according to the amendment. What the minister has now said is encouraging and it is good to hear all the MPs. Be safe, the Labour Relations Act provides that there is an institute to rest the working relationship after the deadline on which a person has been appointed or appointed and it has the right to return to work within 30 days from where a person has been appointed or has previously worked. This elegant solution only foresees, within the framework of the health care institution's human resources policy, to add one column, to possibly reserve funds. If the funds are not used in one year, they will certainly be used for something else, but these funds should be planned. It's good what you said, I believe, and everything else we talk about. Finally, when you sublime all the discussions of the MPs, along with all your observations on all the problems of our health system, I think you will have a clearer picture after what all MPs will say about the next amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7642	I think we can wrap up the debate after the amendment, especially on the statement by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic that he will discuss it afterwards. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7643	Thank you. I'll just say two sentences. I'm not a doctor by profession, but I understand completely to Mr. Doctors and Doctors, because the same situation is in education and education. I've never received a political salary in my life, but I've seen the tragedy of human life in the context of what my fellow doctors have been saying. Namely, what is desired is for someone to be a minor master of life and death. I'll explain it in two sentences. Why does a appointed person have to depend on the director of the firm or the minister? If we want to improve the parliamentary system and the decracies in general, then let's adopt an objection to this amendment, because we're going to get a more constructive debate, regardless of the political parties sitting here today, because it treats especially younger generations. I, as a man of experience, tell you that in enlightenment it is mass present. They even limited to two mandates, etc. I'd call this a special law. You lawyers know it better than I do, I'm not a lawyer. What costs us is to put what a colleague of the DSS has suggested and the other MPs to state another word or two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7644	A group of 54 MPs of the SNS parliamentary group submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7645	I've already spoken with the amendment to article 6. That's when the debate ended, and I didn't replicate it, I left it for this discussion. I'm going to point out once again that we're pretty suspicious of this whole centralised public procurement procedure. We believe it will be a great challenge for the Republic Fund. A sublegal act will be adopted to define, as you said, the list of products that go into centralised procurement. I want to point out that it seems to me that the comparison with the Belgrade Clinical Centre is not in place until the end and the parallel is not complete and for the next reason. Of course, tender documentation should be prepared, a public procurement procedure should be carried out, selected by the best bidder, but it should also be controlled by the contract implementation process, these funds should be deposited somewhere, distributed to each point, and there are 339 of them, and it seems to me, a network facility, that each of these preparations, medicines, spare parts should be placed at the right time in the right place so that there is no waste. It is much easier to implement it at the Clinical Centre in Belgrade. It is much easier to provide transport and control supplies and quantities. I think it'll be a challenge. If we've been closely following today's debate, we've seen how many problems there are over many simpler things than this one in health care. I'm not sure there's a willingness at this point and the Republic Fund is able to do it the right way. I expect there will be a lot of problems in individual health centres about supplying certain medicines. We'll see about that in the next few months, but I wish you good luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7646	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 16th point of the agenda – Proposal for the Law on the Amendments between the People's Parliaments: Milica Vojić Marković, Milica Radović, Nebojša Zelenović, Miloš Aligrudić, Sanda Rasković Ivić, Mirojko Obradović, Mirjana Dragaš, Mileta Poskurica, Milan Knažević, Ljubica Mrdaković, Branislav Blažić, Predrag Mijatović, Aleksandar Radojić, Bojana Božanić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Iran Žažažić, Zoran Antić, Igor Betić, Igor Berić, Nebojša Berić, Jelja Božić, Irna Vuović, Irna Vujić, Dragar Žirić, Miran Žiković, Mirožan Žiković, Im Žiković, Iran Žiković, Iran Žiković, Iran Žiković, Im Staraković, Ir. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. National MP Srdjan Shine, on 27 November 2012, wrote in writing, withdrew the amendment to add a new member to article 1. National MP Mirjana Dragas, on 1 December 2012, withdrew the amendment in writing to Article 4. National MPs Radojko Obradovic and Miroslav Petkovic, written on 5 December 2012, withdrew the amendment to Article 2. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he rejected as incomplete, amendments of the People's MPs: Milos Aligrudić and Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who is added after Article 2a and who, after Article 4, is added a new member of 4a, the amendment of the MPs Milice Vojić Markovic and Milice Radovic, who is added after Article 5a and after Article 8a. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Health and Family have tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 1 be added above Article 1. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shin. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7647	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to try to continue the debate we had on the committee on the amendment that I've proposed. I don't think there's any dispute, we're talking to the Minister and Government about the very idea. Another thing that doesn't represent a problem for me, which is the question of the formulation itself. I'm really leaving room here to make eventually some common shifts. Where, on the basis of the government's argument, we have a dispute, which is the question of whether or not this is the place in this law, whether this idea can be realised within the framework of an existing legal system within this law or not. In order to really come up with some common points of view and look at things from the same angles, I just have to do a little analysis of the existing legal system and certain terms so that we can continue this work, taking it as a reservation that we won't be doing it in this law for long, but to be clear where it belongs and to solve it, if you agree that we don't have any problems with the very idea that this law carries. So it's about the next one. The Health Insurance Act itself, in Article 1, when speaking about what is the subject of the Insurance Act, states in the last paragraph that these laws deal with issues of importance for the health insurance system. To me, this is no doubt a question that is important to the health insurance system. Article 11 states, among other things, that the principles of solidarity and mutuality are to be based on the principle of solidarity and mutuality between different sexes. So when we talk about it, then we say it's the basis of this. Where do we have a problem now, and where do I think we should try to look from different angles? The current solution and how it looks at your ministry is the angle where you look at your mother. Why does it matter if I say it? If we go back to the previous law, which defines social health care at the level of the Republic, then we'll see that the starting point of everything, and the starting point and defining of this member, in fact, is the defining of a population group that needs to be provided with health insurance. All I'd ask is for us to evaluate this together. So the key word is which group are we talking about? The previous law referred to women as a group. In my proposal, we define the family as a group where the mother is part of that family, where the category is not isolated. If I were really right, I'd run this article's analysis, let's see if it's really different categories of population, and if those categories were population, you'd only listen to me who are now in this law. The existing law says that the same treatment has monks and nuns. The same protection shall be given to members of the families of persons who are on military service. This law also puts one of the points of view on the part of the Roma national community. Therefore, this Article 22 is not only a member, or only a position that defines the position of a woman in this matter, but is referred to as different population groups. If we come from the family as basic values, as basic groups and families that have no other basis, the possibility of participating spouses in the family planning process, because it is impossible to plan a family, I have tried to talk to experts, it is impossible to plan a family only if you give women the possibility that they may have a specific procedure or a particular treatment, as medically said, that they have that protection. Also, your colleagues told me that, about, when we talk about planning a family of those families that can't have children, that there's approximately a risk shared 40:40:20, that 40% talk about women, 40% about men and 20% about some common factors, that indeed in these families they would create the possibility of having children. So obviously in the family planning process, the responsibilities of the spouses are shared, I speak medically. To really make it happen, it's doubtless a place here. So we're the only ones changing the angle. The legislator who had previously defined the law, he stood in a corner where he saw a woman as one of the groups provided by insurance, and today we are moving to the EU's position, to the point of view of the law that we are harmonising with certain contemporary views of the EU and human and minority rights, and we no longer see only a woman as responsible for children, but we see family, or spouses in this situation as a group. There's a qualitative new definition of the group we're talking about. If I were really right, or at least it helped me look at it from this angle, once again I remind you that in a law that regulates what a social concern for health is at the level of the Republic of this group that is spoken of here, they are listed in that law, but they are listed in one older way, in one conservative way, and not in one way that we change the definition in this sense. If it were really groupings, I ask you to consult together Article 11, where, without a doubt, the basic entity of those rights is a population group, and we have defined in different ways what groups they are. I repeat again, are they nuns, are they monks, are they Roma, are they women, etc. At this point we define it in a new way, we approach European standards, we approach how modern legislation sees it, and we define human and minority rights on the role of men and women in the family, we even them as spouses, and we say that family is the center of observation in this, when we talk about the goal itself, and the goal of the law is to create a healthy family, and I say that in a certain time. So we're talking about a family that contributes to the fight against the white plague. We're not talking about family as a category from the beginning to the end of community creation. I can accept that the time I have proposed the amendment, 24 months, that we should return to 12 months, is for me a technical question and a question that is now being asked – whether we are in a position to send it or not, but the minimum resources would be allocated from the budget if this view spreads, and we would get a qualitatively new approach to observing this group. Once again I say, I can accept to get rid of it by some other law, but I have to remind you that if we analyse the subject matter of different laws, then, once again I'm going to do it again, the subject of this law is defined in Article 1 and it's in line with this. The subject matter of the Labour Act refers only to those persons who are in a certain relationship with the labour market, to the employer and who have in a certain way defined those relations, and hence their right to do so. In this situation we can say that they had to be on the labour market, but we can say that for other categories, like, let's say, they're members of the family of the person who's serving the military term. By introducing different categories, we say that there are such families in Serbia that have no relationship with the labour market, so they can draw that possibility from it, and that every child in Serbia is important to us and that we fight the white plague and define it as one problem. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7648	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7649	It is obvious that you have dealt in detail with parenting and gender equality issues, which are closely treated by the laws you mentioned, the family law and the Law on Child Care, which gives the father the right to care for the child as well as his mother. As far as these rights are concerned, they are even. When it comes to Article 22 and this amendment we have proposed, it refers to the idea that insurance undertakings within the meaning of this law and under the conditions prescribed by this law are considered persons who belong to a population group exposed to an increased risk of disease. It's a mother. Birth, no matter what a physiological act, is a significant period behind the birth of a woman, makes her immune status changed. It is actually in the position that it needs the savings of different levels, from physical and psychological trauma and the minimum provision of material existence. So, the tendency was to protect the birthing act and its health, by this very change. We agreed last time, in the debate in principle, that we should go on this, to look for a way for our family to really be the basis for legislative and other activities. That's where we fully agree, and in that sense, we'll make further arrangements. On this basis, if a child's father is a person who is unemployed or belongs to another category of social hazard, whose monthly income below this law already falls under Article 22. So, if the father in that category, point 9 of Article 22, is already predicting that such an unemployed person and other categories of socially endangered, which are precisely the persons you spoke of, whose monthly incomes below the incomes established under this law, are entitled under Article 22, and I don't think there's any reason why we're fighting for the same standards. I don't think there's any reason to say it's the father again. If the father is in this category, he's already in Article 22.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7650	Thank you. Mr. Shane's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7651	I'll accept that argument and withdraw the amendment, but just to make my point. I guess I wasn't clear enough, so the lawyers who apparently talk about it and defend their attitude seem to look a little different than others do. We're talking about an old solution. We're not talking about the proposal of what we're talking about today. An old solution on old grounds, an old solution part of a stereotype, and an old solution part of a conservative-legal approach to resolving this issue. In what way? Are you talking about observing your mother as someone and I don't have a dispute here. I'm only talking about one different approach, not just seeing my mother as a category anymore, but watching my parents in the process. So this doesn't rule this out. It has nothing to do with anything, only in legal technology can we put it together in the marriage directory so that they don't separate their mother and husband. But if we're talking about another observation, then I'm asking the next question. If that's the case, then why do we single out the mother? If under all other conditions she has full health care, then she doesn't need to be singled out of it either. Is the very fact that we've moved one spouse out, singled out, recognized that problem, indicates that we really have one category of population. I couldn't agree more. So I'm only talking about one other approach to things. Not about the approach of things, that we have a solution, we have an old law. We are now proposing new solutions, using this new approach and this new relationship. I accept that we're working on it together, and if you stay in that position, I'll withdraw the amendment, but I think we need to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7652	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7653	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unless Srdjan Shane withdraws the amendment, as representative of the People's Peasant Party, I have an obligation to vote in favour of this amendment, and Srdjan Shane has not read it – spouses and women in connection with family planning and during pregnancy and parents until 24 months after delivery enjoy complete health care. That's the essence of that amendment. I didn't hear him read it. For the reason that the white plague threatens us, I will support that amendment and vote unless the promoter withdraws it. The reason for that is, of course, that I live in the country, which most peasants are not on various grounds, is not otherwise secured, and many are without any insurance and if they plan to have a family and get a new one, and peasants are people who don't know what vacation is, summering, wintering, with a minimum of health care, because when they don't pay contributions as natural persons, they don't turn down and have to pay it sooner or later, even after three years. So they are not covered by the law that Mr Dinkic proposed that employers who did not pay contributions to health insurance, they are sorry, this does not apply to farmers. Many of them are not-are the subject of insurance, but since they pay less, so, during pregnancy, during the course of the 24 months, they are not insured in another way and if they wanted to, they simply can't pay for it. This would be the only way to get that insurance. I think it would encourage as much as possible in Serbia where more than 10 bellows come to a country in one baptism, so that it might increase this number of baptisms, so there won't be one to 10 beers, at least two. We're running out of peasants and rural people, we're running out of villages and smaller towns. For that reason, whether the amendment is precise or not, I will support it unless it is withdrawn. The reason is even bigger, let's say that an unemployed person, who is a transvestite, an unemployed person has insurance and even has the right to be paid by the state for a change of half. If that's the case, then I will support this amendment not with one hand but with two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7654	Thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milica Radovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Milos Aligrudic appears in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7655	So, I want to advertise Article 19's injury. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and of Articles 150 and 161 to 166. Rules of Procedure. Namely, a number of amendments have been tabled by the DSS parliamentary group, our MPs, who are in the process of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives being rejected as unauthorized, and here in the explanation it stands as incomplete. Apparently because they're leaving the circle of matter that's being discussed, the law passed by the government. This is about the absolute non-implementation of Article 19. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly when it comes to the obligation of the President of the National Assembly, and you are the Vice President, and you will convey, on coordinated work and on keeping an account of the coordinated work of the Committee of the National Assembly. Therefore, it is impossible in one case when it comes to the Law on the National Bank, the Committee on Finance to submit an amendment that has such a mark, to add a new member to the law proposed by the Government, so that it is considered, not to be disqualified in the National Assembly, and that a series of amendments which have been disqualified suddenly appear. That's amazing. We are saying that there is an amendment that will be discussed here, which I have submitted, in about 10 minutes, which has the same characteristics which, according to this position of the Legislative Committee, had to be rejected, and now will be debated. It's just amazing. So how is that possible? We have submitted a very nice amendment, yet to the Health Care Act, which requires the introduction, the reintroduction of volunteer specialization. The amendment was absolutely disqualified from the debate, although it cost neither society nor state, but it was a beautiful thing that you could accept. So, I want to tell you, let's get the president of the National Assembly to take care of this matter, because nowhere in the Rules of Procedure writes an instruction to treat the amendments that have been submitted in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7656	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Radojko Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7657	This will only help the president of the Committee. There's something else going on. We have two amendments that are exactly the same as the government's amendments, not the bill, but the government's amendments. These are on Article 5 and Article 8. The difference is that we propose that the deadline be 2013, and the government proposes, and there is a completely identical text. The government's amendment was accepted, and the amendment by Milice Vojic Markovic and Milice Radovic was rejected as incomplete, rejected as incomplete. It is just amazing, for the first time, that the government that is fully equal in the process of submitting amendments, that the government puts itself in a dominant position in relation to MPs, so that not only are there favorite parliamentary groups, but there is also a difference in relation. I checked in with article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7658	The word is Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7659	I am reporting as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. This is at least the tenth time that I am speaking in this Assembly on the same subject, and the theme is that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in many of their elements is quite vague and I think we all agree on this, and I think we will agree that in many parts we should consider, and that is the responsibility of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, that the Rules of Procedure should be amended eventually. So, perhaps even the least of the problems, this question is whether the amendments come out of the draft law or not, and I've never been a problem, and I've said at least ten times that I'm very often sorry that we have to reject the amendments, and I've often told the ministers who represent the Government openly that we had to get out of the amendment procedure, just because the Rules of Procedure are somewhat vague. Let us immediately agree, once and for all, that it is not the basis for the rejection of amendments whether a new member, a new position and so on is being inserted. He was a colleague of Palalic in front of the DSS then present, we already agreed once that, if it is grammatically necessary to insert a new member, a new position, we will insert him, if he does not come out of the framework of the bill. We don't want any laws entering our congregation procedure where we would be ashamed of Vuk Karadzic. On the other hand, if the amendment goes directly beyond the framework of the Rules of Procedure, I think it is Article 161(1) if I am not mistaken, because it defines what the amendment is and must unfortunately be rejected. So, I don't mind if I say whether the amendments we rejected as incompletes, which the DSS has submitted, and surely they are quality, well-intentioned, and I believe that the minister will carefully study these amendments so that in some other way he may enter the procedure, but we simply had the opportunity to discuss them. On the other hand, you had to point out that the DSS has a representative on the Committee, I don't remember, we can check whether he was present at the time, I don't have any malicious, many amendments when he comes, understand and expert services of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, who are preparing a session, if they are having an amendment or if there are problems with some amendments, then the proposing representatives should help professional services that I consider to be extremely good at doing their job. Finally, I am fully prepared that at the first next session, if necessary, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, we should consider one more policy of keeping the issue of amendments, redefine again what the framework of the bill means, and thus allow as many quality and certainly well-intentioned amendments that we had to reject, which is my opinion, we voted unanimously and decided to let the assembly procedure go anyway. To finish that sentence, nothing malicious, and if there's been a leak, we accept. It is then up to the proposing representatives to attend the session, to help professional services, especially when there are very many laws really overloaded. I will really take the opportunity to commend their work and I am ready to redefine at the first next session of the board, the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure which is certainly not the most qualitative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7660	According to Business, Radojko Obradovic is the first, so Aligrudić, so Jovan Palalić and Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7661	Article 168 concerning amendments, and I'll make it very brief, to simplify the story. In its proposal to amend and supplement the law, the government proposed to amend Article 43, Article 51 and Article 177, and then the government's amendment to add a position in Article 96. No such reference is made in the basic text. This is an amendment that is completely identical to the amendment of my colleagues, this one is legally possible, and this one has been rejected as legally impossible. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7662	Mr. Aligrudic gives up. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7663	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, it is true what my colleague Cvian said that at one session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives we discussed the problem as the amendment is being written. We have established to continue the practice that was in the previous period, not to go beyond the frameworks that have been defined by changes and additions. For the first time, this practice was interrupted by amendments to the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly, not the Government, but by MPs of the National Assembly, on a proposal to amend the NBS Act, where it was not about grammatical errors, but it was said in the amendment – after Article 6a, a new Article 6a was added, it was completely out of the box. Our MP group did exactly the same thing in this situation, because it was a practice on the Committee. As for this question that my colleague Cvian said, I am sorry, I was not present at the last session of the board, because our parliamentary group did not participate in the work, since we supported our countrymen at the barricades in Jarinj, but certainly that we were then, we would point to this problem that existed at the time. I don't think in this situation it's been done in an even way. We had a situation that the Government's amendment was identical and accepted, that one amendment of our colleague was accepted and that others were rejected. We'll either respect one practice that's been called up to this, or we'll change, but then we have to act in every situation in the same way. That's very important. I would like to ask the President of the Committee then to schedule a session as soon as possible, because these amendments are already under the following laws, and here is our parliamentary group and colleague Radojko Obradovic, who has submitted one such amendment, and we want to see how he will behave under this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7664	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7665	Mr. Chairman, I am reporting under Article 107, because my colleague, Milica Radovic, and I have submitted this famous amendment to which so much has been said, because we do not want that amendment simply to be rejected in such a way. I'm absolutely sure and I'm behind this amendment that's both of its quality in matter and above all it's grammatically correct. I'd hate to talk to you about whether we can do the grammar and the right thing to do the amendment. We can.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7666	Please, Mr. Cvian, to be honest, I gave you my word, because a man before you advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I gave you as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to give an explanation, but beyond the Rules of Procedure. Let's get this over with, with this debate, we're not gonna get anywhere, this needs to be asked a serious question, people are very important, we need to discuss it on the relevant committee, because here I can't solve it. I'm sticking to Article 163 where he says when the competent committee of incomplete amendments refuses, we're not discussing them. I think he deserves you to discuss it on a special committee, agree, and then we'll avoid these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7667	I didn't answer the line, just because my name was mentioned, to say something wrong, even on the contrary, to support it. So I didn't say at any point that the amendments were grammatically incorrect, I was just explaining when we allow a new member and for what reasons. I think it's correct on my part, I'm sure the minister will be willing to read the amendments that have been rejected, and if Col. Palalic agrees, on the first next committee, we'll redefine the rules that apply, not for some evil intent, for one reason or another, favouring one of the promoters in relation to the other, some amendments rejected, and some are not. So we have a technical error, we have a vague Rules of Procedure, and what is said is, I just want to end the discussion. There is no malice, the first time we will discuss a new policy, i.e. a new interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7668	Thank you. The word is Milica Radovic, on what basis? By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7669	Before I begin to explain my amendment, I must say that even if the Rules of Procedure are unclear or not precise, Mr. Cvian is a lawyer and he must use legal logic. Our amendment, amendment by my colleague Vojić Markovic and my amendment to the government, which has been accepted and became an integral part of this text of the law. For this reason, there is no basis for his rejection today. I don't want to waste my time with the MPs' group. (President: Please, you said we were discussing the amendment that you have put on the agenda here, and you are now entering the line. We're not going anywhere like that. Please, move to the amendment, we've also completed the violation of Rules of Procedure and replicas, and we're now moving on to this amendment. Please respect that. Here you go. Now I ask you to give me back my time, so that I may have the opportunity to explain my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7670	I'm just canceling the time, so call me back.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7671	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We're talking again about farmers in this bill. We're asking farmers to obtain insurance status within the meaning of Article 22 of this bill. In previous law, the Health Protection Act launched a very serious and quality debate on the amendments that, co-worker Vojić Markovic and I submitted, which we asked for the same thing. I was impressed by the debate that the Minister might be willing to accept even this amendment, if we might define it a little more precisely, if we add that this applies to farmers up to 0.5 hectares of land. I'd like to appeal to you, if of course there is such a will, we're very much willing to make that amendment precise and correct. In the very explanation why the amendment is being rejected, I think the government is starting to see the current situation and the situation of the Serbian peasant. I'm not talking about farmers who handle dozens of hectares of land, I'm talking about an average Serbian peasant, who handles maybe only three acres of land, which has two cows and who may have an IMP tractor, 30 to 40 years old, and who can earn only a few thousand euros a year on that basis, and of course, if time serves it. If there's a year as dry as this year, I doubt it could make that much. Of course, agriculture in Serbia is not business, it is mere survival and, of course, we believe that this amendment should be accepted, because it would solve the situation of a large number of insurance companies, which in this sense are not subject to that property. We cannot act like that, as if agriculture in Serbia is at the level of one that is in Denmark, where farmers process 50 hectares of land, this is about agriculture as a matter of activity, where farmers literally, in the true sense of words, survive.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7672	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7673	In the afternoon part of this day, I spoke about farmers and talked about something that is the same problem with us in this Health Insurance Act, which is the problem that even students are not adequately protected by the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act. According to the Health Insurance Act, students are confirmed to provide up to 26 years of age, compulsory health insurance, as family members through parents. If they do not have parents, they shall be provided with Article 22. The law, as students, up to 26 years old, on the burden of the budget of the Republic of Serbia and on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, pays contributions to health insurance. Because fortunately most students have parents, then they are insured on the basis of their parents. What's the problem? I want to talk about this problem on behalf of the students who authorized me, and I repeat it again as last week, and the patients who authorized me to speak for them and speak for the students of the Faculty of Law in Nis. What's the problem? The current legal solution foresees that if a student's parent does not have a steady contribution to health insurance or otherwise, no health insurance, the student also does not have the right to overwrite the health book, and thus has no right to use health services. The legislator's intention is, in some way, to punish the person who... (President: Mr. Milisavic, I think that... I'm an authorised representative, I have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7674	No, that's not the point. You have the right to speak, but you must stick to the agenda. This is where the amendment was given to farmers. You have now extended the subject to students, etc., which is not the subject of this. You mean you're right, but you have to stick to the agenda, so please get back to the amendment if you have something, if you don't, then please give up the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7675	Thank you so much for the suggestion. I'm going to insist on fighting for my students' rights, so for the next amendment, I'm going to come forward and continue the student problem to explain to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7676	I agree to call you when it's time. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7677	To avoid a new SPO story in all governments, including the previous government, we pointed to the difficult position of our agriculture and our farmers, we presented a number of statistical indicators and asked that the state in all segments of its activities improve this terribly poor position. One measure, which could improve farmers, is also proposed an excellent DSS amendment. Our agricultural possessions are extremely depreciated. The average size of agricultural-processing land is three or four hectares, and this category, if a legal technical order were to be carried out within the board of directors and we see that the minister is fully understood, would be one in a series of necessary measures, which the state must take, that is, this government in this term, because time stands out, because of several facts that all of us need to worry about, to discourage, but also to awaken. In fact, there are 4800 villages in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. If nothing is done in terms of a systematic solution to the constant emptying of the village, we will remain without 25% of the village or 1200 villages in the next five to ten years alone. In the last ten years, in 360 villages, only funerals have been carried out, no children have been born. We are a nation that has more inhabitants than 65 years old, than younger than 15, and therefore, any topic to launch, any legal proposal to be on the agenda, the SPO and the DHSS will point to this problem, because we believe that the existence of the village is dangerous. Believe me, Minister, that even within your jurisdiction, you can make a small, symbolic, but important contribution within all other measures, which the Government, does not need to consider whether to take, the measures it must take systematically in all areas of the functioning of this government. This government can achieve good results in the fight against corruption and crime, it can get the status for a date to start negotiations, we can enter the EU, but what it will mean to us if we run out of population in the rural area, if further discharge and economic but very rare numbers of economically healthy continents in the rural area continue. General demographic trends show a terrible way to escape people, precisely because they believe that the state is not doing anything in this direction to keep the peasant on his land and to stay in the country. That's why the country's safety is at stake. The country's economy is also at risk. Agriculture is the way it is. On your knees is still our largest export branch, but the country's economy will also be dangerously endangered, because you can accept this amendment under your jurisdiction and you have done your job as far as you are concerned. A colleague, Shane, has proposed another amendment, which also makes sense, which again waves along with those socially endangered families, to a large extent also refers to farmers. Surely you know that many boys in the years 45 to 50 are forced to go to Albania, to bring Albanians, because simply our Serbian women do not see a perspective in our villages and are forced to... We don't think it's bad, but it shows how desperate these people are. If you're talking to them, and you saw them now and in the last campaign, everyone says the state has given up on them. By accepting this amendment, the SPO never has a complex, regardless of what is in the spirit of our programme, in the spirit of our principles, we are very pleased to listen to the way all political parties think. Any political party that goes in that direction, which we think is general, will have no problem in us supporting its political stance, its intention or their amendment. Therefore, I would ask you to accept this very meaningful and correct amendment in the legal and technical order with the committee in charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7678	Thank you. The word is Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7679	The questions related to the legal and technical redistribution could not possibly be disputed in such a correct dialogue that we have for my great pleasure, but this is about finance. By expanding our rights, we've expanded our rights with regard to Article 22. The health insurance law and what we have ensured is that immunization, that screenings and that the rights of single parents of children up to seven years of age to health care are absolute, we have absolutely exhausted those frameworks that health care has for all the reasons that we have talked about today on many occasions. There is no single reason for farmers to really deserve a different treatment in all future activities, especially in the case of new texts and the Health Protection and Insurance Act, and we will have to have a financial basis in order to realize that. I repeat once again that those farmers who have less than half a hectares have conditions to become users of permanent financial assistance under social protection regulations, which means they are absolutely in this article already. Many of them don't even know the right and function of all of us, and so is the apostle that we should really direct people to use this right.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7680	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7681	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I will support this amendment. As president of the People's Peasant Party, it is my duty to support all amendments, whoever suggested them. So if the party of the former regime had proposed them, I would have supported them. I think the peasants have made this country modern. So, both Karadjordje and Milos Obrenovic were peasants, as you know. Every day when we enter the congregation, look a little right, stands the Karajordje and holds these three fingers. So in his time there was money for peasants too, there was money to be made and the state, there was money and there was money to be paid to the Turks, there was money to be created and the country not to be in debt. There was also money to heal the people as well as he was treated at that time in some other parts. I fully support this amendment. The villagers are martyrs. I've already said they have no right to vacation, no vacation, no wintering. The sea didn't see 99% of the peasants. That 1% served the Navy. This kind of population, if it runs out of social protection, and those half acre you've been talking about, can only lead to the following, that hosts who have two, three hectares have to sell two and a half acres to enjoy what unemployed people and social cases enjoy. The message we're sending is that someone with half a hectare has the right to have health insurance on the cost of the state, and that whoever has a little more than half a hectare is very bad. We're sending a message that it's better to be a social case than a peasant. I believe there's no money, but for farmers, it should be found. There's something else I want to say. It's not our political parties that blame us, and it's not our fault the MPs from other political parties, we peasants are ourselves to blame for the situation that has hit us. We sold our votes cheaply. When they take our votes, everything else goes after the vote. That's why the villagers are in a position to be good just to work, to war and pay taxes, as much as they can right now. So, at this time of some false Europeanism, where we think Europe will be a country of dembel, where different color lengths are supported, where various false values are supported, I will always define myself to support Serbia and traditions, Serbia's fields, plums, Milos, Karadjords, not Serbia's rainbow colors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7682	Thank you. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7683	Dear Minister of Health, the Honorable Chairman, we are talking again about the subject we discussed during the afternoon. It is related to the draft law in the field of health care. This time it's health insurance, but it's the same theme, actually, it's the same thing. What I suggested through the amendment I see was not accepted. It was not accepted either on the Board of Fatals, but it was very important on the Committee on Health that some colleagues and colleagues did not even understand what it was really about. It's a key thing. For the entire duration of the Health Committee, some were spinning their heads, and some were not clear. So let me get this straight. We need serious reform in the Health Insurance Act. This amendment to Article 22, I really wouldn't call it cosmetic, because as a representative of the DS watch, yes, the DS supports every extension of rights and there's no dispute, this isn't enough. That's what's key. So this isn't enough. We now have a situation where children, pregnant women, and foster parents of farmers and entrepreneurs, who have not paid their contributions, cannot be treated. That's the point. I tried some legal gymnastics to insert that amendment here and it wasn't accepted. To be honest, he doesn't belong here, but I don't see any reason why everyone here could not agree that children in Serbia should be treated on equal terms. Let's agree on that. All children in Serbia should be treated. I don't know if anyone has a problem with that. Let's make it happen now. How can we let them do that when they come to my office every day at least two people looking for insurance? They don't ask for insurance for themselves, I'm talking about farmers. They don't ask for treatment, they know they haven't paid their contributions and they're aware it's dry and they don't have money and they've got things in common, but I'm talking about their children. Now on one case, I'm going to show you how it works in the whole system. So if you have a pregnant farmer's wife, she needs to do it until she's given birth to do a series of preventive examinations, both dental and general and gynological, but she can't do it because she doesn't have a book. Then we have a situation that even doctors can't give her proper medical care, which she's right to, because no one's gonna take her to a health care facility. Then our elected doctors, elected gynecologists, elected dentists can't earn their salary, because they won't meet the plan, because these people aren't in the system at all. So this pregnant woman, this health care system of ours, doesn't see until she gets to the hospital to have a baby. What about the analysis of her medical condition and what's she gonna be like, a child born? Let's talk about these things. That's the important thing. We have a system problem. We have a problem with the fact that our system doesn't recognize a pregnant woman who doesn't have a certified book until she comes to give birth, and we've had six months to seriously deal with her health and to affect her child's health. Then how are the chosen doctors going to earn the salary? How are dentists gonna make a living? Not to mention the situation of dentistry. We've never been more credentials, and now we've cut down dentists, so we have halved dental services, but that's not a topic right now. I'm asking you for a special insurance base for the kids and nothing more than that. I ask you to find a way, given the restrictions on the Rules of Procedure, I could not make a better proposal, or better amendment than the one I've given, but we haven't solved the problem. This amendment has not been adopted, children still cannot be treated and we are where we were before this law was passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7684	The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7685	The content we have proposed to the government and the Ministry of Finance has not found a way at this point, but it is a permanent task of this ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7686	The word is Nebojsa Zelenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7687	I'll just take a minute. This isn't a good answer. So I agree, but next time I have citizens who have read or watched you on TV when you say – all children in Serbia can be treated, I will tell them – not to be given to you by the Minister of Health, but rather by Mr Dinkic to treat you. Then I guess it'll be easier for them. Still, people won't be able to heal. Let's get out of that vicious circle who gives who takes, who has the rights. I cannot accept that Minister Dinkic can or cannot accept anything about the treatment of children. If we have an article 68. The constitution also says who is being treated in what way, if he cannot comply with the law, then from public income. What is there Minister Dinkic can or can't, will or won't. Who's this about? Let the children be treated and nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7688	The word has Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7689	The member of the Constitution you mentioned says – in accordance with the law. So, according to the Health Insurance Act. What we talked about, not me, but all of us at the Ministry, can't be the victim of an unpaid contribution, not a child, not a pregnant woman, not a maternity child, a year after birth. It has to regulate the state the way we've repeatedly explained that we've done it. It was the explanation. I didn't say the way you were saying it, and I want to speak it as soon as possible. However, we must be aware that any service must be paid from someone. There is no possibility of free healthcare. Health care is very expensive and someone has to pay. I fully agree with you that this should be a priority of the state. At this point, there was no such thinking, not because either of you and I loved children less, less care about population parameters, less care about maternity care, etc., but because we had already gone to enlargement compared to the previous period that was behind us. So we didn't even have what we've expanded now. It's always an opportunity when we talk about expanding health insurance rights, to see who else could and what else. In such a difficult economic situation, I agree with you, in some modesty, I am talking about cosmetics, because I think, as you do, it is inappropriate that any child, any pregnant woman, regardless of whether they are insured or not, whether someone has paid for the services, that the principle of solidarity must provide them with health care. That's why I use the term cosmetic until your amendment is realized. I'm really going to push for it, but that doesn't mean that when we've expanded the rights a little bit that we can go a lot, because the wishes are one thing and the financial reality is the other.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7690	Are you answering after the Rules of Procedure's injury? Sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7691	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107. It's really incorrect for us to transfer responsibility like this. It is a violation of the dignity of the Assembly and of calling individual ministers. If that's how we're going to respond, this situation is from the time of Mr. Cvetkovic when he was Minister of Finance. Mr Dinkic, in co-operation with Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, has allowed single parents and children up to seven years of age to use the right to free health insurance. I think Mr Dinkic has a very strong obligation at the moment to reduce the public debt and budget deficit we inherited. Absolutely wouldn't mind that these free health insurance rights, which are in line with the World Health Organization recommendation, also allow for wider population categories. He announced that since 1 January 2014, this right will also be given to women who maintain pregnancy and I think that when we speak we should use arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7692	I ask the MPs not to associate events with individuals or laws in their presentations. Behind every law stands the Government, therefore I ask you in that sense to behave. The word has a National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic per replica and we end up with a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7693	I'll be very brief. What's this about? I think it's very inappropriate to invest a breach of the Rules of Procedure on such a serious matter. No one here wanted to insult anyone. All I'm talking about is that we have to, each of you in the government has to take on your own weight of responsibility. Mr. Dinkic can't give something and take something, that he wants something and he doesn't want something. The Constitution is very clear here. I agree there's no money, we all realized there's no money, but next year it'll cost us more. What we want now, a prevention that will cost us a thousand times more in the future. That's what I'm talking about. A pregnant woman who doesn't perform preventive checks during pregnancy, I don't know how a child will be born or what we will do with that child when the child is born. How much is this system gonna cost, not to mention the accident? Please allow pregnant women and all children in Serbia to be treated. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7694	Mr. Zelenovic, I'm obliged to tell you something. Issuing the last part of the words you said, I completely agree, but you must admit that in your previous presentation, you have made an offensive statement about the minister and I think it is the right of the MP to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, please, and in your debate and discussion, I won't go in if you're in the middle of the agenda. The word has Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7695	Nostalgically remembering the time when we were just taking a health book when we got sick, and everything else was the care of doctors and health services, I have to be glad to realize that it never happened that the invoice was tied to the child, whether it was secure or not, or whether it was for the mother or the maternity leave. We can't popularize that kind of protection. This was true during the period when Mr. Kostunica was prime minister and Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic was prime minister, and so is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7696	The word is Dusan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7697	I will continue what I just started, and this is a problem for the health insurance of children and students, given that the amendment is broader and that it explains the problems of children and mothers. I will concentrate on the students and I will say that I have been asked and I have been given the authority of the student association of lawyers to point out the problems students face in Serbia. What does the current law foresee? According to the Health Insurance Act, students under the age of 26 have compulsory health insurance. They're being secured as family members through their parents.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7698	Mr. Milosavlevich, please. (Disabled Peacephone.) ) (Dusan Milosavljevic, from the place: We talk to children, children are up to 26 years old. I turned off your microphone, Mr. Milosavlevich. You can't hear yourself. Here you go, Mr. Zelenovic. Would you like a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7699	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. Please read what the amendment is about, so you can take away a man's word. So it's about insurance, about expanding insurance rights. I was talking about children and pregnant women, and the man was talking about students, kids who went to school regularly until they were 26. You have no right to act like one. The man has to talk, he's in the dark, we're talking about the amendment. Please give him your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7700	Mr. People's MPs, we here need to learn to respect the agenda and be dignified in this regard. It's not appropriate, you have to admit, that you start talking at any point about the problem that's bothering you. Maybe it's up to the other presidents, but it bothers me. You don't respect, you insult the Rules of Procedure, you insult the Assembly when you start talking outside the agenda. Let us focus on the law and bring it to an end as it is worthy. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7701	Article 106, the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I want to talk about Mr. Zelenovic's proposed amendment. You're not letting me tell my presentation on his amendment right now. On purpose or not, students are left out, although children and students are recognised the same status, even with the same attitude of Article 22, health insurance of children and students is regulated. I want to, because Mr. Zelenovic wants to extend it with his amendment, and you keep not giving me, and you don't give me very rudely. You're shutting me down, and you're keeping your seat unparliamentary. So you're violating the role of the chairman. Please, let me finish my presentation, because the presentation is part of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7702	You may state that in the voting day, whether or not I hurt the Rules of Procedure. We're continuing on the agenda. Are you asking to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7703	Well, you violated the right to talk about students. It's certainly a request to vote on your presidency, that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7704	In the day of the vote, MPs will declare whether there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Milos Aligrudic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7705	I won't be strict. It's about art. 27th and 19th. I beg you, most beautiful please, it's not about my group or intervention about it. There are known huge differences, the bar between us and the DS, but it's amazing, please concentrate and lead in terms of Article 27, this session properly. It makes a very ugly impression. People have explained what the injury consists of. She's obvious and the farce is to talk about that injury or vote on it in the voting day. I think this situation is very simply overcome by giving a man the word to continue where he left off, because for all of us here, whether in political differences or not, it is clear that man had the right to explain the amendment. Don't please, what else can I tell you?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7706	I'll take it. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7707	The amendment of counterpart Zelenovic is an excellent amendment and we will support him in the voting day. The truth is, what's missing by reason of the law, there's no financial analysis to see which of these categories of persons to be added, what costs to the Fund are produced. If there's anything missing in the explanation, that information is missing. The second thing, Col. Novakovic presented several data this morning and I completely agree with her. There's plenty of room for savings in the health system. If we want to solve a problem, then we'll find a solution. There is an opportunity to save in the budget, there is an opportunity to save in health care institutions, but if there is a problem, and we have agreed that there is, then we need to accept the amendment and continue to solve and find the funds. I'm sure they're not insolvent assets and we can remove and significantly improve the quality of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7708	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Miss Alexandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7709	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We, as a parliamentary group, will also support this amendment. Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic is unable to accept it, since she does not represent her ministry here. She's a government official here. The government does not accept that amendment, but as far as I understand it, it would personally have no objection to the adoption of the amendment if there were funds. Fortunately, it is not the Government who makes the decision on which the amendment will be adopted and which will not be adopted. It's fortunate that it's not the government who ultimately decides what the law will look like. It is this National Assembly and the opinion of the Government of the People's Parliament does not oblige them to vote in one way or another. That is why I call on my colleagues to accept this amendment in the voting day, since this explanation that there is no money for such matters is not something that can be acceptable in the National Assembly. And there's no money for farmers, no money for maternity care, no money for pregnant women who are pregnant. That's what we had when we adopted the budget. There's no money for kids, there's no money for these, there's no money for those, and in the budget we saw that's why there's more than enough money for other things. When we adopted the budget, I, inspired by one crazy figure in that budget, asked Alexander Vukic – how many employees there are in the BIA, because for salaries for BIA, it was a mystery to me how there are billions of dinars for BIA salaries, how there is money for sports clubs, how there is money for various strange services, counter-services or secret services, and we see that there is no money for these things. Therefore, I call on my colleagues to adopt this amendment, regardless of the government's opinion, because this assembly has this advantage over the government, that it is the one who makes the laws, not the government, because only in this House here, in this room, the elected representatives of citizens and the laws will look as the Assembly says and how the MPs decide here, and if the MPs decide to accept this amendment, then they will have to find money for such things, or the government will not respect the laws, which is then a much deeper problem than the one we are talking about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7710	Thank you. Does anyone want a replica maybe? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when someone talks about the government's reasoning -- no money, no money, first I have to ask a question, when it comes to agriculture, how much of the agrarian budget under the 2013 Budget Act is bigger both in nominal and in percentage terms than in 2012? This is a replica to the presentation of the previous speaker. (Employees of the DS Group are getting: Who did she mention? ) The Parliament's majority. If someone says they don't have money for pregnant women, I'm very interested... (Chairman: Please don't throw it away.) )......................................................................................................... why he had no such attitudes for the previous government when he supported that same previous government. When someone says there is no money, let them assume and take their individual responsibility for supporting the government that brought the Republic of Serbia to the brink of financial survival. When you finally take that, that part of responsibility, then you have the right to make it out of the budget that's bigger than when you supported that government, you also criticize this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7712	Thank you. Alexander Jerkov's national emissary, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7713	I may be able to get some respect, but if I hadn't stood up for pregnant women, that's absolutely impossible for anyone to say. When Tomica Milosavljevic abolished the full salary of pregnant women who are pregnant, for five years every year I asked to ensure it, when it could not be in the republican budget, because he called it politics, we took care, where we could, of the local self-government budgets, of money for pregnant women. It's not about what it's about. You've entered the O.R., so I can understand now that you don't know what this is about, but please don't answer for a word off topic unless it's allowed by previous speakers. Please, the chairman, if anyone can speak as they please, then let anyone speak, and not just some, that they can talk about whatever they want, and some of them can't talk about the subject of the agenda. Please pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7714	Please do not mention a name or a party when having a discussion. As soon as you mention the party, I must give my word to the head of the Parliament Club. Therefore, you must be careful here. Replica, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7715	You're saying you didn't mention there was no money in the farm... (President: Mr Arsic, please, after the minister first called, she has the advantage. I beg you to finish, since you gave me your word. I don't think Mrs. Secretary would mind, too. Are you saying that you didn't mention agriculture in your presentation? Should we find a stenogram and take a look? Yes, you mentioned agriculture, and that means this government doesn't take care of farmers. When you submitted those amendments and when they were rejected, why did you support that government? When I disagree with something, I don't accept facts as reality and then I have the right to not support anything. If you supported this government, you yourself pointed to a problem that the government did not solve and through that support to the government, you are certainly an accomplice to what the government was doing. If you were unable to do so while you were an MP for the ruling majority, or former regime, do not honor us for having to deal with financial problems in this way now. No one can convince anyone else in Serbia that all these duties, which took place in the rebalancing for 2012, are the fault of this government, but it is the government of Mr Cvetkovic that you supported. Accept that part of responsibility. When we solve the financial situation in the republic, make sure there's more money for both farmers and pensioners and pregnant women who maintain pregnancy.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7716	The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7717	The government recognized the problem Ms. Jerkov is talking about and gave the amendment to Article 96, which says pregnant women will have 100% paid sick leave, with 65% of the funds being received from the Republic Health Insurance Office and the Republic of Serbia's 35% budget. But she estimated that it was possible as of 1 January 2014. So we all really think about the same categories. The election is far, another three and a half years away, so maybe there's no reason for these things that aren't at all controversial to impose and bid on anyone who cares more. It is clear that MPs are more than responsible for their parliamentary function, regardless of which political option they belong.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7718	Alexandra Jerkov, replica. But please give up the replica. I think it's more pointless to replicate. (Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, from the post: She reported in my replica. She checked in early. It's not your replica, it's Mr. Arsic's replica. So, please, you've caused a replica and we're done with the replicas. Since there are a lot of people reported, I'll read them. First comes Borislav Stefanovic, Snezana Stojanović Plassic, Vesna Kovac, Mirko Cikiriz and Nebojsa Zelenovic. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7719	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, of course we support this amendment, but it is also very important that we try some things in this Assembly as much as possible for the citizens, but also for each other. First, MPs serve to give their opinion and to criticise government or ruling majority moves. That, General, must be accepted by you, even when it often seems completely pointless to you. Believe me, there's a lot of things on this side that seem pointless to us, but it's such a Rules of Procedure, it's missing, and it needs to be changed, and I hope we have some kind of future agreement here. As far as other matters are concerned, this amendment is not populist, it goes completely on the line of one humane, if you will, and a social-democratic principle that is common to many of us in the opposition, but also to those in the ruling coalition. It's also a fact that the health resort in all governments in the last few years, I don't know how many years, was held by one party that now holds finances. On the other hand, we're glad that the SPS is making, as you said, an expansion within the measures that have been taken. We support that expansion, so we understand each other. Also, in order to be even better understood, when we discussed the Republic of Serbia's budget here, we pointed to these shortcomings, which you and we now agree on. The answer was that there was no political will for these things. For some things, as far as political will is concerned, you of the SPS, as the minister told us, and for some things, you say, it's the Minister of Finance's fault. So it's a fact and it's true. That's what they're going to pay for, not you and not us, but they're going to pay for those pregnant women. That's what I think maybe, a respected colleague of the majority, should have said, not put things out here that don't come out with the truth. You know, the statement that the previous government brought Serbia to the brink of collapse, as far as finance is concerned, has only contributed to that, apart from the castiguing of one party, that what few investors were waiting for to escape, and that the terrible and catastrophic government of Mirko Cvetkovic was borrowing 53 euros a day, and this 143 euros a day. Now let's measure it, and of course it has nothing to do with this amendment, but just as much as this has nothing to do with what I'm saying about the amendment, it had nothing to do with what we heard earlier. Therefore, when you have made a budget, a respected minister, and the budget is not only made by the government, so it is put forward as a proposal in the Assembly, because the Assembly adopts it, but there is a political agreement. There's a big problem. You're as much a victim as the citizens of the victim, because you know exactly, you're a woman from the profession, a woman who may have had to take over this resort a long time ago, you're the person whose eyes are those billions who could go now to these purposes that we're talking about, for pregnant women, for exams, and everything else, which my colleagues know a lot better about, and that money went to the Old Mountain, to the ski resorts, and the money went to thousands and thousands of other things, and they all know and agree. The problem is only when we ask and then they say there's no political will. I don't know what that means, but when you say the election is far away and when you said three and a half months, I thought three and a half months. Maybe you're confused. Thank you. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7720	I don't know on what basis, Arsic. (Veroljub Arsic, from the place: He mentioned me as a colleague. Don't, please. I don't think you really have a basis. Veroljub Arsic, from the post: Then, according to the amendment. ) You have to wait for the order. (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7721	Article 106. The Rules of Procedure, because when the previous speaker gave his opinion, it is the discretionary right of the chairman to determine whether or not the MP has the right to reply, but if the gentleman turns his eyes, gives his hand and says – the MP of the ruling majority, who spoke only did he not speak my name for a moment. So I believe that I have the right to a replica, especially because of the Rules of Procedure, which is now in force, which we are going to change, the Rules of Procedure which we did not bring, but your ruling majority. Not only the Rules of Procedure, we will change Serbia, we will change bad habits, we will change that the ministers treated the state as if it were a foreign state, as if it weren't theirs, we will change it to stop working for themselves, but for the people, because the MPs chose them to be ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7722	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7723	Dear Chairman, Your Honor, I would like to appeal to the provisions of Members 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure, given that for a long time this debate has gone beyond the agenda. As for skeptics who doubt whether this government will function for another three-and-a-half months, three-and-a-half years or maybe eight years...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7724	Please, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7725	I'm sorry. That's how my predecessors reacted. Let these skeptics, I have the right to an explanation...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7726	You have no right. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: I am right, the SPS was called. People's MP, I've turned off your microphone. Word has Snezana Stojanović Plassic On what grounds? [[Slavica Saveljić, from the place: Right to replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7727	The Minister of Finance is mentioned. In the context of this, the money went to the Old Mountain and could be given to pregnant women. We have 90 billion dollars in interest, so that money could have gone on behalf of the family. (President: Please, have you advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, no, no, I was looking for a replica. (President: Then you have no right. How am I not entitled? I'm the deputy head of the parliamentary group. The Minister of Finance, who is from our party, is mentioned. So the 90 billion interest that we have to provide and return this year, that is, to pay what was left of the previous period, could have gone to maternity homes, children, old pensioners, farmers and many other socially endangered categories. I would like to remind you that the previous government of the past days has adopted a national strategy to encourage birth, which also provides for all these measures that we are talking about today. I must say, the strategy has expired, and no measure has been implemented. So, I'm not going to say that DS didn't have the desire to carry out these measures, but I simply have the understanding that there was not enough financial resources to do so, as I now understand that this government has to ensure regular financing of existing commitments, and that from year to year we will enter new grants and allow new categories to have free treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7728	The word is Snezana Stojanović Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7729	Are you sure you won't take my word for it? I'll speak for the amendment, if that's okay with you. The subject of this amendment besides insurance rights is finance. We all advocate the greatest rights of the insurance company, and there is none among us, nor any party, nor any MP who will advocate against the expansion of the rights of the insurance company. What I want to remind you once again is that rights cannot be unlimited. They are not limited by our will. It can only be limited by means. So the money that exists in the Fund and the money in the budget. The former ministers who allegedly denied rights were called here. I'll remind you, since Tomica Milosavljevic was mentioned, that he stood up for the next thing. The sick will be paid out of the Republic Fund. If the state wants to encourage birth, it should do so from the Republic budget. So, society wants to encourage birth, and it will add from the Republic budget, because the Republic Fund is a health bank, as Minister Djukic Dejanovic said. So, it was not Tomica Milosavljevic that abolished the right of pregnant women, but said – gentlemen, if you want to encourage birth, it is a socially important problem, a very important topic, do it from the Republic budget. At that time, finance ministers were from another party, and I did not listen to MPs who were keenly committed to making money out of the budget for this measure, as I did not hear them stand up for it either last year or previous years, because they must have understood that the budget had to be spent rationally. Also, I want to remind you... (President: Please return to the topic. The subject is an amendment. ) The topic is the extension of health care rights. We're talking about rights for pregnant women who don't have health insurance. In order for pregnant women who do not have health insurance to obtain that right from the budget, it must be handled in order to ensure that the right is secured. Are you okay with me? That's what I'm talking about. I will remind you that the budget has been adopted in this Assembly recently and that then the parliamentary group that is now in favour of this amendment did not have an amendment to this topic. The whole budget debate, as far as these or these parliamentary groups are concerned, was about another issue, which was the issue of Vojvodina. These days it will prove whether they were or were wrong. Anyway, this wasn't the central topic for the budget. When the budget has already been adopted, all of us, fully agree, we have the autonomous right to express our views here and to fight for certain citizens' rights, but MPs are also expected to be responsible for the whole state and all citizens together. You can't spend more responsibility than you have. I'm asking you -- if the budget is what it is, where is it now to extend infinite rights in any area? So I fully support free health care. It's a really great idea, but it can't be free. It must be financed from some sources. If we want to, then we'll agree to deny someone else's rights, in social protection, in pensions, in investments, whatever. We did that a while ago here in the Assembly. We've adopted the budget. The budget is what it is. All over it would be destabilization of the budget. I understand that some believe that, past the budget, money can be spent infinitely and made endless debts (President: Please finish, because the time of the parliamentary group is up. All right. The URS Parliament Club will not support an irresponsible attitude towards the Republic budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7730	Thank you. (Dusan Milisavljevic, from town: Replica. According to the Rules of Procedure? (Dusan Milisavljevic, from the place: Replica, as an authorised representative. You have no right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7731	As a party of the former ruling majority... (Snezana Stojanovic, from the post: We are the party of the former ruling majority. It is, but when the advances say it, you say no... (President: Please do not address one another. I think we're already talking a lot about this amendment and getting out of hand about who's right now, whether the MPs from the URS, the MPs from the SNS or the MPs from the DS are right. I don't think the problem with women and children's health insurance should be a problem of outwitting or any policy. This is a policy of fighting for life. I don't agree when someone says that health care has to be paid and that anyone who can't pay can't be treated. The DS is struggling to make health insurance available to every Serbian citizen, health care. Otherwise, we've missed a little, insulted, and violated the Constitution. So children and pregnant women have to be protected and there's got to be a way to find the money for it. I'm sure no doctor, whatever the law says, will bring back a pregnant woman or a child from the hospital and say, "I can't examine you because you don't have a certified health book." I've always seen these people, even though they didn't have a certified health book. I appeal not to outsmart who's right now. Here the problems of children and women in this amendment are very correct and there is no need to talk about whether it was in the past or now in this government. We need to find a way to protect the children of farmers, children of small entrepreneurs, women of farmers and women of small businesses in the future or as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7732	Thank you. (Snezana Stojanović Plassic, from the place: Replica! I don't see you having the right to a replica. (Snezana Stojanović Plassic, from the place: Please let me explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7733	How come I don't have the right to a replica when I'm misread? This is Article 104. Please, my colleague said that I said that the right to health care can only be given to those who pay for health care. I understand Serbia's health system. I'm fully aware that it's not... Madam People's MP, please... I was misread, I didn't say that. (President: The other side will always misread you. No, the Rules of Procedure don't allow that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7734	So, you can have a debate about it by tomorrow. We're breaking up the line. (Snezana Stojanović Plassic, from the post: Rules of Procedure! ). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7735	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, by Article 104, I'm being misread. Will you deny me that right by the Rules of Procedure? (President: I won't, please.) I absolutely didn't say, nor do I advocate that the health system should function so... (President: Please, Snow White, you must explain to me what I have hurt the Rules of Procedure. ( ) You have injured the Rules of Procedure because you have not given me the right to a replica under Article 104 where I have been misread. (President: Please, it is my right to assess whether the MP has the right to reply or not. My estimate is you don't have the right to a replica. ) Do you also feel that I said what my colleague said, that I said that people cannot have the right to health care? I will not interpret your thoughts at all. Not my thoughts, but my words should be interpreted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7736	The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7737	Mr. Chairman, I will use the time of the mandated representative of the SVM parliamentary group. For the sake of the public, for the people following this session, I would like to remind everyone that we are currently discussing amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, to discuss the amendment. The debate should be held on the fact that one of the fundamental objectives of this proposal is the extension of the insurance users. One of the basic problems that I mentioned in the debate in principle is that when we, as MPs, get the bill, then in the government's explanation, we also have an assessment of the financial resources needed to implement the law. Unfortunately, it says here that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget. I think that's one of the basic problems. On the other hand, the issue of child insurance, child health insurance, pregnant women, etc. was raised here. I would like to remind the MPs, who may not have been so much aware of the budget debate, that some MP groups who were here to fund Vojvodina, that's where I recognized myself, but I didn't want to use the right to reply, so I waited at least half an hour to get there, were also talking about the full pay for pregnant women who weren't so lucky to have a healthy pregnancy, so they had to maintain their pregnancy. Almost all parliamentary groups have been involved in this debate. That's when we said it wasn't good that this issue was used for politics. One parliamentary group submitted an amendment, regardless of which, the others were involved, and then in the voting day, only the opposition voted in favour of the amendment and MPs from the parliamentary group that gave the amendment. Then we got the same answer from Mr. Minister as we do from the Honored Madam Minister, that it will be a situation from the beginning of 2014 and we are aware of that. Please, let's really get back to the agenda. I also enjoyed, as far as possible, the debate in principle and in the debate in particular, because it was mostly the experts who came forward and we talked about the specific health problems, not to use this for politics. I don't really want to use the Rules of Procedure, but I have a few things to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7738	Elvira Kovac, please, you're still past the subject. You're asking us to go back to the amendment, and you're out of the way. I completely understand, I support you completely, and I will try to get the MPs back to the amendment. You're part of your presentation on the amendments correctly, but I think it's too much now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7739	Dear Chairman, I just want to tell you that you selectively apply the Rules of Procedure and allow certain MPs to talk about how much the previous government led to the bankruptcy of this country, ignoring the fact that they were part of the previous government, ignoring the fact that even the Minister of Health was from their party. On the other hand, what we were talking about the other day, it's like a woman I'm asking you to let me say more, it's an injury to the Parliament's dignity if you speak to the MPs as "ms. " It's a personal trait. No one here deals with whether the MPs are married, divorced, or whatever, but with younger MPs, there is always a question of whether they are ladies or ladies. I really ask you to introduce a Solomonian solution that we call colleagues - fellow Members of the People's Parliament or whatever you want, but not to deal with their personal lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7740	As for my address to the People's Messengers, you are all MPs to me, regardless of the gender, and so I strive to address you. It is true, though, that sometimes I address "ma'am" or "ma'am." If that bothers you, I'll leave that out too. Seems like a compliment to you. It's not? It's easier for me. So I accept that suggestion. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7741	I'll talk about the amendment. What is the practice of our health care, is that all persons without residence, all foreigners passing through our country or with a temporary stay, all persons found in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, are simply undetected in practice that they are deprived of the primary health care required in the event of physical injury or some serious medical illness. It's the same situation with very sensitive population categories, which we're talking about now, with pregnant women and children. If this is already a practice, and if we have this information about the white plague, which is indeed dramatic in our Republic, then all the other reasons that stand in terms of countering the non-admission of this amendment should be eliminated, especially because of the fact that a single dinar has been invested in primary health care or prevention has been repeatedly returned. This is not about any luxurious medical procedures, such as plastic surgery, in terms of beauty, etc., so that the SPI in spirit seems to me, new good practices in this Parliament, that we are all primarily a citizen of an individual in front of our eyes when we talk about all the legal proposals, absolutely supports this amendment and this kind of solution. I think it is easy for the Minister of Health to conclude that this is the general position of the MPs, and the very fact that who he was before and what he was doing and in which he was and who he was responsible for, should not be the subject of the debate and that this very important issue goes to another end. The SPO and DHSS Parliament Club, absolutely aware of the financing allocated to our health care, believes that this amendment can be accepted, it is possible to find funds. When we talked about the budget and the budget rebalances, not only in this government, but also in all previous governments, it is well known that our position is really still quite irrational. We have a 1001 example, on one side of the money disposal, and on the other hand we are saving on what we cannot save on. I can talk a long time, but every single one of the MPs. I say, I don't think it's a topic, and I think any amendment that is meaningful and that will help the population of the Republic of Serbia, which will help heal the nation and fight the white plague should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7742	Thank you. Mr. Zelenovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7743	Thank you. I will return to this amendment just to clarify one thing that is very important, and it concerns the very practice of how this provision is normally applied. So, otherwise, this provision is applied as follows. This amendment did not suggest or motivate people not to pay contributions to be treated for free. On the contrary, if they have introduced a provision that frees employers, i.e. family members, children, from employers who do not pay contributions in a way and allows them to be treated. That's what I asked for both farmers and entrepreneurs. That's the point. So far, in previous years, therefore, this provision is not new, it is old, but in previous years this problem has been overcome by the Minister then or the Director of the Fund deciding to introduce some period of rest or stop the application for children, pregnant women, maternity. However, we now have a situation, or I asked for an amendment, so that it would not be someone's will. So, not to be a minister, not a fund manager, but to be a legal provision so that we don't have a problem with children, pregnant women, and maternity parents not being able to heal themselves for some period of their lives. That's why I asked for a special insurance base. Now I see everyone's ready to do it, and now I'm just expecting what time it's going to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7744	Thank you. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7745	Your Honor, how long has our MP group been left?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7746	There's 37 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7747	Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I support the amendment of counterpart Neboja Zelenovic. It is simply amazing that such a debate is being held in the Assembly and that money cannot be found for such an important, life - giving matter concerning the citizens of our country. I come from eastern Serbia where compared to the previous census, according to the latest census, there are 11.5% fewer people. So it's amazing that there's no money in the budget for these things, and we've heard all sorts of things, there's money for hospital security, there's money for new government cars, there's money for many unnecessary things, and there's not one of these important things for pregnant women to do. Just like my colleague Jerkov, I appeal first to all the MPs he now has most in the National Assembly's assembly to support this amendment because he is primarily useful to the citizens of our Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7748	The word is Mr. Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7749	Your Honor, I'm glad you're back. I want to talk about the proposed amendment by Mr Zelenovic, who talked about the problems of children and maternity, farmers and entrepreneurs. I would just like to add, as part of this amendment, that students are left out here, even though they are children. Children and students are recognised the same status, even with the same view of Article 22, which regulates health insurance for children and students. I was asked by the Student Association of Lawyers to point out this problem, as the Health Insurance Act found that students by the age of 26 are necessarily health insurance as family members through parents. If they do not have parents, they shall be provided in accordance with Article 22. Laws on personal basis, and as students until the 26th year of age on the burden of funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. What's the problem? Students have indicated that the current legal solution provides that in the event that the student's parents do not have an up-to-date contribution to health insurance or otherwise no health insurance, the student also does not have the right to overwrite health books, and thus does not have the right to use health services. The legislator's intention is likely, according to the students, to punish in some way a person who has no paid contributions to health insurance and to force him to do so, but thus also brings students as family members into the same penal position. It is indisputable that the RFO as an organ is responsible for the financial aspect of the functioning of healthcare in the Republic of Serbia, has an interest in ensuring a mandatory contribution regularly and fully reconcile their obligations to the Fund. However, the Fund must not be protected by denying health services to persons who do not have an impact on the behaviour of the obligor, a contribution to this case to students. I as a doctor know how stressful the study period is for students, that it is the period when it comes out of puberty and that these are the years when many diseases can develop, from various endocrinological to immunological and full of transmitted diseases. This problem also occurs in children, but the new Health Certificate Regulations allow children to have certified health books even though the parent does not have measured contributions to health insurance. However, students are either deliberately or not left out, although children and students are recognised the same status, even with the same attitude of Article 22, which regulates children and students's health insurance. Such a legal failure certainly leaves a large number of students in Serbia without health insurance. You know it's a major economic crisis, employers are often unable to reconcile their contributions. You also know of the flag cases in Kragujevac where workers have not had certified health books for years, and therefore students from those families did not have the right to verify health books. There is no real logic and how it is said by law students "racio legis" that students are brought into such a position depending on their parents even though they are legally and commercially capable. As for the financial aspect of the state and the Fund, there would be no additional expenditure. I hope that in this presentation I have managed to present you with problems and I hope that you will help solve these problems because child care is also concerned about these students for whom we can find ways to protect them and cover their health insurance. Your Honor, I thank you for allowing me to expose the students' problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7750	Thank you. National MPs Milos Aligrudic and Sandra Raskovic Ivic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7751	Thank you. That's the amendment that survived this cut on the Legislative Committee, which now allows me to ask some very important questions. So, in your explanation of why you refuse this amendment, you state among other things that this is the first because we knock, as you say – one part of the open door, asking that in the principle provisions of the Insurance Act, the private and state sector is equalized, because you say that the law has already done so. Then in a very broad explanation of why you refuse this amendment, you say that the Fund can conclude with private health institutions a contract, but that it does not do so, but that it only does so in one complementary way when private healthcare institutions provide certain services that cannot be provided in state institutions. Then you explain why there's such a restriction, why the Fund decided to limit it and you say it's because it doesn't have enough resources. Now I'm going to explain very simply to you in these two minutes and plus the six that I have as an authorised representative of the group, why I don't think this argument stands. So this will lead to a direct relationship with the amendment itself and a solution that I will warmly recommend to you that you do this for the next months and make life easier for citizens and healthcare professionals. So it is that there is a formal possibility, but you base every possibility of insurance on only one possible pillar, and that's the Fund. Because you define yourself, you are still fully defined for the Fund to be the only possible source of funding for compulsory, compulsory insurance. It's a fundamental mistake. From that mistake, all other mistakes make sense. In Article 68. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia states well that everyone has the right to protect their mental, physical health and then there are three other positions, one deals with what the public income states must finance, children, pregnant women, mothers during maternity leave, single parents with children by the age of seven, and old people who achieve health care from public incomes, if they do not otherwise achieve it in accordance with the Law. You have a third position that says – health insurance, health care and the establishment of health funds are governed by the Law. So each of these things per person, the way we're going to make sure when we build funds, the kind of funds we make, even the plural used in the Constitution is here. So the Constitution gives the legislator a broad opportunity, i.e. to respond and regulate matter, in a way that will satisfy the need and attitudes, where everyone says they have the right to protect mental and physical health. So, people, you tell me that the Fund that's failed, let's call it the real name failed, when we say it's corrupt, I don't think every healthcare worker and every employee in the fund is corrupt, but I say corrupt in terms of corruption, it doesn't exist, it doesn't work right. Therefore, this Fund simply cannot carry out this task, to preserve this provision of Constitution 68, which requires the state to act in the protection of the population. He can't take it. You, in an explanation of why you refuse the amendment, which I suggest is the root of the system change, you say you won't accept because you don't have the money or because it's pleonasm. What we asked in our amendment to effectively bring the private and state sector into line, you say it's pleonasm, it's from the spirit of the law, but the law gives it the right or the possibility to the Fund not to simply conclude those contracts with private institutions. After all, private institutions do not see the benefit of closing a contract with the Fund, if they know they will never receive money for the service they have provided to the citizens. It's a veggie bike. We suggest a completely different solution to get out of that wagon. I know you can't do it today. Don't think we're naive. I know that even technically you won't be able to accept this amendment easily today, and I know that, but some time he has to write to start the thing. If you think like us, in five or six months, you will come out alone with a comprehensive bill in the field of health care, and you will solve this problem, which is suggested in this amendment. Then I hope you get rid of it the next way. You'll get rid of it by accepting that private practice is needed as a necessary pillar of protection along with state health care. You have to understand that it is necessary to introduce competition to a mandatory and supplementary health insurance entity. You say here, in addition, we'll stimulate the supplemental. It's okay, it's not a dispute, but what if you have an obligation under the Constitution, and it doesn't work in the state, so come on, find some alternative methods. We suggested alternative methods. And you know it, we may not have had to suggest it to you, but in order for this to happen, it takes a lot of effort, you need to break the resistances that exist. I heard today that I have no right, it doesn't matter, I'm talking about health care, I'm not a doctor, but I'm a health care user, like other citizens. I want to tell you that we have to solve, make a system so that it's just enough to rebuild itself, and if the Fund can't, we with this Fund, so to speak, by quotes, I mean the Fund, we've been at war for 30 years. If the Fund can't satisfy it, then who can? Patients should be protected. Why? If we're equating forms of insurance, then we need to countermeasure the form of patient protection, precisely for those reasons. Then it should also be guaranteed by the state budget, as is now guaranteed by the Constitution, but it should be guaranteed for the implementation of the education system in the area of health care. In order to maintain institutions, investment maintenance needs to provide funds for the functioning of health institutions, from the cost of public health services to state institutions, through a sustainable system of mandatory and supplementary insurance. On this basis, as I said, it is necessary to create a system that will be flexible and where the shortage of drugs will not be possible unless there are rare diseases, but then the state comes into fact from the budget, because it will become part of the interest in the insurance system. All this stuff that you've intervened, cosmetically, this is what I'm ending, to put out the fire that currently exists, it's all falling like a sinister wall in front of us and the thing is moving to solve itself. It just takes a little courage for these people to get rid of the pain, to wait on prescription lines, for instructions, to be able to choose their private physician normally, to take their prescription and go to a private pharmacy, to pick up a private doctor in general practice, to be their chosen doctor for the health book they own, to be free of the pressure not to pay in the afternoon or in the evening in an ultra sound health facility, because otherwise, they will be scheduled not to go to a doctor for therapeutic protection, at a private clinic that sent them out of the same clinic in the afternoon, so they don't wait for any service that will be done to them. Please, here was the idea of this amendment to encourage you to do something and please do it, you have your mandate, you have an opportunity to do something, you have an idea that's being said here, you have no constitutional obstacle, you have no logical obstacle other than goodwill and the ability to stand up to one corrupt chain.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7752	National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7753	Mr. President, Madam Minister, you have provided in this Article 3 that the Republic Fund is to adopt a general act laying down the conditions, criteria, procedure, way of putting medications on the list of medicines. The law provides for a central medical commission and will function within the framework of the fund. Our idea is quite the opposite of what you've suggested, because we don't think it's a good solution that the fund that has the resources to get the drugs, decide which drugs will be on that list. This is why we have proposed, in our amendment, that the Government, on a proposal from your ministry, determines a list of medicines, just to prevent this chain of corruption, this ringishipil, in which we have been spinning for years and there are always shortages, debts that have not been settled, and all this reflects on the inability of citizens to receive adequate health care. We don't have enough time, but we could give examples for hours that are completely illogical, and they work in the current health system. If one drug "Diclofenac duo" costing 289 dinars, and it is participated with 85%, it is paid 260 dinars in the pharmacy. So we've made it possible for citizens to save 29 dinars, and on the other hand, we want to be solid, human, and diabetics and cancer patients are paying for 50 dinars, and I'm not talking about how many drugs are on the market and how many are gone. Just one example, you know the doctor has a restriction, for the medicine Berodual can prescribe a prescription on two boxes of medication, and if it's a more severe form of asthma and if it needs a third box, the patient has to pay for that drug 800 dinars because the doctor can't prescribe the third box of medicine, because it's limited. What happens in practice? There's no "Aminophiline retard" on the market, you know who the manufacturer is, he's not on the market, he can't use it, he's gonna buy that 800 dinar Berodual again. The replacement for "Aminophiline Retard" is "Durophiline" and it produces "Actavis" from Leskovec, but cannot produce them enough to achieve the needs of patients in Serbia. Let's not talk about how some drugs that are produced in factories that don't work anymore, I'm talking about the Trental, its price of 195 dinars, can be found on the black market in some pharmacies, not the state, for 400 dinars. It may not be a question for you, but for Mr. Vukic, and I believe he will deal with it in some future period. It's a very simple proposal, let me separate the fund, the funds they have and the way they get it, and the list of medicines to prescribe the Ministry of Health, and then it won't happen that the same people who decide on the funds, the money, they're making a list, and you know how they come to each of them, because every producer's interest is to have his medicine on the list of medicines, so that its application is extended through the pharmacy network in Serbia. Let's stop it, this is a few specific examples just that we can avoid if this amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7754	National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7755	Thank you. Madam Minister, you've detected some of the problems with these laws. One problem is centralised procurement and the possibility of reducing costs for the economy, all the restrictions and the dangers we talked about, the other is a positive list of medicines. From year to year, drug costs are increasing. There are a few reasons why that is. One reason is that the life span and the population of Serbia are being extended, so of course the cost of treatment is increasing and increasing. The other thing is that increasingly expensive and expensive drugs appear, and the third thing is that the list expands year after year. Last year alone, I think it's almost 300 drugs. It all affects the price of medicine. Our solutions may be unusual, as you say in the explanation, but when there's a problem, then you solve it, sometimes by unusual methods, so when the situation is resolved, then you can introduce some other things. What did we suggest? It was completely illogical for us to have the ministry conduct public procurement and the Fund make a list of medicines. If a list of drugs is a problem, and it is, then it's logical not to have a Fund. It is logical that the Fund conducts public procurement, and let the list of medicines be created by the ministry, to establish the ministry. The second thing, the Central Commission will have very high powers and a very great burden will be on these people. We have suggested that it be done differently, that three candidates, three members of that commission, propose the ministry, that three members propose the Fund, and that five propose medical colleges. These are the most professional people Serbia has in the area, let them give five candidates. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is electing assistant civil defenders. He's giving consent to various statutes, funds. It is no burden for the National Assembly to elect a central commission in this session until the problem is resolved. Let's raise the meaning of that body and let's give it meaning to these people, so when we solve the problem, then we'll sort it out in some other way, when all this is being stalked, it was our idea. It seems to us that this would significantly help solve the problem, this is how the problem is going to stay, here, you'll see. The Commission is operating in the Fund, the Fund is calling for a tender, and we will see how many drugs will be on that positive list at the end of next year, what their price will be. Not by accepting solutions like this, the problem will not be solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7756	Thank you. National MP Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7757	Thank you. Dear Minister, dear fellow Members, I'm not in this matter, so I don't know if I have the right to discuss any discussions today, but I've talked to some doctors anyway, so we've come up with a possible proposal, which could possibly be incorporated into this health insurance bill. Namely, we have submitted an amendment to replace in Article 4, in the proposed Article 43v, the 180-day number of days it takes to place or remove a medicinal product from the list, with a number of 90, and refers to the original drugs, means medicines with a protected international name. Compared to medicines that exist, which are generically unprotected names, they are generally cheaper in sales and are mostly on these lists of medicines prescribed by the Health Insurance Fund. We think, simply, that the deadline left here for putting or removing this drug off the list should possibly be even, if you haven't already accepted that this 180-day deadline has been reduced, because surely it would be much more meaningful, better and cheaper, better for patients, and probably for the Republic Health Insurance Institute, that one better quality medicine that we're going to examine, which we're going to put on the drug list, we're treating patients who are suffering from certain diseases, not possibly three, four or five times, doctors prescribe these other medicines that are on this list of the Fund. So, we've been asking that these 180 days be reduced to 90, or possibly, if you can't accept that, that deadline just gets even. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7758	Thank you. National MP Mirjana Dragas submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 4th amendment with the correction, the MPs Mileta Poscurica, Milan Knezevic, Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic, Ninoslav Girić, Branislav Blažić, Predrag Mijatović and Aleksandar Radojevic together submitted together. The government and the resolution approved the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with a correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Milica Radovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7759	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Radovic and I, in this amendment, actually intervened on Article 4, which relates to the education of the Central Committee for Medicinal Products, and we intervened on several things. In the first position, in point 3, we insisted that criteria be introduced, and this is known criteria in selecting members of the Central Committee for Medicinal Products. In law, you say that the minister, director of the Fund and community of medical colleges, will propose respected members, but we do not know by which criteria this will happen. Just say "honorable" is very complicated for us, because it's a criterion that we can't all follow. We believe that criteria must be public, known, published in some document, some sublegal act, and only on that basis can members of the Central Committee be chosen for medicines. This, of course, will make it very much easier for you too, because you here in response say you cannot accept it, because apparently you as a minister, then Director of the Republic Fund, as well as the community of medical colleges, will make sure that prominent medical experts are offered. You know, I'm just not sure that unique criteria can be introduced in this way, you'll be careful. What does that mean? Give known criteria, based on these criteria, it'll be much simpler for you. If this first part of our amendment is accepted, then of course in Article 43b, Section 4, deletes, unnecessary. What else do we want to point to? In Article 43b, after Article 5, we added a new position 6, which says -- the Central Committee for Medicinal Products, twice a year, submits a report to the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, responsible for the area of health. The Committee shall inform the President of the Assembly and the MPs of the same Assembly of the report. Why are we doing this? We want, first of all, the public, we want, first of all, control. For your very clear reasons, I think that here in this room today there is no one to whom these reasons are not clear, because only one control that implies everything that is done in this commission and in the Fund, we can do something to save money, to find ourselves for some other things, that we have all really had here today to expose. So some of us, of course, weren't very ready to vote to forgive those who didn't pay their contributions, but we expected the Fund to work. What else did we want to accomplish? In Article 43b, the existing position 6, we have crossed it into paragraph 7, we have changed it and it is said – the amount of the fee of the item 4 of this article, is determined at the level of two average personal incomes. Of course, we allude to what the law says, the members of the Central Committee on Medicinal Products, receive compensation for their work, and of course we don't run away from it, because it's something that is regular, people do, they should get compensation, but in times of poverty, we think it's really unacceptable to leave it to the board of directors to decide for themselves. Why do I say that? Here's an example of the last one I've read in the media, the Institute of War and Vourage, the board of directors has determined that the director has a million dinar salary a month. I think it is covered by the board's decision, but it really doesn't make sense. If the crisis and the health insurance and health care rights are really minimally applied and citizens have a problem getting the protection that belongs to them under the Constitution, then the board of directors should really not allow him to do it himself, because we think it can easily come out of some context. We proposed two average personal incomes. We think that's a lot. In times of crisis, we all have to tighten the belt, not just citizens. I really think you're wrong if you don't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7760	Thank you. The government has submitted an amendment adding a new Article 5a after Article 5. The Health and Family Committee has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7761	Thank you, Mr. President. This Article provides that the Republic Fund shall make payments in the procedure of centralised public procurement in accordance with the Law governing health care. We suggested that this be deleted because this country has a law on public procurement. We think it should be applied in this area as well. We do not understand how these central procurements will work today, how distribution will take place, especially 200 municipalities in Serbia. Within each municipality and city you have dozens of pharmacies. How will the citizens of Serbia at any time buy a drug at the pharmacy if the system is how you predicted it to work? We're sure it won't work, regardless of your good will and your intention to carry out some savings, that maybe you think it'll be more effective. That's not how it turned out in the field. We've had a series of conversations with people who've been doing this work for years. Their wish is that everything works perfectly normal. Regardless of some funds for the amount of money used for this, it is physically impossible to implement all of this and do it. What I want to ask you at the end of this debate, since this is the last amendment that I have signed, is a question that I transfer from people who deal with this business and who are pharmacists, working in pharmacies throughout Serbia -- you know that the drug margin at this point is 12%, regardless of whether the drug is a hundred dinars or ten or 50 or 100,000 dinars, is it true that the Ministry of Health, and the Government will adopt it, through the Regulation or in some way implement that the price of cost of a certain drug is paid by the prescription of 63 dinars to pharmacies, i.e. pharmacies, regardless of the quantity, on the number of prescription drugs? This at first reduces the proceeds of the pharmacy by 30%. They asked me to hear it from you. I think you're invited and competent to give us an answer, not because of us, but because of hundreds and thousands of people who do this job, who are at the service of their fellow citizens every day, to give them what they came to the pharmacy for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7762	The word is Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7763	Because of the ability for pharmacists to be motivated to order and to have more expensive medicines, because the margin for the drug is 12%, and that's always more money than when the medicine is cheap, we were thinking about the price of the service. Whether the pharmacist will give the patient a medicine that costs 1,000 euros or 150 dinars, he is doing the same service, giving the medicine box. It shouldn't be the price of a drug that bothers him to make the supply of more expensive drugs better. We think it's good and we're thinking about doing favors, not margins. In this set of laws it's not covered. Since this is one of the last amendments, allow me, so that I no longer report, to express my gratitude for an extremely correct debate, for the extremely good suggestions that need to wait for their time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7764	National MP Miroslav Petkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7765	Thank you. After all, you spent the whole day with us here today, and we got some answers to some questions, and we got some promises you made here that you'd keep. We wish you success because of people who use health services in the health care system of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you once again, we've told you, we've been waiting for you for a few months, to see if it will be fulfilled. Maybe we didn't understand each other. That's not what this is about. The pharmacist can't issue any medication unless the doctor prescribed a prescription for the drug. I wouldn't want anyone to interpret that now someone who works at the pharmacy that if they have a cure for 100 dinars, they want to sell to a patient a drug that costs a thousand or 10,000 dinars. So, no one's getting confused, they're doing their job honestly and honestly. You have limited the doctors, not you, but the previous government, or laws and regulations that have been passed. You've limited doctors to how to do their job. It is not our interest for citizens to drink, use and use bad medications, but to give them the best possible protection with the best control, the greatest savings and the rational spending of funds from the budget, for which we all separate, whether we work in the Assembly and how much our incomes are and how much our contributions are or whether they are farmers or anyone. Thank you for this information, it will benefit them, too, but I think one public, transparency in this whole process is good to prevent things from happening in advance. Today you have had the opportunity to hear that we have submitted a series of amendments agreeing with the parliamentary groups both from the opposition and from the authorities. You didn't accept any. I can't thank you for that, but I can promise you that we will keep an eye on what you will do next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7766	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7767	The Honorable President, a respected minister, provoked by good and bad antibiotics, more expensive or cheaper antibiotics, I would like to draw attention to the irregularities in the health system precisely on this subject. There's no good or bad, there's no better or worse antibiotic, there's an antibiotic that the bacteria react to or don't react to. Many of our doctors are models of pharmaceutical houses. Many of our doctors force certain antibiotics just because they have a percentage of the sale of these drugs. It goes to that point that you have pharmaceutical homes that share their kits with doctors who collect pharmacists in private pharmacies and then they take a margin on these medicines. As a professor of medical school, I don't agree that there's expensive medicine and cheap medicine, there's only good or bad medicine. So we need to put in place control of prescription drugs, that in this Central Register, which you're trying to introduce, you need to see which of the doctors you're going to treat, and you're going to see abuse at that level. What is more abuse, as a doctor, I'm interested in whether someone will take the euro on some medication, I'm interested in the fact that children are given strong antibiotics when they need to, and that when children come into some serious situation that their lives are in danger, some antibiotic that they need at the moment will not react because they bombed him from birth doctors only to force a particular drug, so this message to the health ministry is to make sure what doctors prescribe in health homes, in clinical centres, in city hospitals, because I'm a witness at many clinics where they are in relation to pharmaceuticals where they have a commission just to prescribe certain medicines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7768	A group of 54 MPs of the SNS parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7769	I'm sorry the Minister left. I think it's important that she hears what I have to say. This amendment is due to our amendment to Article 3. We remain in that serious problem will be in the functioning of the Central Commission and a serious problem will be with the creation of a positive list of medicines. This is a very interesting solution that the Minister pointed out to us. Formally observed, that's true. The same cost or the same amount of work is done if one pack of 100 dinars is sold and the same box costs 10,000 dinars is sold. I don't mind doing it in the healthcare system, but it's going to make a full revolution in the banking system, because it's the exact same procedure in banking and in many other things, but well, it's the Ministry thing. This is one of our last amendments. We have serious reservations that these proposed solutions will produce results. We suspect he'll solve any serious health problem. When it comes to delays, they will certainly continue to grow for the reasons we talked about today. Health has proved to be one of the things that is particularly interested in the MPs. What's interesting is that we'll all agree that there are good and bad engineers, there are good and bad lawyers, but we all hope that there are only good doctors and there are no health problems. Unfortunately, today's debate has shown that this is far from true. She has shown that there is no willingness at this time to solve problems systematically and has shown that only a fire will be put out until a new fire. The thing is, in Serbia, there is less and less time and all the mass of resources to put out the fire. When resources are exhausted, that moment is very close, then most of today's debates will be completely different. Some other problems will be much more important and greater.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7770	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7771	Please tolerate me for 30 seconds, because I won't answer the last amendment. This concludes the debate, and I will not answer the amendment Mr. Petkovic and I have submitted. Let me finish. Unfortunately, time goes by, problems don't solve, and I'm afraid that when the problems start to solve the verse, then they'll solve the verse.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7772	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7773	Given that we are at the end of the debate, I would like to state on behalf of the DS that today's and last week's discussion on amendments to the Health Insurance and Health Protection Act has made it clear, and we have repeatedly repeated this in the debate, that the existing laws are very outdated and that they no longer maintain the current health situation in Serbia. It is necessary, not only to make up these laws, these are roof laws, these are pillars of health care, health system, health care and health insurance, and we need to seriously consider these laws, to make new laws, because this law, both of them very old. I also want to say that they are conservative and that they absolutely do not respect the current situation in the health care system. Our private health care is completely marginalized, not in the same status as state health. A system of military hospitals must be involved in this health care system and much more needs to be taken into account about the rights of patients, the rights of doctors and nurses.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7774	Mr. Milisavljevic, please subject me to amendment of Article 7. You don't have to finish the word. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Milica Radovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7775	Same story again. I won't be long, because I've already spoken. I'm talking about how much it takes to be a commission member. We disagree that only citizens should bear the burden of the crisis and people working in such expert commissions should bear the burden of the crisis in part. Again, we limit it to two average personal incomes, which is not a little bit to work with. We think you should accept our amendment. I'm sorry he doesn't have a minister to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7776	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 54 MPs of the SNS Group submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 54 MPs of the SNS Group submitted an amendment adding a new Article 7a after Article 7. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7777	Thank you, Madam Vice President. We're going back to that story we mentioned earlier a few weeks ago. What can all be the subject of an amendment when we have amendments and amendments to the law on the agenda, if someone like the DSS refuses such amendments, in the Government accepts, why if we now recognize that the Government has a different treatment than the MPs, which is unacceptable. Let the Committee on the Constitution and legislation interpret it, why can some parliamentary groups do something that other parliamentary groups cannot do? I have no intention of being a lawyer for the DSS parliamentary group. Everyone knows the difference between our parties and our MP groups, but I would ask that you convey a message to the president of the National Assembly that some parliamentary groups cannot be more equal than other parliamentary groups, nor can the Government of the Republic of Serbia be more equal than MPs. If we're all equal, then we're all equal, and if we're not, then let's say why we're not and in what sense are we not equal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-13-0.u7778	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government has submitted an amendment adding a new Article 8a after Article 8. The Health and Family Committee has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 54 MPs of the SNS group submitted an amendment to follow Article 8a. adds a new Article 8b. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'll continue working Saturday at 0900 hours.
