ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4678	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 124 MPs attend the session. Before we continue to work, I remind you that two proposals for the agenda have arrived in the meantime for emergency proceedings during the session and in accordance with Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so it is necessary to make known these suggestions. According to that member of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly on these proposals may decide on the condition that the sittings are attended by most of the total number of MPs. For these reasons, please determine the quorum for the decision. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 131 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and there are conditions for deciding. Member of the SNS Group, pursuant to Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2012, point - a proposal on amendments to the decision on the election of members and the deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – four of the 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. President of the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, by emergency procedure, the agenda of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2012, point – the Proposal for a DECISION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTARY INSTITUTIONS, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 9 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – six of the total 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going back to work. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs, MPs have the right to request information and explanations on the basis of Rule 287 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Rule 287 of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Siniša Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4679	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, Mr. President, a while ago I asked two questions that, unfortunately, within the scheduled time limit, I did not get an answer. I would like to remind you in the shortest possible light that these were issues related to one extremely unpleasant situation, which was observed in the work of the Ministry of Culture, that there was a certain number of scholarship films that received significant donations from the Ministry of Culture, which never began, or were eventually never completed, so they never went public. I asked the question – what are the means? I asked the question - who are the producers and what are the movies? So I didn't get an answer to that question. Most kindly, I'm asking the Resort Ministry to give me an answer to that question. It seems to me that this question is very important, not just for one narrow circle of people dealing with it, but simply, it is the paradigm of a shifted system of values in which we have all deeply trampled and on this principle of these small shifts, from this paradigm model, from small to large, from individual to general, we can come up with something that represents some essential truth. The second question was about function and work, I hate to say, public service, I would rather say national television, which is in one deep crisis, both the crisis of management and conceptually, if you want both political and moral, and I think that, in addition to being badly guided, there is absolutely no programme, except for the few blondes who are being replaced by it, the management of that house has not been told that certain political changes have occurred in Serbia. In that sense, I also asked the question, since it cramps in one flagrant penny and the public secret, which is irrevocably accurate, as well as all the charming stories in Serbia, is that national television, or, uglyly speaking, public service, has a huge marketing and financial capital of a few million seconds, which, behold, is sold to certain companies in unreserved terms, deprived of such a huge profit. My question was, what companies are these? Is it true that these are Mr. Gilas and Mr. Shaper's companies? What is the projected loss of television, i.e. the projected profits of the company concerned, as well as – are there any elements of criminal acts in such contracts? I didn't get an answer for those questions. I most kindly ask the Minister of Culture, respecting all the problems he faces and respecting the fact that he is faced with a bunch of obligations, to find time to answer such an important question. You know, dear friends, in a system of values like this, national television is a pillar and a bearer of a nation's culture. If such a house does not have the opportunity to stand up to this horseback of the Indian Bride, Sulayman the Great, and so on, I'm afraid we will be faced with one bitter defeat, whose consequences, unfortunately, I'm afraid we are not aware. This introduction and reminder, a small reminiscing of earlier questions, serves to ask another question to the same ministry, the Ministry of Information and Culture. In fact, yesterday we learned that Milorad Miskovic withdrew from ownership in written media, i.e., in particular, retired from "Pres", generously giving in to his capital stake in journalists of the same house. It is very good for democracy in Serbia, it is very good for these journalists, as their social map will significantly be corrected and corrected. However, the problem is of a different nature. It occurs, if you remind yourself that just a few weeks ago the same gentleman claimed that he had no participation in that newspaper, as well as on participation in that newspaper, or ownership, participation in that newspaper. So keep your mouth shut and Mayor Gilas. I ask the question - if you concentrate that position of power in the hands of a man, and that is political power, which will tomorrow be evident in the fact that you will, God forbid, be party president and have huge financial capital and control of the media. So what are the tail systems that are brakes to abuse such a terrible position of power? Marshall Maklon, a great media theorist, says - public opinion is, if you use the media correctly, about as a dough in the hands of a skilled baker, so willingly, if you want a barrel, you want a pretzel, you want a muffin, so anything is possible. (President: Time, Mr Kovacevic. ) In this sense, I am asking the question – since in Serbia it is obvious that the focus of that power is on the work, and do not let me remind you of how much the concentration of that power is devastating. Mr Kovacevic, just to warn you on time. You've been over it for 30 seconds. ( b) Dear President, I'm sorry about that. If I had been answered by the last two questions I asked a month ago, I wouldn't have the need to overstep time, so I'm done with the apology. So, the question is: who are the real media owners in Serbia, and it is not too extensive since public opinion in Serbia is interested in eight daily newspapers, three weeks and six televisions? Who are the Paravanic and who are the real media owners? (President: Mr Kovacevic, I must interrupt you. You've been out of time for a minute. Thank you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4680	Mr. Alexander Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4681	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask a question about the current subject of listening. The topic has been current for the SPO for more than 20 years. SPO leader and SPO members, their phones have been tapped for more than 20 years, and we know how many assassinations have been attempted on SPO President Vuk Draskovic. When we talked about it after 2000, after 5 October and when we talked about and before the parties that are now in power, DOS members didn't take it seriously, even mocked us, and now we come to a situation where we can conclude that no one is safe anymore, that no one is safe anymore. If the president of Serbia and the Deputy Prime Minister are listening, their phones are listening, how can MPs feel in this parliament, how can an ordinary citizen feel, for sure or not? Of course it's insecure. The explanation that the MUP did not know that they were listening to the phones of the president of Serbia and the vice-president of the government seemed really funny. We want to know, who listens, listens, who gives orders, how many people listen, who listens without right? When someone and you saw this in the case of Vuk Draskovic's house, you set up listening devices, then I wonder, by whose order and how many such houses are in Serbia and how many politicians are listening? They had a one-year warrant to do so, however, each year the SPO president has been heard for more than two decades, and then tried to make assassinations on him. Why is it that a criminal offense has not been sanctioned by an unauthorized collection of personal data? Why isn't there any court ruling? I would also like some clarifications regarding the view of Serbia's history, everything that preceded it, all those events that tell us that in the First World War we were one of the greatest European forces, and today politicians in Serbia are trying to present it as one wrong struggle. I want clarifications on the Serbian prime minister's statement that the then Yugoslavia and the foundations of then-Yugoslavia, which were set up in the First World War from 1914 to 1918, were wrong and that they were the cause of international suffering later, in the 1990s. It's all Communism's fault. It is solely the fault of the establishment that remained after Tito, Izetbegovic, Tudjman and former Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic. It cannot be the king or Pasic or Stepa Stepanović or Zivojin Misic. They created Yugoslavia, and those who in the 1990s took the lead in the former Yugoslav republics, communism, did everything to tear it apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4682	MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4683	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, obviously we will be a little more concerned with the parliamentary issues of the media today, and the media is one of the most important resources we have and we must not in any way ignore their influence and their power to shape public opinion, so they are always current, attractive and therefore the media itself is fighting for their survival. My question is about that. First of all, I address the Ministry of Culture and Information, which is required to implement the Radio Diffusion Act. I ask, after meeting with the owners of small radio houses, radio broadcasters, is there any consideration of the changes and additions of this law, above all, to members relating to the fee they pay, which they pay to three addresses for the broadcast of the music programme, SOKOJ, the right performer and OFFS? It totals over 10% of their total income and earnings. In changes and additions, the ministry could be managed by an excellent example, such as Germany, in which it is paid at 3.5% and only one address of the company under the state's patronage. What the broadcasters still want to know is – how long has it been since the funds have been put in place, how these funds are distributed, how do performers pay off, and have they really been adequately paid according to how much they have been heard and how they have been broadcast and how many broadcasters provide reports about it? What they are interested in is – is it true that foreign broadcasters do not pay this fee because in this way when you look at how they make radio-house revenues in Serbia, it is not the same to earn 100,000 in Belgrade and one Somboro, Apatina or Babušniki where small radio houses, where the small economy that pays its advertising and support those people who are employed, pay their personal incomes and all other taxes? Since we have found ourselves in a serious economic crisis, we expect an understanding of the ministry. Given the importance of this programme and the impact of this programme primarily on the citizens of Serbia, we expect one understanding and assistance in overcoming this difficulty. They asked several times for these members of the law to change, to respect their interest, to help them survive too. In this way, some in Serbia may be deliberately or unintentionally shutting down by the media or allowing for their privatisation, which is currently possible for only some foreigner to buy. In Serbia's interest, it is certain that the more media, and that should be some of our common interest, remains in our hands. That's what we have to keep. I expect an answer from the competent ministry and from these three addresses to which they pay the fees – how they spend the funds they pay, is that transparent, is it possible for this parliament to get it as a report and whether control is being established in the way that the law provides?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4684	National MP Ranka Savik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4685	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, in this past few months we have witnessed the arrest of a number of company owners who are also directors of these companies. With the arrests of company owners in a difficult situation, they are rapidly collapsing, so the position of workers has been drastically deteriorated. During last week, I was visiting a low brewery and completely sudden and without a wish I was just the day that Mr. Stefanovic was arrested called "Nini". In addition to the first enthusiasm for the justice that is slow, workers of the Niška brewery have asked the question afterwards – what will be further with them, especially because the low brewery is already in a difficult situation? Namely, the workers of the Low Beers have not received their salary for five and a half months, they are not paid contributions, so neither they nor their family members, their children, can use health services. Unfortunately, this isn't just the case with the Low Beer. In Serbia, there are many examples of this after the arrest of the owners, i.e. the director of the company, to the sudden collapse of these companies. For this reason, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Resort and Competent Ministry – how and what measures do the Government and the Resort Ministry think that they solve the problem of workers and businesses whose owners, as well as directors, are arrested for economic crime, placed tenders and fraud in privatisation? I also ask the question – will Serbian workers who have implemented privatisations be responsible for such a situation, decide who and under what conditions will buy individual businesses? It may seem illogical at first sight why I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia for an answer. But it's completely logical. It is precisely because of the government's great responsibility for the privatisations carried out, but also because of the fact that many of these companies are owned by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia. So, for example. In the low brewery, the state has 25% ownership of the low brewery, and that it has the interest not to collapse, both the low brewery and other businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4686	Thank you. Are any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Mr. Shayin, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4687	Dear ladies and gentlemen, before I ask the parliamentary question again, I would just like to say that 12.10, a month ago, I asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia a question – is there also no tender for the use of 22 million and 500,000 dinars, which are set by budget rebalance for the Roma integration process, i.e. for the decade of the Roma? To this day, the answer to that question has not been answered. Today I ask this same question with an additional element – will the Government of the Republic of Serbia examine the responsibility of the Director of the Office for Human and Minority Rights for irresponsible behaviour, because it has done serious damage to the Republic of Serbia by losing several million euros in Serbia because of its failure to do so? I'll explain now what's going on. Despite the goodwill of the finance minister, despite the goodwill of the parliamentary majority of the Republic of Serbia and despite the goodwill of certain ministries, to accept that certain projects will be developed for them in the regional IPA, in other international funds that exist, in other donor funds that exist, which are not international character, Mr Dusan Ignatovic, instead of calling for a tender, instead of respecting what is required of him, which you, the president, have received a letter 12.10, where in an unequivocal way he is asked to call a tender, instead of using lies, claiming that someone is putting pressure on him to make funds to some NGO, which is not exactly what you, president, too, can confirm, because you received a letter from 12.10 in which he is clearly asking him to call a tender or otherwise provided funds. So, if there was this document a month ago, if in writing that document you got, got it to the prime minister, got it to the finance minister, got it to the first vice president of the government, then you can't afford to have one of the directors of any service in this way behave in public and your reluctantness shifts it in such a way that someone has put pressure on you. How does Serbia lose funds? He says he bought the radiators from a process run by the OSCE. Yes, it is true, and these are the funds from the SID project, from the IPA project provided to Serbia. However, he did not take steps to allow Serbia from other funds to apply for certain funds. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, it costs the Republic of Serbia no less than at this point over three million euros in donations in 2013. Lies that say that he did something by buying radiators for populated people living in containers, in fact, is not the answer to that question. The resources that exist are being used, and it is not working to provide new funds. Further damage done to Serbia, the project envisions two other components besides the formation of new projects. One component is to form a database that will be owned by the state, not owned by any NGO, but owned by Serbia, where we will clearly see what purposes have been spent in the past and today the funds for the Roma integration process, and then not to mention the flat-rates, that someone has spent millions of euros, and that we don't really know where it is. The next component, which is very important, may be the problem of creating new centres of power, so it does not suit them that people, citizens, that members of the Roma National Community are engaged in the integration of Roma, that is, the formation of a young leader academy, where young people will take responsibility, and where they will stop with individuals who apparently believe that in this government too, they can do what they have done for years, abuse the position of those poorest. I ask you, President, that by your authority, you provide me with the authority of this high house as soon as possible, because by respecting the Rules of Procedure, I should have gotten it within 30 days. Within 30 days, I didn't get an official answer to that question. Instead of answering that question, I got the charges in the media for which I'm going to file a criminal report and in this way... (President: Time, Mr. Shayin. )......................................................................................................... Let's put a stop to the ride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4688	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dragomir Karic, Gojko Radic and Stefana Miladanovic. Since we have extended the agenda of the session to two new points, we continue to work on the agenda and move on to a single search on item 4 of the agenda – THE PROPOSING OF THE DECISION ON THE MEETING OF MEETING MEMBER STATES AND THE PRESIDENT OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA, which was tabled by the Serbian Progressive Party. You have received a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia committee, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I remind you that the time for debate in the parliamentary groups has been delivered in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Veroljub Arsic, president of the parliamentary group want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. The fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the International Parliamentary Institutions, has been adopted by the President of the National Assembly. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups for five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I remind you that you received all the time from the parliamentary groups in the material. I'm asking MPs if they haven't already done it. To report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3, but with Article 157(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Since Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic does not want a word, do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Given that the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, I ask before the conclusion of a single search whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 98(4), I am concluding my Rules of Procedure a single debate on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Tuesday, 13 November 2012, starting at 10.50pm, as the Day for the vote on the agenda points of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Before we move to the vote on agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 134 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision on agenda points. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision to elect the Governor of the National Bank After the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 point 14. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the election of the Council of Governors of the National Bank of Serbia. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 11 of the 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all the MPs, has made a decision to elect a Council of Governors of the National Bank of Serbia. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the members of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors in the election and wish them a lot of success in their work. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE CHOICE OF THE GOVERNMENT DIRECTOR FOR CONTROL Over THE FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS Since the National Assembly carried out a single search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the selection of the Director of the Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted – 11, of the total 142 MPs. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. Allow me, on your behalf and on your behalf, to congratulate Djorđa Jevtic on his election and wish him much success in his work. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of Members and the deputy members of the Committee of the People's Community of the Republic of Serbia since the National Assembly carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, also performs other electoral powers. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – no one with abstention – has voted – four, of the 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all the MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Single Serbia parliamentary group. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS ON THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND PRESIDENTS OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, holds an electoral power over most of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – there is no one with abstention – one of the 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all the MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE TERMINATION OF THE TERMINATION OF TERMINAL PARTIES OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, under Article 105 point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – three abstentions – there is no, there is no – three, of the 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, following an explanation by the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known on the day of the vote. We're going to make a decision accordingly. National MP Vučeta Toskovic, at a session on 8 November 2012, pointed to the violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted – 140, out of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. (The session ends at 10:55 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4689	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE COURT OF STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT The sixth session of the Second Regular Session (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 13 November 2012 (The session began at 10.45 p.m.). The session is chaired by Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4690	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. On the basis of official records, 126 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Rule 88(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dragomir Karic, Gojko Radic and Stefana Miladanovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for the sittings of Minister Verica Kalanovic and Vlajko Senic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry to attend, in addition to the representatives of Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and a proposal for a merger of discussions. National MP Maja Gojkovic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft Law on Change and Completion of the Law on Economic Chambers, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 124, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposed Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on the avoidance of a double taxation in relation to income tax and property, which was lodged by the National Assembly on 9 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 135, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal to adopt an annual plan for the use of military Serbia and other defence forces in the multi-national operations in 2012. THE year, which submitted to the National Assembly on 9 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 137 out of the 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, a proposal for a decision on the participation of military Serb troops in multi-national operations in 2012 should be put on the agenda. THE year, which submitted to the National Assembly on 9 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 136, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Stefan Miladanovic, under Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 170, 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint single search be carried out, as one item of the agenda on: a draft law on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on legal aid in civil and criminal matters; a proposal for a law attesting the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters; a bill confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on extradition; a proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters. These are points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the proposed agenda, therefore, as one point. The second item of the agenda is points 6 and 7 of the proposed agenda. As the third item of the agenda, points 8, 9, 10 and 11 of the proposed agenda. I ask the question, is the National MP Stefana Miladanovic... He's not here. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one with abstention – voted 13 out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and the motion to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to declare their agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, no one, with abstentions, voted 14 out of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Act; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on legal aid in civil and criminal matters; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on extradition; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Palestine on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria on mutual incentive and investment protection; 8. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic; 9. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Zajecar; 10. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the National Higher Education Council; 11. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Decision on the Education and Labour of the Professional Service of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality and the Internal Organisation and Systematization of Jobs in the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. I ask the National Assembly services, before we move to the agenda, to inform Minister Verica Kalanovic to come to the National Assembly Hall, as the National Assembly will not begin the debate on the proposed agenda until the minister is present in the hall. Until that happens, I will only read to you that you have received a bill on amendments and amendments to the Customs Code, which the Government has submitted. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours. We continue to work, dear colleagues, only in the next few minutes will we wait to see if the minister is there. If the minister isn't here, we'll take a break, but we're still in session. So, since you have received in the materials the total time for the parliamentary groups, five hours, how much is distributed by the parliamentary groups, I ask the parliamentary groups to submit a statement with the order of MPs. Since the minister isn't here right now, we're setting a 30-minute break and continuing work at 11.30. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principled search on the draft law. Does the Proposer's representative, Mrs. Verica Kalanovic, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4692	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have an important law before us to begin the sixth session of the regular session of the National Assembly. It's a law that, more specifically about the bill, which defines changes and additions to customs law that, to remind you, was adopted in 2010. So, in the period from 2010 to today, there has been an amendment of certain laws and regulations and it was necessary that, in accordance with the changed circumstances and the laws and conditions of business, changes and additions of this extremely important law take place. What are the basic objectives of this amendment and supplement law? The main objectives are the most effective planning and management of public finances and better control of the spending of money, and already in accordance with the Budget System Act adopted just over a month ago in the National Assembly. The second goal, of course, is to facilitate the business of businesses in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, both from the point of view of certain changes in the accounting of interest on customs debt and in adapting standards and regulations to EU standards. When we talk about the new customs law on amendments and additions to the existing one, three are the key reasons why we propose these changes. The first must be a compliance with the Constitutional Court decision governing the provision of Article 3 of Article 1 and this decision is related to the calculation of interest on a customs debt which is not paid within the time limit. Let me remind you, this is about the same interest account as how it was defined by the Tax Procedure and Administration Act, in the same way that interest is paid, if we have debts to the state, related to unpaid taxes and contributions, in the same way that we have if we have mutual debts that will be more detailedly governed by the law in the next period. In the current bill of law, in the Customs Law, to this day, there was a way of calculating interest by a comfortable method. The constitutional law has decided to make changes and new changes and additions in line with the harmonisation, in relation to this decision, have been amended by the relevant member. The second part is related to the alignment with the Budgetary System Act, which predicts that there is no revenue from the customs administration, that all revenues are related to the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia and certain members who have provided for payment and compensation of the costs incurred by the customs administration, eliminate such an opportunity and bind themselves to the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia. The third thing that is also important is to amend and supplement the existing law, agree with the provisions of EU rules in two areas. One is to reduce the deadlines for keeping customs and other documents and deadlines for notifying debtors from five to three years. This ensures greater legal certainty for operators. Economic operators are exempt from the obligation of long-term data storage on commercial transactions and the question is why this is important. On the one hand, in one way, the efficiency of the work of the customs administration will be accelerated, which will instead give its customs controls the opportunity to do so within five years, in three years, and on the other hand, allow greater legal certainty and ease in business and business entities towards raising business environments and improving business climate in Serbia. Finally, compliance with EU rules is also related to defining methods for analysis and control of samples. At this point, there are analyses and controls, but not according to the precisely defined methodology, and in the next period with sublegal acts, a way will be defined to determine the quality of the products that are being determined, which are present in the Republic of Serbia, and which are being promoted outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, whose production is outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia. On the one hand, quality control, methodology will be defined, and on the other hand, all laboratories will be able to perform this control. In this way, predictability in the work of customs authorities is also ensured and because, in addition to pre-defined product quality levels, it will be known exactly how these methods will be determined. We believe that this law is of paramount importance, however, and that the adoption of such a law was necessary because, in accordance with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, the harmonisation in different areas. That is why I invite you to support this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4693	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4694	Dear President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we have practically in Serbia a Customs Law adopted in 2010 which was spoken of by the Minister, but is also still in use, that is, part of the 2003 law and part of the law from Articles 252 to 329, which regulates the jurisdiction and organisation of customs administrations, the work of customs administration employees, employment, transfer, promotion of customs administration officials and other things. I think the time has come for us to pass a new law, a customs service law that would in a comprehensive way regulate previously cited matter, especially since the previous law that applies in this part has passed for more than ten years, and new facts and new circumstances have arisen. I'm just gonna remind you that the former Ministry of Finance has done the Customs Service Act and passed it to the government, and unfortunately, the government has not forwarded it to the assembly procedure, so that the law still stands in the government. I propose that Minister Kalanovic transfer the minister and the people of the Ministry of Finance to either that law, or the new law they will do, however, as soon as possible to the assembly procedure, in order to round up the work of the administration of the customs offices of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think it's even a hard job anymore, because the basics exist, and it just takes a little effort to do and the law to pass it on to the Assembly, and we're going to adopt it here, after the debate. As for the changes proposed today, there are good solutions that we will support, but there are also some bad solutions, for me, which we will not support and which we have submitted to. Depending on whether you accept our amendments, the DS MPs will vote in favour or against that law. So we'll see how you react to our amendments. When we talk about good things, first of all, I want to say that it's a very good thing, of course, that comes from the Constitutional Court decision, which you're talking about, which is that interest on customs debt is no longer calculated by a comfortable method, which is going to say, calculating interest on interest. I think it's bad and this is one step forward. I say, again, agreeing with the Constitutional Court, but all of it is, the Ministry reacted quickly, so that's a good decision. First of all, it is a good solution for businessmen who have had a lot of complaints in the previous period in such a way as to calculate interest. I think that the Government and the Assembly should do everything possible to make it as easier for people who do business today. One way is this. I'll remind you that the previous government has done a lot of things to make it easier for the businessmen about the customs procedure, about customs duties on goods, about their business. We've also done a lot for customs officials to get better conditions for work. I will remind you that in the previous four years we have opened four large customs complexes – in Šapac, Užica, in Kralje and in Kruševec, which are really modern, where businessmen do their job much faster and more effectively. I hope this government continues to work that way. I must say, before the opening of these customs complexes, the businessmen who came to finish their customs duties had to enter the so-called so-called. A customs terminal to pay 700 to 3,000 dinars per truck, which was a huge expense to them. There were constant objections. By building these complexes in these cities, we have solved this problem and there is no longer paid to enter the customs terminal, as well as in many other cities. I will also remind you that at the border crossings Presevo and Horgos were also paid to enter the customs terminal. We managed to eliminate that. That's how we made it a lot easier for our businessmen. When we talk about border crossings, I will remind you that in the previous period, construction and reconstruction of border crossings towards the Republic of Macedonia, towards Republika Srpska, towards Montenegro, and that these border crossings are now modern, but we have failed to complete everything. I hope the new government will finish what it started. I would remind you that an agreement has been reached with the EU to allocate 10m euros to the EU for 2013 to build three border crossings, which are Vatin, Gostun and Kotroman. The cotroman has already begun to work. The guest is a very bad transition. With this money, it will become a modern transition. The only obligation of the Republic of Serbia is to secure 10% of these 10 million, which is a million dinars. It is a pity that Minister Dinkic is not here, but I hope that he had that in mind when he was doing the draft budget for 2013 and that those funds had entered the budget, so that we could use these 10m euros and, with these three border crossings, round all the border crossings of the Republic of Serbia, which will be modern, which will not represent, as they once represented, a mockery. When a man comes to the Republic of Serbia, he first meets a bad border crossing. After building these three border crossings, that will no longer be the case. The complete border crossings will be modern and new. A good decision, a good solution in the new law you've been talking about, is that Customs Administration will no longer have its own income. I support this, and I think that no body should have its own income, but that all the money collected goes into the Republic of Serbia's budget and hence be distributed where it is needed. So far, the Customs Administration has had 10% of customs violations and the sale of confiscated goods. Now they won't have it, it's the Republic of Serbia's income. I ask you to make sure that there are costs of selling goods, keeping and stocking and that this cost is covered by the budget, that there is no situation that we can't finish the jobs that are very good. Speaking of which, I must say that we did so with the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, or tax offences, we returned it to the tax administration's jurisdiction. I think we need to think about it, and it needs to be handed over to Minister Dinkic, so we can get the customs violations back to Customs Administration. Why am I saying this? Because time has shown that misdemeanor courts don't work properly and are not effective in solving customs offences, so now we have a situation where a lot of confiscated goods stand, can't be sold, because we don't have a rightful solution. So it can only be sold once we have a valid solution. The value of this stuff falls every day. So if you have a car standing in the parking lot for five years or three years, until all this is over, its value will be multiple. It's obviously a loss for the Republic of Serbia's budget. I therefore suggest that you consider returning this to the jurisdiction of the Customs Administration, because the Customs Administration has done it much more effectively and faster and thus we have filled the budget of the Republic of Serbia faster. So these are some good things from this law, which we will support. That's not controversial. I think I was obliged to say that. What we disagree with, and what we don't think is a good solution at this point, is a reduction in the keeping of customs records from five to three years of age, i.e. the notification of debt, also from five to three years old. You said it would speed up the work of the customs authorities, and I mean vice versa. I don't think the Customs Administration is capable yet, but the staff has not been trained and technically able to finish the job in three years. That's why we're proposing to keep this period for five years. There may be various abuses over this, and it is possible that the Republic of Serbia's budget will suffer enormous damage. So, this whole procedure, when it comes to some controversial object, the collection of documentation, takes a very long time, because we need to consult the countries from which the goods come, we need to consult other organs. It's not going so fast. It is possible that we are in a position to damage the budget by millions of euros. To make it easier to understand, I'm going to set an example. For example, it is possible that when importing goods, the importer tariffs or suggests a tariff to one tariff number, that the customs administration accepts it at the first moment, and later it turns out that it was not a good tariff, but that some other tariff, and the difference may be 10% per item. So when you add it all up and subtract it, we had an example in practice, let's say, the damage is two million euros. So, when calculating the right rate of customs, instead of five percent, it should be accounted for at 15%, and then there are millions of direct damages to the budget. I think and repeat that at this point, the Customs Administration is unable to complete the job in three years, which is due to its inadequacies, but more due to the process that takes place in the collection of documentation. We suggest that at this point, not permanently, it remains for five years, until the conditions are obtained to be three years. So we're not against reducing the deadline, those arguments you've made I accept, but at this point there are no conditions for such a thing. It will be a great shame if it is accepted, especially knowing people who know the deadlines are shorter, so they will try and likely abuse the Republic of Serbia's budget. So we have submitted amendments to these two members with a proposal to stay for five years. If you accept, we will vote for this law. If you don't accept, of course we can't vote for this law. There's another illogicality in the law. I think it's more of a technical mistake and a technical thing. Maybe not, but I'm saying it's Article 7 where it's said that the Customs Administration is organising training and passing a special expert exam, and the revenues made on this basis belong to the Customs Administration. You have suggested that this change be made, that the 4th position be changed and that there be - a special expert examination for representation in the customs procedure shall be submitted to the examination committee, which shall be educated by the Minister on the proposal of the Director of Customs Administration. This is good, and it's good to delete that the revenues made on this basis belong to the Customs Administration. It's in the context of what I said and the 10%, but it's not good to delete that the Customs Administration organizes both training and passing a special expert exam. I think it should remain in the law, because the Customs Administration should organize training and passing an expert exam. Therefore, this sentence - The Customs Administration also organises and conducts a special expert examination, point, and then comes this position which you have proposed, in particular as stated in Article 21, for organising training for the submission of a specific expert examination or for the submission of that examination, i.e. that the customs authority collects fees or charges for the provision of special services and for the organisation of training for the submission of a special expert examination and for the submission of the examination. This article shows that the Customs Administration is competent to do so, but it is not clearly specified as in Article 7. So I suggest you leave this sentence to the Customs Administration to organise and train and pass a special expert exam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4695	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4696	In your opening statement, you said that the main reasons why amendments and amendments to customs law were resorted to and that this law should be brought into line with EU legislation, as if the same rules were not in force when the previous law was passed in 2010. In 2010, a new Customs Business Act was adopted. At that time, in the debate, the DSS MPs, we warned of some of its illogicalities and specifically noted that it must not stand in the law that debtors who do not pay debts to customs will be charged interest according to the comfortable method and that it is an anti-constitutional category and that one day they will raise that question before the Constitutional Court and will practically bring that decision down. The main fundamental reason why this law is changing is the one that we predicted two years ago and asked you then and we wrote amendments that such a law should not be adopted in that form, but that it should be changed and that the debt should not be calculated according to the comfortable method. Those operating with customs have resorted to the Constitutional Court's request for interpretation of this decision and the Constitutional Court decided in July 2012 that a member of the law defining the calculation of interest by a comfortable method is anti-constitutional and should therefore be amended. It's been four months since 12 July of this year until 13 November. The government had enough time after forming to prepare all possible conditions, to amend the law, to refer it to the assembly procedure, but also to prepare all technical conditions for the application of this law, or this article, essential two members, which is why the whole law is changed, Article. 8th and 12th, which say future interest will be calculated according to the method of simple interest account rather than the comfortable method. Given the reasons that you stated in the reasoning that the law is being amended, it is not clear how Article 14 is being said that the law will enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, with the exception of provisions 8 and 12 which apply from 1 January 2013. Then the question arises – why have we changed the whole law in the first place, and then what does the Constitutional Court's decision since July of this year, if the application will be only since 1 January 2013? The excuses, I suppose, will be, that it's impossible to apply it from the day of the law or that it couldn't have been before, are indeed bureaucratic explanations. And then we warned that if there were to be a lawsuit, and there would certainly be a lawsuit by the injured who were charged interest on this comfortable method, and the punishment and that damage would be suffered by the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or by all taxpayers. Now the logical question is asked – if so, who will be responsible for such failures? How is it possible that two years ago, the story of the harmfulness of certain members of that law, we warn, we write amendments, everyone stays in our story, the law simply votes, and you now sit in the new government and say that new conditions have come into effect that need to be changed and that we now agree with EU legislation and with the decisions of the Constitutional Court? EU legislation was the same two years ago as it is today. So it could've been done then, if that's the reason. Secondly, we also warned you that it was an anti-constitutional category and that you should not pass a law with such provisions. You ignored it. We're now adopting amendments and additions to the law. So, one complete absence of responsibility in the work, responsibility in proposing laws, responsibilities and acceptance of a healthy debate in the Serbian Parliament by MPs who do their job responsibly and who warn, whose role it is to consider certain laws, warn or give better solutions. On the side of the story, how much damage has been done to the Republic of Serbia's budget, or how much will be done because of the Constitutional Court's decision that this is against the constitution and because those who are damaged will sue the state of Serbia and ask for compensation for damages. You are aware of this, and in addition to being aware that this damage occurred and that we will be sued, you are putting in Article 14. that the application of the law, regardless of the Constitutional Court's decision six months ago, will only take place on 1 January 2013. You give them extra, on the one hand, you do the anti-cancer thing again, the anti-constitutional thing. It will be calculated from the day of the adoption of the law, in a few days, by the end of the year again on the comfortable method of interest, and again you provide opportunity for those who will be charged interest to sue the state of Serbia. Again, there's a question of responsibility for what it's all about. I know that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is in an uninvited situation, that the charge is relatively weak, that costs are much higher, that the deficit is great and that any revenue in the budget is important and necessary, but if we come to the budget of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the application of illegal provisions of certain laws, then I don't think that this is a way and that this will be a greater gift than the measure, that we will do more damage to the budget of the Republic of Serbia than the benefit, because sooner or later it will have to come to the charge. I took it and analyzed the amount of customs revenue. So, in principle, the customs duties of each country serve various things, but the primary objective of the existence of customs duties is to protect domestic production, to protect domestic market and consumers, to iron certain prices in the region, but also to serve as a significant instrument for filling the budget of a particular country. Accordingly, I reviewed the budgets of the Republic of Serbia from 2004 to today and came to the next conclusion. The revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget based on customs duties was 33 billion dinars in 2004, or about 460m euros. In 2005, it was 475m euros, in 2006, there were 680m, in 2007, there were 680m euros, in 2008 as much as 760m euros. Since 2009, customs-based income has dropped to 540m, rebalancing to 500m euros. In 2010, customs-based income was 420m euros, 400m euros in 2011, and in 2012 customs-based revenues in the republican budget will be barely 300m euros. Why do I say hardly? Because the figures are far below those that were four years ago and far below those that the Republic of Serbia's budget can earn, that those who run the state and those who propose the laws are really thinking domestically and thinking, above all, interestingly and about the interests of this country, and not about the interests of those with whom we want us to allegedly coordinate. A couple of revenues in the republican budget from customs since 2009 were directly caused by the unilateral application of the SAA, according to which the state of Serbia started to abolish customs duties for certain types of products divided into three groups – from those which were classified as sensitive, to those with very high sensitivity, with a grace period of one year, two, three or five, so practically in 2013, a huge list of products that Serbia imports without customs, thus directly helping foreign competition to enter the domestic market, which is far stronger, more powerful and richer, will help multinational companies to make their domestic market, no matter how big or small it was for them and directly affecting the fall of income in the Republic of Serbia's budget. In addition to the apparent damages measured in hundreds of millions of euros, however, I will be honest, one part of the drop in customs revenues is caused by the global economic crisis and the general decline in imports, but it is impossible that since 2008, when we had 760m euros in customs revenues, customs revenues fall to 300m euros in four years. It can be understood that perhaps one quarter, as much as it is the decline of imports, is caused by this, but the rest is a direct damage from the application of the SAA and the elimination of customs duties on many products. The figures move, order and size, between 300m and 400m euros in direct damage, which the Republic of Serbia has since the implementation of the SAA, due to its headless policy – Europe has no alternative. What did we get? We have received an open European market, which we have had since 2000, and we have not been able to go out for many reasons. First, because we are not competitors and our economy and industry cannot meet the needs of even the domestic market in certain branches, let alone bring about something. Secondly, because the standards for going out on that market are far more stringent and involve a huge investment to achieve this, which this country neither gives nor domestic economy can withstand. The third thing, which, after all, we don't have such a strong domestic economy and an industry that can produce enough products to go into a foreign market. We have virtually no use, and we have enormous damage – the first, in the fall of income, and the second, much greater indirect with the total killing of domestic economy and industry. By opening borders and not protecting domestic producers, we have damage in hundreds of thousands of closed jobs, so that the number of employees from 2008 to today, you know, has increased by several hundred thousand workers. The number of employees in 2008, 2007, 2006, however you will, was about two million and today it moves below a million and 700 thousand. In such conditions, the decline in industrial production since 2008 has continued to be constant every year, from 3% to 5%, and has sometimes moved more. The forecast for this year is that industrial production will fall by 4% compared to the previous year. The previous one was smaller than the previous one. All of this makes it clear that the full non-resonal application of the SAA, which directly damages the state of Serbia, directly harms the citizens of this country, so that the lack of income that has been projected and has always been made from customs, Serbian citizens have to settle in another way – whether the increase of excise duties on excise products, whether by increasing certain taxes, but in any case, the budget of the Republic of Serbia must be filled in as much as necessary for consumption. If there are no customs duties, if we let foreign goods enter without customs duty on the domestic market and not be taxed, or painted, then citizens must through excise duties fill that deficit in the budget. Multiple damage has been done to the citizens of this country by the previous government. Unfortunately, this government, too, continues, seems, in the same way, that Europe has no alternative and that it will do everything, even at its own expense, to be an associated member, perhaps 50 years from now, even though we certainly have no use for it at this point, and then we will see if we will have it. I don't think the functioning of the government in this way leads to anything. The provisions of this law are in this Article 12, which I mentioned earlier, again against constitutional and harmful to our budget, harmful to taxpayers. We have written an amendment to Article 12, and we will ask you to accept it, to apply the law immediately after adoption, so that we do no further harm to the citizens who import goods, so that they are charged interest under this law, but also indirect damages that will take place later in the Republic of Serbia's budget on the basis of seeking compensation for non-application of the law, as it should have been after the Constitutional Court's decision. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4697	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4698	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister Kalanovic, proposed amendments to the laws on the agenda today are both necessary, both necessary and logical. It is clear from the Constitutional Court's decision that this change in the method of calculating interest on the customs debt is unconstitutional and in that sense this law had to endure changes. Minister Kalanovic explained other changes concerning and compliance with the Law on the Budgetary System, so to speak, the abolition of so-called. discretionary revenues to the Customs Administration, which I think is a really good solution and all the other changes. In my opinion, it could have been heard from previous discussions, there are also solid proposals, and perhaps you should consider Mr. Djidic's proposal to return the administration of customs to the second-degree procedure for efficiency. At this point, I have no insight into the capacity and possibilities, I guess the Customs Administration, in line with what was done in the Tax Administration, has the capacity and that's the thing to think about anyway. What I want to say to this occasion is that the purpose of customs is not, firstly, to achieve revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Of course customs are not the right way to protect domestic production. They can only act limitedly on such a type of protection, create much more efficient conditions to strengthen the competitiveness of domestic businesses and businesses, not to protect them by customs. If the domestic economy is protected only by customs, it is becoming more and more uncompetitive and, as time goes on, less and less likely to step into some third markets, i.e. to go to export. In that sense, this one race is completely lost. Customs policy and tax policy are key policies for the overall economic system and the overall fiscal policy. Given our desire to join the EU and that we are already in the process. The above-mentioned agreement implies what is happening, that customs revenues are falling, that customs barriers are slowly reducing what will enable our economies, despite all the difficulties of working on competitiveness and creating chances of going to other markets. Something that should certainly be considered in the perspective, given that this is happening in most EU countries, some have already happened, in those countries that have become EU members in the last few years and those who are candidates, is that the importance and role of customs revenues, the customs service itself, is being reduced, relativated and directed towards certain other objectives. What do I mean? The formation of the EU, the removal of customs barriers and the meaning and importance of the customs service have changed. The revenues generated in the customs service are increasing and many countries have resorted to some organisational measures, different solutions compared to the classical customs service. More and more functions related to protection against illicit trafficking, such as drug trafficking, terrorism, human trafficking. Therefore, the purpose of the customs service is to turn together with the MUP towards other functions, and this fiscal significance is becoming less and less pronounced. In some countries, customs services have been attached to the tax administration, which is also a solution to be considered in terms of reducing the role and importance of customs revenues and these new functions attached to the customs service. In fact, some EU countries already have united these services and the reasons for this may lie in the fact that today the Customs Administration collects and charges all VAT on imports of goods, and it is not small. He is in some years and more than half of the country's total VAT, so there is a contradiction that refers to customs charging one income which is, I say, the jurisdiction of the tax administration. Perhaps in the perspective of uniting these two functions would lead to a reduction in costs. I don't suggest doing this right now, but this is an idea and a possible solution that needs to be considered in perspective in order to make these two and important related services more efficient, to reduce common costs and to achieve the common potential of two important and significant institutions, such as the tax administration and the customs administration. Once again, a significant number of countries have united these two services. Once again, I would also like to say that there is no need to regret the reduced incomes which, I agree with my colleague, the consequences and the reduced volume of trade, reduced imports and the consequences of the economic crisis. We have to face the fact that domestic economy needs to be faced with competition. There should be careful and careful and gradually lower barriers and take measures to protect the economy and make it more efficient. Finally, I would like to say that the parliamentary group of the URS will support these amendments to the laws that are really necessary and that signify only compliance with these circumstances, compliance with some of the laws that have been passed in the meantime. In voting day, we will support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4699	MP Gjorge Milicevic. Excuse me. Milan Lapčević, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4700	Short. Sir, I understand that logic may be correct to expect if the SAA is already applied that the drop in customs revenue will be expected and that it is not the best method to protect production by customs regulations, protects the domestic market as a unilateral measure. We've heard your stories since 2008 that by encouraging domestic production, opening up other markets, providing an opportunity to export, because only exports, large production and exports can stimulate the lack of income from customs and that this is how to create a healthy economy. What happened in these four years? Is that what it is? If the direct income from customs is lower, is the export increase, so that we say about that basis that we did something? In parallel with the drop in customs revenue, we have a drop in exports and a decline in GDP. Direct damage from 2008 to 2012, i.e. customs revenues are lower by 800m euros compared to the period 2005 to 2008. We have 800 million less in the budget in four years. Let's not talk about indirect losses. From 2008 to 2012, GDP fell from 32 billion 668 million to 28 billion 643 million, for four billion euros it fell by four years. We were supposed to step up our economy, make it more competitive, make bigger exports and make GDP grow. We also dropped our customs revenue. We don't protect domestic production. We have a drop in exports and a drop in GDP. It's all a fall. There's no growth anywhere. That's the point of the story, that the document that's being applied is harmful in every sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4701	Time, Mr. Lapchev. Thank you. Sir, I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4702	I'm glad we agreed that we shouldn't protect the domestic high customs economy and that for the long term, it's damaging, which is evident on our case and the fact that we have bad indicators in the economy has nothing to do with customs policy and what we're talking about today. Of course, we need to find a solution to make the economy more efficient. These solutions do not lie in customs policy, especially in that policy that involves customs barriers and protection of domestic production, but lies in incentives, in something called building infrastructure, creating a business environment, reducing bureaucratic procedure. It is precisely in this direction that the government's efforts, Minister Kalanovic, who in this government is in charge of part of the job, I mean first of all the construction of local infrastructure, the roads she spoke about not today but during her steps, and cut, or abolishing parafiscal commitments and all the opportunities we had to discuss here and vote on, and what will follow with the adoption of the budget and the package of laws, which go along with that budget, go exactly in the direction of the economy getting better, to make it more competitive and efficient. Of course we're only at the beginning of that trip, but I'm glad we agreed that customs are not a way to protect domestic economy, but precisely through these measures that are now being taken by the government and the Ministry of Finance and the economy are the way to become competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4703	Mr. Lapcevic, what's your answer? Did he mention you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4704	I'll be brief. I don't want to spread a story right now. You mentioned that this set of laws should allow for faster flow of goods, reduction of customs barriers, reduction of bureaucratic procedures, etc. Have you been to any border crossings recently? Did you see the kilometre columns of the truck? Is that a faster flow of goods? I don't think so. Mr. Djidic was head of customs for a long time. Whether it is Hungary, whether it is Croatia, Bulgaria, kilometers. I don't think it's going to meet a faster flow of goods and make it easier for businesses to do business. I think there's a lot of room for improvement. I have one more question. We have various customs stations all over Serbia. When you're importing a car, you'll be in Subotica, customsing it on a basis, for example. of 5,000 euros, and in Nis, Leskovac, Vranju will be three times higher, according to the same Customs Act. How is that possible? You have tens of thousands of cars imported used, customs dutyed in Subotica and Sapco, for example. and in Nis or throughout Serbia hundreds. Why? Because people go where their customs will be less. Are these misses in customs service or customs law? If the Customs Law should apply to everyone and be the basis for all the same, then there's something wrong, or there's room for corruption opening up. There's something here. I guess that's the point, that this application of the law is equal to everyone and that it enables faster flow of goods, much more quality, much simpler procedures, not kilometre columns and different arches from the city to the city.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4705	Mr. Ilichu, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4706	Just for a minute, one sentence. Once again, we agree, the kilometre columns will be avoided on the day we join the EU and that is the way. Of course, it's not a law issue, I agree, it's kind of in law enforcement. The issue of the customs service organisation and the accompanying services, the creation of lines at borders, the efficiency of the procedure itself are organisational issues, they do not always have to be bad legal solutions. Certainly, that is why we are going this way, to avoid this kind of harassment and businesses and citizens, to enter a large market of 500 million people, so that we can work far more effectively and better with the EU countries we are certainly directed at through trade, exports and imports. These are our most important partners, and that is why we are going to the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4707	Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4708	It's just, the truth works, let me tell you. It is true that at border crossings there are sometimes columns of trucks waiting to enter the Republic of Serbia, to carry out customs formalities, but not to turn out to be due to customs administration. At border crossings near the Ministry of Finance, i.e. Customs Administration, both the Ministry of Police and the Ministry of Agriculture are represented, and mainly the stalemate is due to the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. due to the phytosanitary checks that are necessary for trucks to move on. Every time the border is mentioned, it immediately binds to customs, to Customs Administration. The least of the problems with Customs Administration, they do their job very well and quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4709	Thank you. MP Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4710	Mr. President, Mrs. Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I would agree, Mrs. Kalanovic, with you. At the very beginning, you said it was an important legal proposal and it is. It is about an important legislative proposal that is both necessary and necessary at the moment. Amendments and additions to the Customs Code are defined. In 2010, this has already been said, I think it was in the first half of 2010, March or April 2010, the Customs Law of the Republic of Serbia was adopted. I would like to say that the SPS MPs supported and voted in favour of the Customs Code proposal. We said clearly during the debate in the principle that we want to believe in what is defined at that time as objectives which are to be achieved by adopting this legislative proposal, that it is a modern law that simplifies the procedure, that it represents one step forward, as it is then said, towards approaching European legislation, that it actually contains those basic principles on which the EU Customs Law is based and that it is in line with the World Trade Organisation's views and the World Customs Organisation, that it will enable effective monitoring of goods and capital, greater liberalisation of the traffic of goods, the protection of Serbia's financial interests and, as I said, that it will simplify the procedure for faster and more efficient customs. Today, two years after the adoption of this legislative proposal, we have before us the draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Act which is both necessary and necessary and necessary, above all after the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision and it is good that the ministry responded immediately after the Constitutional Court's decision was taken, but today, unfortunately, we see that the objectives that wanted to achieve the adoption of the Customs Law have not been fully realised. In the opening statement, you said this bill on amendments and amendments to the Customs Act had two objectives. The first objective is more efficient planning, management, control and spending of public finances. The second objective is to facilitate the business of business operators. These goals are acceptable to us. These goals are just the result of what you stated in the further presentation, which is the basic reasons why it is important to accept this legislative proposal. It is, in fact, three essential reasons why it is important to support today, during the debate in principle and after the debate in particular, which is why it is important to support this legislative proposal. The first reason is that it is the harmonisation of the provisions of the Customs Code with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia of July 2012, the second reason is to comply with the provisions of the new laws adopted in the past period of time and the third reason is to bring our regulations in this area into line with EU regulations, i.e. to continue harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation. There's a fourth reason, not so irrelevant, but it's important again, and that's a certain correction of the observed technical errors. I think it's about plans 297 and 249. Customs law. Therefore, when it comes to compliance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Justice of July 2012, it is already said, in July 2012, the Constitutional Court decided to apply the comfortable method for calculating the interest rate of the customs debt not paid within the time limit does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and so today this solution is proposed, that the amount of the less charged interest rate is calculated by applying the interest account of the table, which is justified and the logical solution and the proposal. On the other hand, in addition to harmonising with the Constitutional Court's decision, we have here, in some ways, a legal-technical alignment called the Central Bank with a very precise and clearly defined provision of Article 95(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It would somehow be in general the first essential reason why it is important to accept this legal proposal. The second reason you also spoke of is to comply with the provisions of the Customs Code with the provisions of the new laws and new laws, and above all, to think of the harmonisation of the laws governing the budget system and with a very clear objective, which is to control, manage and plan public finances, and we also find it entirely justified. In addition to harmonising with the amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act, we also have the harmonisation of certain provisions of the Customs Act, and that is defined by these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Violations, when it comes to the authority for the conduct of the procedure in the second degree, with the fact that there is really no need to consider the proposal that could have been heard in the previous discussion, that customs infringements still return to the Customs Administration, because the courts for infringements, unfortunately, are not so effective. I think this proposal should be considered during the debate on details. Also, that's what article 54 was about. The customs law would have to be made up and in line with the foreign exchange rate recalculation. That would actually be another reason why we should support this legal proposal. The third reason is therefore to comply with the rules of the Republic of Serbia with EU rules in this area, i.e. harmonising our legislation with EU legislation. This is precisely why certain changes have been proposed that concern, above all, deadlines and the keeping of customs and other documents. Then, the debt debtor's notification, and certain changes in the regulation obligation are foreseen, you spoke of this, the method which analyses the sample of goods. This is therefore the continuation of harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation in this area and that is the third reason. As I said in the opening statement, at the very beginning, so the fourth reason would be to agree with the observed technical errors, and it is to Articles 297 and 249. Customs law. Those amendments have been defined and removed by the proposed amendments and additions in Articles 6, 9 and 11 of the proposed amendments to the Customs Code. So, as you could hear, these proposed amendments and additions to the Law have both good and bad sides. The bad news is, there's been no sighting of certain defects in time. The good news is that we have a quick and urgent reaction from the Ministry and that these shortcomings will be resolved in the next period of time. As I said, we accept in principle as a legislative club a legal proposal. We are prepared to take part in the debate in particular, to seriously consider proposals that we could hear and accept in the form of amendments, whether they come from a position or opposition, only in one clear objective, that, through a certain period of time, we would simply not have proposed amendments to the Customs Code again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4711	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to talk about amendments to the Customs Code and you're going to let me talk like everyone else about the basic law, not just the one we're changing this basic law today. I'll talk about the past period and what happened to customs, and customs is basically import goods tax. In the direction of the movement of customs duties, they may be import and export and transit. According to the objective, they can be introduced to settle public expenditure. They can be economical, or protective, to protect the market. They can also be repressive, we can apply them to countries in reciprocity that respect our market. In the manner in which customs duties are introduced, they may be contractual and autonomous, and at the level of the burden they may be preferential. I'm afraid our customs duties, and I'm going to talk first of all about agriculture, are very weak, so when imports don't care enough about the protection of the market, above all about protecting agricultural production. With this amendment and the addition of the Law, nothing changes in this direction. By signing various agreements, we have come to the position that in 2014 customs will be almost fully equalised in relation to Serbia and EU countries. This would not be disputed, but it is disputed that we EU members will most likely become 2020 or 2022, and by that time period we will not have any access to funds, pre-accession EU funds, at least those concerning agriculture. What do I mean? In the countries from which we import agricultural products and in countries with which we will almost equalise customs rates on agricultural products in 2014, premiums and subsidies on their agricultural production are far greater than in Serbia, I would like to say that they are ten times higher. Of course, their agricultural producers and the food industry already play some role in their market, and by equating these customs rates and by leaving our market completely, our agricultural production will be compromised, almost under dumping conditions by countries that largely subsidise agricultural products. Over 40,000 tonnes of meat have been imported into Serbia for the past five years. In doing so, the control in the way that this meat was produced, whether genetically modified organisms were produced, Serbia left that type of control to the countries from which it imported that meat. So there was no control over genetically modified organisms when they imported that meat. To point out, the price for these 40,000 tonnes of meat is about 200m euros, and for 200m euros, if we were smart, we could grow 200,000 breeding heifers, so that each year we could export meat to the EU market worth 50m euros. So for those four years we imported, we could have been exporters somewhere around 200m euros, and we lost it because we didn't pay enough attention to protecting the domestic market. The amendments and additions of this law certainly do not encourage domestic agricultural production, they will further favour import agricultural production, and when you compare these premiums and conventions, the farmer does not predominate, the consumer, the processor, who is sure that under more favourable conditions than ours, will get raw materials. Of course, such agricultural producers and food producers of EU countries on such an unprotected market can obtain extra profits. By underlining once again, that when importing these agricultural products, testing against genetically modified organisms is not done by our country, but by the country from which agricultural products are imported. It is not difficult, therefore, that 2014 will be a huge impact on agricultural production, that we who have 10 times less subsidies and premiums will have as a competitor on our own market for agricultural production and food production from EU countries that have a protection of around 450 euros per hectare. So they're ten times more premiums and subsidies, and of course they'll be competitive not only with themselves, but with us. This old village, the tortured peasants, the tormented agriculture will be at an even greater risk of being completely suppressed not only by agricultural production, but also by clogged whole villages, villages, smaller settlements, and smaller towns. Not only does agricultural production, loss and processing industry lose if agricultural production stops due to lack of customs measures and customs protection. Since 2014, we will also be at risk of a food industry that will be left without raw materials because if agricultural production ceases to throw out agricultural products. Of course, our food industry will either be oriented or imports of raw materials from countries that will have almost preferred on our market, or food products will be shut down, because countries that export agricultural products will most likely not like us export raw materials, but will export finished food products. This law doesn't change anything about it. So, since 2014, we will be left to the mercy and mercy far stronger than ourselves, multinational companies that will insert food and agricultural products of very suspicious quality, as it is now happening with some varieties of seeds, where it is allowed even to import some seeds with the characteristics of genetically modified organisms. First of all, I think of corn, although France and Germany in 2009, in 2010 gave up production of such a type of corn. I'm afraid our government, the previous government, has already given in, that if our government doesn't take it seriously, it will contribute to a serious blow to the rest of our agriculture and instead of developing our factory under the clear sky, I'm afraid we'll contribute to its asphyxiation. Let me just say that everything and everything is imported into Serbia, out of tomatoes, beans, etc. This reduces prices for domestic agricultural producers. There is almost no customs protection, and this loses the motive for agricultural production if someone imports tomatoes from Turkey, Macedonia, etc., at significantly lower prices, almost without any customs protection, in which case the production of our vegetables is failing. I'll tell you everything from where we import meat to our shame. So thanks to the low degree of protection, we import meat from Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, the Netherlands, France, Italy, Greece, Germany, Hungary, Slovakia, Poland, etc. To make the miracle even bigger, we import meat all the way from Macedonia, BiH and Montenegro. I'm afraid we were proud to export corn, we said we exported corn for 500 million euros last year. Of course, that information is of great value, but right now I want to say that those who are proud of this 500m-euro corn export should immediately say that on that 500m-ton of corn exports, we've lost so much livestock and livestock production, and we've lost almost 20% through the slaughterhouse industry. Instead of being worth 1.2 billion to our exports, instead of hiring small holdings and predomining every small household, non-commercial, to encourage each of them to hold two cows and a dozen pigs, we are, contrary to our own measures, talking about what the previous government did, almost choked domestic production for foreign purposes. This law doesn't change anything, I'm afraid that we will continue, if we continue the practice of the old government, the old regime, then we will end up like them. They borrowed money, borrowed nearly six billion in four years. The borrowed money was not released through our production, through agriculture, the food industry, and then they let it into the store, they let that money directly into foreign trade chains and foreign banks. So the money we borrowed we used to get foreign goods, to get their agricultural products, to get their food products, and all we had left was an increased debt that this poor people would have to pay back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4713	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4714	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished Mrs. Kalanovic, reminders for the sake of customs law, we started our first regular session in 2010. It is the famous session with 38 agenda points, when you voted in this assembly for a 170m-euro Serbian loan to cover the budget deficits of 160m euros, etc. At that time, the current minister, Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, said it was a technical law, which should facilitate exports, simplify and speed up customs procedures and that it was fully in line with EU rules. What turned out in the meantime? That it should be re-harmonised with EU regulations, because it is obvious that in 2010 what was in Serbia was five years, it was three years in Europe, and that is why this member is changing. What else was wrong with this law? The freighters proved in the procedure before the Constitutional Court, the unconstitutional customs procedure. In 2010, the Customs Law introduced something that also banned Roman law, which is an anatocism, or abuse of debtors, by not being appropriate by increasing monetary obligations. Unfortunately, we haven't heard from you today, Mrs Kalanovic, how will these provisions apply to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia? How the Customs Law will apply in Kosovo and Metohija, when obvious obstructions in these procedures are made to both the EU and the World Trade Organisation. What is your projection of the inflow of customs funds after the adoption of this law? In no word did you mention and link the customs procedure, the Customs Act with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as I suppose the Customs Law treats a uniquely defined customs space, and certainly the Kosovos and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia. The simple application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which represents in fact one legal absurd, one systemic error in the Republic of Serbia's system, has already completely enriched us as a state, as an economy. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement did not open, of course, the EU door to Serbia. European investors did not rush into Serbia, as announced at the time. By applying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, customs duties on imports of certain EU products have been abolished, causing Serbia and our domestic producers to suffer enormous damage. A colleague, Lapcevic, showed by a clear analysis of the 2008-2012 budget, that we lost nearly 800m euros in direct customs revenues due to lower customs duties conditioned by the application of the SAA. But what's a bigger problem is the indirect damage that's caused. The fact that hundreds of thousands of people have lost their jobs, and the reason is not only the global economic crisis, that tens of thousands, primarily small and medium-sized enterprises, have been shut down, that Serbia has entered an unequal match. Of course it's the hardest thing for farmers. I think Mr. Risticevic explained it in the best way here, and I really don't understand it, if SNS MPs accept this presentation, how do you think this law goes through in the voting day. Since 2014, when the six years of the transitional period expires, almost total liberalisation of the EU market for imports of products will follow. How is Serbia preparing for the moment? It's only for a year and a half, I assume you're planning for this government to push through the entire mandate, so in 2014, you're going to have to answer that question as well. I think it's about time we were getting ready for this. At the moment, EU products are almost twice as high as Serbia's exports to the EU area. How are we going to solve the problem that domestic production has run out of demand? There was a controversy about it just now, but I haven't heard from the president of the ruling coalition a concrete answer. In a situation where we have the appreciation of dinars, when we have liberalised foreign trade, when we have reduced customs rates, from the Serbian economy remains definitely the moon's landscape if something doesn't change. If the decline in competitiveness of the economy, if the overrated domestic currency leads to the growth of the external trade deficit, what are the measures that are being taken to prevent something like this? In doing so, the domestic currency is defended by new borrowings, by the signs of our countrymen from abroad and by the sale of assets. Mr Dinkic also said in this parliament and in some statements in the public that a decisive turn is needed. I really agree with that, but I don't think this turn will allow exactly the IMF, and we'll see that today after the first talks with IMF representatives and whether everything that was planned in the 2013 budget will come to an understanding, or whether it's practical. In a situation where the budget register is empty and filled, unfortunately again, with loans, when the state is over-indebted, when the citizens are poor, when the economy is on their knees, I think that this government is left with nothing but the same thing that your previous government did. So, we're going to live from today to tomorrow, we're going to continue the desperate borrowing, we're going to sell what's left of the property, so don't nobody swear that tomorrow they won't be sold to Telecom, the Commercial Bank, parts of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia or anything else. In one analysis we did in the DSS, we did not ignore the economic crisis, but key economic indicators talk about the real economic Sunflower compared to 2008. In this table, of course, which we will elaborate in the debate on the budget, you can clearly see how much the GDP decline is, how much lower the customs revenues are and how poorer we are after four years of government, where you were, of course, too. Due to the extremely difficult situation in the country, we offer our sincerest assistance and support, because we have tried to correct this law with the amendment we have submitted, and we hope that it will be accepted to avoid many procedures, to protect the budget of the Republic of Serbia from paying the damages to all those who have been damaged by the application of the anti-constitutional provision adopted in 2010, which we have already pointed out. For this reason, either you or Mr Dinkic, I think he will also have the opportunity on the Committee, and also in the debate in particular to hear all our arguments and accept our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-13-0.u4715	I have on the list the MPs of Dejan Mihajlov and Radojko Obradovic, and as far as I can tell, none of them are there. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a principled debate on the proposal for a law. I am informing the MPs that we are finishing today's work and continuing tomorrow November 14th at 11.00 p.m. Thank you very much.
