ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-25-0.u265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 106 Members of the Parliament are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 159 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Branko Ružić, Vesna Stepić and Milorad Stosic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, we would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to review the draft agenda acts set out in the request of 126 MPs to hold an extraordinary session as soon as possible. In accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we'll inform you that we'll be working longer than 1800 hours today. In addition to the meeting of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2012, which was convened at the request of 126 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 249 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a request was submitted for the holding of the Fourth Extraordinary Session with a specific agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly, the following is set: Proposal for the appointment of the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who was submitted by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly and 2. The motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of the Republic Election Commission, submitted by MP Dr Jorvanka Tabakovic. National MP Dr Jorvanka Tabaković, based on Article 92(2) and Article 157(2) and Article 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint single search be carried out on a proposal for the appointment of the deputy secretary general of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by National Assembly Secretary General and a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputy members of the RIK, which was submitted by National MP Dr Jorvanka Tabakovic. Does the MP Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 123 MPs voted against, against one, there was no abstention, there was no vote by 47 MPs, a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. By unanimous decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I don't suppose we have a proposal to double the time of the debate. If we do not, the total time of the debate is five hours and is being deployed in the following way according to parliamentary groups: the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group - one hour and 18 minutes, the Democratic Party parliamentary group - one hour and 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group - 30 minutes, Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds, the Liberal Democratic Party parliamentary group - 16 minutes and 48 seconds, the United Regions of Serbia - 18 minutes, the Parliamentary Group of PUPS - 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the parliamentary group of New Serbia - nine minutes and 36 seconds, the Parliamentary group of Unity Serbia - eight minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Duke Hungarians - six minutes, the parliamentary group SP-DSS - six minutes and six minutes of the six-minute sog group. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement, shall determine no more than three participants in the debate who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. Pursuant to Article 193, pursuant to Article 157 paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint single search on a proposal to appoint the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic of Election Commission. Do the promoters Jana Ljubicic, Secretary General of the National Assembly and National MP Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, until the opening of a joint single search, not a single parliamentary group, not a single MP has applied for a word in writing. Since the lists are no longer signed up for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 96, want the word. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a joint single search. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint July 25th at 4:00 p.m. as the day for voting on all items of the session agenda of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the proposal for the selection of the Deputy Secretary and the resolution and appointment of the Republic Election Commission. I'm sorry, we have to formally determine the quorum before the vote. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 164 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Before moving to the vote, I remind you that according to Article 37, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure, Deputy Secretary-General, appointed by the majority of the total number of MPs. I would like to put the motion to be named Mladen Mladenovic and Radoslav Vujovic as deputy secretary-generals. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 131 MPs voted against, one against, no abstentions, and no 46 MPs voted, of a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly appointed Mladen Mladenovic and Radoslav Vujovic by majority of the votes of all MPs as deputy general secretary-general. Allow me to congratulate Mladen Mladenovic and Radoslav Vujovic on his appointment as Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly and wish them success in performing this function. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda - Proposal for a DECISION ON RESOLVATION AND NAME OF THE MEMBER STATES AND OF THE REGIONAL COMMISSION MEMBER STATES After the National Assembly has carried out the search and before the transition to decision-making, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of Article 15) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all the MPs is exercising electoral authority. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 149 MPs voted in favour, it was not against, one MP was abstention, 28 MPs did not vote, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the draft decision in principle by majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Balsa Bozovic has tabled an amendment to two motions for a decision. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I repeat the vote. So, I put to the vote amendments by MP Balša Bozovic. I conclude the vote and declare: 139 MPs voted against, three MPs who were abstentioned were not and were not voted by 33 MPs, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. National MP Aleksandar Jugovic has tabled an amendment to two motions for a decision. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 123 MPs voted against, one MP was against, three MPs were abstentions, not 50 MPs, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. (Ivica Dacic, from the post: We cannot vote until we see what we have adopted. Give me five-minute break. ) I am setting a five-minute break for consultations with the heads of the parliamentary groups. [[after breaks]] I would like to inform the National Assembly that Mr Yugoslavia's amendment meant to fill the number of RIK deputies this parliamentary group is entitled to and the amendment stipulates that Mr Predrag Savic is elected as deputy member. Unfortunately, because of a vague proposal, there was a confusion. I ask you to repeat the vote, so that we have a clear decision of the National Assembly. I would like to put Mr Jugovic's amendments to the vote and ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the parliamentary unit. I remind you that most of the total number of MPs, or at least 126 MPs, are required for most. I conclude the vote and I declare that 158 MPs voted against, against one, there was no abstention, there was no vote of 13 MPs from a total of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputy members of the RIK in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that 163 MPs voted against, against one MP, with no abstention, nine MPs were not voted by a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputy members of the RIK by majority of the votes of all MPs. I would also like to inform you of the reports of the board on administrative and budgetary issues. On the basis of Article 198(3) and Article 65(2), paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs at the second session, held on 25 July 2012, discussed the reason for the end of the National MP's mandate and submitted the following report: "The Committee has determined that the appointment of MP Milan Bačević, elected from the electoral list Let Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic, took place the case of Article 88(5). The Law on the selection of Members of Parliaments in which the taking over of a job or function, which is incompatible with the parliamentary function, states as one of the reasons for the termination of the term of office of the MP before the end of the time to which he was elected, and suggests that the National Assembly within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of the appointed MP. In this way, the selection of a new MP shall be made possible through the allocation of the term of office by the applicants of that electoral list to another candidate in accordance with Article 92. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. The committee's reports at the National Assembly session were set up by Jorgenka Tabakovic, chairman of the board. “ Also on the basis of Article 198(3) and Article 65(2), paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and Immunity at the second session, held on 25 July 2012, discussed the reasons for the termination of the mandate to the MPs and submitted the following report. "The board found that by submitting the resignation of MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandar Nikolic and Jane Ljubic, selected from the electoral list Let Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic; then, MP Dragan Djilas, elected from the election list "Selectment for a Better Life" - Boris Tadic; MP Iceta Radoncic, elected from the election list "Sandzak Party of Democratic Action", and MPs Vojislav Kostunica, Dragan Jocic and Aleksandr Popovic, elected from the Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica. The case referred to in Article 88(2) has taken place. The Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, which lists the resignation as one of the reasons for the termination of the term of office of the People's Parliament before the end of his election, and we propose that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88(3) and (4) of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office by appointment of Members of the People's Parliaments. This allows the selection of new MPs through the allocation of mandates by applicants of those electoral lists to other candidates in accordance with Article 92. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. The committee's rapporteur at the National Assembly session was appointed Jorgovanka Tabakovic, president of the Committee. "Does Mrs. Tabakovic want a word? (No) In accordance with the report you received and what you heard, I find that these MPs have ceased the mandate of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. I hereby conclude the fourth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. I remind you that the debate on the amendments and the continuation of the session is tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., or the continuation of the previous session. Some of the boards are in progress today and tomorrow, so please attend the committee sessions.
