ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4716	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. On the basis of official records of the presence of MPs, 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 105 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dragomir Karic, Gojko Radic, Stefana Miladanovic, Gordana Comić, Maja Gojkovic, Mladen Grujic and Elena Mijatovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that, apart from the representatives of Proposals Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications; Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice and State Administration; Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry; Mr Verica Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government and Goran Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Mr Mladjana Matić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications; Mr Danilo Nikolic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration; Vlajko Senić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry; Tatjana Matić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and Interior and Telecommunications; Bojana Todorov of Foreign Trade and Telecommunications; Jasmina Rosic, Head of the Department of Finance of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs of Foreign Affairs of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Ministry of the Government of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to a joint single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the draft laws on items 2 to 5 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. The exact schedule of time you got in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters; Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on the mutual enforcement of judgments in criminal matters; Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on the Consensation of the Treaty on the Consensation of Contracts between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on the Consensus of Criminal Procedures. Does Prime Minister Goran Knezevic want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4717	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the ratification of these agreements is concerned, we of the LDP can only support ratification. We really support that we have the best possible relations with our neighbours and with the former republics of the SFRY. So legal assistance with Macedonia and Slovenia is desirable, as useful as it is. For that you have our support. However, there is another problem. The government insists on bringing Europe to Serbia, building some standards in Europe and establishing some standards that will lead to this situation for Serbia to develop and for life to become much better in Serbia than in which it is currently living. We don't really have anything to do with it. However, this government also says that we simply do not want to rush to Europe, that there is no need to force something, because there is not much good living in Europe either. Europe too has problems and unemployment, etc. What's the point of all this when those two messages are analyzed? The point is that certain political messages are being sent, and these messages are clearly understood by extremists and apparently by the public as well as by what is really being done and what this government has been doing in the last hundred days. In these hundred days we have seen an additional weakness of institutions, which is certainly not a European standard, because the European standard is to live in a rule of law and to have strong institutions, strong parliament, a strong judiciary. Look how strong this House is. For the past hundred days, this parliament has been discussing some amendments and additions to the already existing laws of a truly marginal type. No law had reform capacity. No law had the ambition to change something in Serbia for the better. Parliament is reduced to a debate club. It works occasionally, very little and, as far as quality is concerned, we cannot boast that the results are some good, quality and progressive laws, because this is, in fact, the basic purpose of Parliament's existence, that the laws that will serve the general well-being of the entire people of a country are coming out of it. Is there any serious debate and procedure here? And that's what's on the line. Whenever a serious political issue is raised, the speaker simply interrupts, and this kind of communication stops between political parties, which should be dominant in one parliament. What can we say about justice? In these hundred days have you made any revolutionary changes that you so announced in terms of changing the state's relationship to the judiciary and the prosecution? I hadn't noticed that there have been positive changes, but it can be very easy to see how much justice reform is, which is what it is, but at least it's started, to what extent it's compromised. A compromised judiciary can only fabricate even greater compromises and further endanger the rule of law. As far as the extremists are concerned, the culture minister started a very interesting practice, which is rooting in the 1990s, when that list of unwanted cultural workers was made, so the shooting list. We know what these lists looked like in the '90s, and what were the consequences of all such lists, where they were actually publishing who should be removed, who should be removed, even physically, in order to preserve a certain power, in order to preserve a certain regime and a certain policy that has put Serbia back in 100 years at least. Today's extremists listen very well and realize that this is their moment, so they've made a list of unsuitable NGOs. I will read to you just a few of these NGOs that are on the list and which are designed for anathemisation, so to throw a certain fatva at people who have installed their careers and their lives to civilize this society in Serbia and to actually help the life of an average citizen in Serbia. Remember in the '90s how life was lived and who was the man of a life of a positive and quality. These are, say, the Helsinki Committee for Human Rights, Amnesty International, the Centre for Cultural Decontamination, the "Sandstone", the "Exit", the Youth for Human Rights Initiative, the "Quiet Center", the Citizens' Initiative, the "Gay-Strate Alliance". Are these NGOs, in fact, the biggest obstacle to the rebirth, the development of this society and this state and to the turn of the current policy in Serbia? I can tell you that's not true. Therefore, when we are discussing agreements that are concluded with neighbouring countries and with countries with which we want to have good relations, it must be said first and foremost whether we really want good relations within our country, whether we want good relations with both the civil sector and all the institutions that operate in this country, whether the function and role of an institution of this state, such as the judiciary, is to watch on the side of the media hack and the media fight against corruption and organised crime, whether the role of the judiciary is to observe the Spanish series about who we are today, tomorrow, in a week's arrest. That is the word used most, which is the dominant in Serbia over the past few months. It's not the right thing to do for corruption and against organized crime. The real fight is when institutions do so, when institutions have the integrity to fight corruption and organised crime, which have endemic character, system character in Serbia, and it cannot be left to one man, one person, one political option. It's a common struggle of the entire state through institutions. Otherwise, everything will remain at the declarative level, at the level of the affair, and nothing else will be achieved. So, strengthening institutions and parliament and the judiciary, here you go and work. Here you go, then write down the laws. You're passing the laws to this House. Don't let us split agreements, ratify agreements into several groups to do something in this House. Let's do something serious, let's roll up your sleeves. Let's at least show in some way that you want to keep your pre-election promises, or it's just gonna stay on promises.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4718	The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4719	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, as well as Mrs. Popovic, I believe that these contracts that we are discussing today are a prerequisite for a successful fight against corruption and crime at regional level, in addition to the measures that each country individually takes on its own internal agenda. This is not the first agreement in this area to be ratified by the Assembly. If I'm not mistaken, so far we've adopted, ratified these contracts and with more or less all the countries in the region in the area of justice, in co-operation both in criminal matters and in civil matters. It seems to me that with these four agreements we complete this co-operation at regional level. As far as the DSS is concerned, we support every form of fight against corruption and organised crime, at regional level and in general, because in the geographical geostrategic sense of the Balkans is one geopolitical hub. It represents a transit zone for illegal goods and services and has a very specific role in the world of organised crime, and that is why we support these laws, because we believe that the largest routes of organised crime go right across this territory. When we talk about organised crime at regional level or at Balkan level, then it is primarily about production and drug trafficking, counterfeit money, weapons and human trafficking. According to Interpol, on the famous Balkan heroin route, on the road from Asia Minor, across the Balkans, to Europe, about 80 tonnes of drugs are transported illegally annually. The smuggling centre is in Kosovo and Metohija, where there are warehouses of goods where these large packages coming from Afghanistan, or where they are from, are repacked into small packages and are sent from there and continue their journey to Europe. For example, a kilo of high-priced heroin costs about $15,000 if bought in Afghanistan, but if it passes the road from Afghanistan via Turkey, Bulgaria, Macedonia, to Kosovo and when it goes to Europe, it is sold in Germany for $50,000 per kilogram. It is clear that Kosovo cannot be the hub of organised crime that there are no extremely strong links between the criminal clans and the so-called. Kosovo's state structure. With regard to what we are discussing today, which is the agreement with Macedonia, we see that Macedonia is on the path of illegal drug trafficking, and if all of this adds to the fact that 90% of the perpetrators in Macedonia represent members of the Albanian national minority, then it is clear that on the way to preventing these phenomena, regional co-operation cannot help us, but that co-operation must be on the international level. Speaking of an agreement with Macedonia, if we are already talking about this regional co-operation, I must look back at something that is the minister of justice, and I am sorry that he is here with us today, because I could open the controversy with him in this regard, said a few days ago at the Western Balkans Forum in Tirana, that we as a state are seeking to introduce a regional arrest warrant, more specifically for the adoption of a convention that would make a regional arrest warrant possible. The fact is that the extradition procedure today is very complicated, it is complex. It is burdened by many administrative barriers, but we cannot talk about a regional arrest warrant institute as an ideal institute, especially if we know what is happening in countries that have a European arrest warrant, I am primarily talking about EU countries. Here I have to say that I have a certain kind of reserve, when it comes to the introduction of this institute, because unfortunately it will not be possible, that co-operation will not be possible in any particular case. If we look at the experience of countries that apply and in whose legal systems there is a European arrest warrant, then we see that it is applied to about 30 crimes that are not equally or equally defined in all EU Member States. That's why there's a big problem in applying that arrest warrant. It also refers to criminal offences which are defined as criminal offences in one Member State alone, and in another Member State, they are not criminal offences. The European arrest warrant must be carried out, even when a citizen of a Member State of the EU has committed a criminal offence, and this crime, that is, is not incriminating as such in its legislation. So what do we come up with? We come under the influence of disabling our own domestic legislation, our own legal system for faster, more efficient interstate co-operation. I think he should be very careful here. If we return the story to regional level now, then we see that criminal legislation, the case works, Serbia-Montenegro differs in many ways. In Montenegro, an example of crimes committed by abuse of official position is not incriminating, it is decriminalised and does not exist as a criminal offence, while it is a crime in Serbia. Let's also look at the situation in Republika Srpska and between Serbia. In Republika Srpska, criminal preparations for committing a crime are punishable, while the Serbian preparations are incriminating and they are not a criminal offence. A logical question arises – will Montenegro, for example, hand over its citizen to Serbia if Serbia is charged with abuse of its official position in the basic form, which is not a crime in Montenegro? We're going to come up with a very absurd situation, and that's why I'm asking you, if we're already going out with initiatives for a regional arrest warrant, that the whole procedure regarding this has to be very good, let me say, to the extremes clearly defined, so that we don't come into a situation where the whole institute isn't applicable at all. I think that, if we're already going out with it, the assumption of making one such convention must be, primarily, absolutely to the perfection of a good knowledge of the criminal laws of all the countries of the region. Finally, I repeat once again, the DSS advocates and supports every form of fight against organised crime and corruption, especially at regional level, respecting and starting with how important it is. I warn you, primarily, that this excessive enthusiasm in establishing good neighbourly relations, in a context that exceeds the scope of today's debate, but in the context of what the government is doing today, it can put us in a situation, God forbid, but I say that today we sign this kind of agreement with Kosovo. It's something that represents a certain scenario if the government continues to work as it has so far. It's something the DSS will never support, it's something that's gonna make you have the biggest and most fierce opponent in the DSS, and I'm afraid that's more than certain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4720	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4721	The Serbian Renewal Movement and the DHSS pledged not only to this government but to all governments after 2000, that everything that really is a reform move or directed towards good regional co-operation or on the path of European and Euro-Atlantic integration would support, without any vanity. In these 100 days of government work, we have a situation that reminds me largely of the large DOS coalition that has promised major changes and reform changes in our society, however, the changes have largely been lagging behind and were largely marketing and media, so that the price of the absence of these changes has been paid by all the parties that ruled after 2000, and most of the citizens of Serbia. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the DHSS will support these agreements with the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Slovenia, because we are absolutely aware that the Balkans, largely, remains the black spot of Europe in terms of corruption and crime. Of course, the regional fight against corruption and crime is something that SPO and DHSS absolutely support. Of course, the Balkans at the black European point remains largely an area where large drug trafficking, arms, trafficking of white slaves, etc. and one who would not support agreements of this kind, he would legitimateise himself against this kind of struggle. What we had so far, and what came from the government of the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately, were not some law that promised a great reform character and I would agree with my colleague, Judith Popovic, if it were really time for the government to roll up the sleeves. It's been a hundred days, there's been a lot of promises, a lot of media dust, but there are concrete results left behind. Today he's here in front of the government, unfortunately, only the Minister of Agriculture. I would take advantage of only one sentence of the opportunity to tell you, Mr. Minister, that everything that is related to improving the situation of the fallen Serbian economy will surely be supported. I see there's a little more money in the budget for agriculture, but it doesn't seem enough. I must tell you that in Serbia, since we already have 200 empty villages, if you do nothing to improve demographic policy, in the next four years, that number, if nothing radically better is done, will deteriorate. Agriculture is as it is on its knees, largely abandoned, and for the state it remains our largest export business branch. Anything that goes that way, the SPO will support it. There's no Justice Minister here today either. On one occasion, I also told the Secretary of State, since the Minister of Justice has not yet been seen here, and major changes have been promised in the judiciary, major reforms in the judiciary. To a large extent, this government's black-wrapped everything the previous governments have done. I don't think that's good, and that kind of black white looks at this period of 12 years isn't good. Shouldn't forget when he was Justice Minister Mr. Vladan Batic, he did something that seemed amazing to people in the judiciary -- he returned dignity to the judicial profession. Judges, to Prime Minister Vladan Batic, had salaries of perhaps 100 or 200 marks at the time and were believed to be women of wealthy men and incompetent men. Mr. Vladan Batic promised, in addition to all the other good things he did in reforming our judiciary, to increase the salary of judges and prosecutors to 1000 marks then. No one believed that this could be achieved, and it was achieved, and besides everything else, not only to improve the material and technical conditions of the work of our judiciary, the prosecution, but also to form a special prosecutor's office and a court for organised crime, for war crimes. A lot of the system and reform laws that the previous government has passed, and that's something that we seem, well, certainly not enough, but I would therefore suggest to this government that all that has been really well done in the past 12 years, that it no longer runs a media campaign that this is all bad. We see that out of these 700 and some of the unselected judges and prosecutors, this government, namely the Serbian Supreme Court and the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors, 300 and some of the judges and prosecutors were not returned to work, which means that the re-election was largely based on some objective basis, despite the fact that there was certainly politics. What we would like from the SPO is the same thing that all the political parties that the state institutions take seriously, is that really everything that has to do with politics, we eliminate from our judiciary and that the institutions of the system really live, in the right sense of that word. What we have seen in these 100 days, unfortunately not only contributes greatly to the strengthening of our institutions, but it seems to me that they are largely weak. In my best intention, I also told the prime minister not to send unpopular messages or about European integration, nor about Euro-Atlantic integration, nor about relations with the financial sector, international financial organisations, because as time goes by, it seems to me that the prime minister and the entire government understand the importance of spoken words and unpopular political messages, which can only in the internal public, which is happening, wake up some extreme groups and organisations that see their chance of their extreme and poor functioning with these messages. Anything that comes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this form like these agreements that are now on the agenda without any vanity we will support and all our efforts, all our discussions will not be marked only by our party colors. It will be marked above all by the interests of the state and the people and the pursuit of institutions. That is why I would have told the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, since in the last term this parliament voted somewhere around 780 laws that we have lost a lot of time, that so far in this high house we have not seen a single serious reform law, nor have we had a serious reform strategy, that the issue, four years has passed quickly, and in these few months we can say that it seems that if this parliament reaches the level of work of the previous parliament, that it will already be able to be seen as a success, because these few months shows a great lack in Parliament's work relative to previous synergy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4722	National MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4723	Dear President, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, the SPS will undoubtedly support the proposed laws, bearing in mind that the proposed legislation raises the quality of international co-operation in relation to legal traffic between contracting countries both in the area of civil and criminal law, particularly in the fight against organised crime, but also in other types of crime. At the same time, it's something that involves only extending previously-based contractual relations. Reminders for, 2004, the Republic of Serbia, and then the SCG had already concluded a contract with a completely identical name – an international legal aid agreement between the two Contracting States. Comparatively looking at these two contracts and carefully reading this legal text, it is a simple conclusion that this legal act significantly improves the quality of international legal assistance, thus making it possible for courts to be accessible both to the citizens of the Republic of Macedonia in the area of civil law. If we have in mind a fact that cannot be doubted, which is that it is a state that is borderline to our country, where in the closest environment there is a territory of Kosovo which is gravitating both Macedonia and Serbia, then we come to the conclusion that it simply imposes the inevitableness or need for such a legal act, as problems related to organised crime and multiplication of organised crime are generated through drug trafficking, narcotics and opiates, as well as human trafficking. That is why this need simply appears as something that is necessary for us. On the other hand, it should also be borne in mind the fact that the geographical position of the territory of the Serbian and Macedonian population's border and migration relative to the crossings, I am talking exclusively about the crossings of the state border where this is done as an optimal way of crossing the state border. All these citizens have the right, and in any case international conventions, they are granted the right and recognised, and ultimately the constitutions of these two countries to enjoy judicial protection. In what areas do they enjoy judicial protection? They enjoy civil matter, family, work, status and all other areas. Therefore, there is complete equality between the citizens of Macedonia and Serbia in enjoying judicial protection and at a lower level of observation of the full identity of the enjoyment of judicial authority between both natural and legal persons. What is very important is to point out that the most burdensome will be the courts and I think that Mr. Minister can pass on to the Registrar of Justice our assurances that our courts will, in this regard, have full capacity, especially from the aspects of professional references, that it is overwhelmingly acceptable to accept such matter because it is inevitable that there will be an increase in the case, since the legal acts also define the issue of imposing penalties that cannot be more stringent than those imposed by the judiciary who literally extradited the perpetrator of the crime. Then we must have a fully trained, educated judiciary, educated judges who will accept such cases and handle them in the best possible way. To the truth, these contracts are just being stimulated by what can be asked here by MPs or possibly citizens as questions – what about trials within a reasonable period, what about trials that involve quality efficiency, quality of judgments? It is these contracts that confirm that there will be no breach of the trial within a reasonable period of time, that the trials will be effective, that it will be as urgent as possible, as one of the provisions of these contracts is precisely speaking in this direction, that under the pleas made by either the state of Serbia towards the state of Macedonia or the other – the state of Macedonia towards the state of Serbia, the procedures must take place in an urgent and efficient manner. What is important for the execution of court decisions is the fact that our country is also taking care of the resociation of perpetrators, who are citizens of RS, and who have been prosecuted and even convicted in the Republic of Macedonia, can be far more effective in the process of resociation carried out in accordance with our positive regulations and in our criminal correctional institutions. This also applies in terms of reciprocity to citizens of the Republic of Macedonia. Therefore, in this respect, these two countries have found a unique interest, and this interest is precisely in the protection of both citizens of one country or another, and in the interest of their resociation, return to normal life, countries are taking certain measures and activities to effectively implement this resociation. Finally, what is also very important to point out in relation to this part of the legal act relating to international legal aid is also a burden of costs. What citizens need to recognise from these laws is the fact that the state of Serbia will not have the burden of costs associated with procedural actions in front of Macedonia's judicial authorities, but rather the burden of costs is passed on to those bodies that carry out the procedure. The same applies to other countries that are in this contractual relationship, the relationship of international co-operation. Only in case of breach of the sovereignty of the RS, to seek something that is contrary to the Constitution and contrary to the positive regulations, these contracts are also consistently clear because in this way one and the other states are protected, and this means that a request or a state's refusal to ask for something that implies a violation of legislation, a positive legal arrangement, and hence the sovereignty of the state. As far as the law confirming the enforcement of court decisions is concerned, they and they are in force. It is that criminal offences are discovered as effectively as possible, the perpetrators of criminal offences are prosecuted and the perpetrators of criminal offences are adequately punished. Those who have been punished, in the State Contracting Parties, may again be handed over to our country and execute a sentence in our country in the execution of judgments. The enforcement of court decisions, which entails a prescribed procedure under these provisions of the law, promotes the overprotection of both countries from organised crime. And in the end, what is important for the Law on the Extradition of Criminal Crimes, this was overly followed by what these legal acts impose on the compliance of certain standards and certain rules prescribed by Interpol. What is important for the Republic of Serbia in handing over the perpetrators of criminal acts is the fact that the perpetrators of the crimes are being extradited where the degree of social danger is increased. Why? Because it's very serious crimes, criminal acts that mean all the crimes that have been committed for over a year in prison. What is important to us, it is important to include in this way the perpetrators of crimes that constitute the most serious crimes, and particularly crimes in the field of organised crime, which are covered by these acts of law and according to which states are properly determined. We are witnesses daily to the extent and extent of such crimes. The colleague, Judith, rightly pointed to such behaviour, as happened in Spain where the most serious forms of crime related to narcotics, opiates, etc., which deserve, in any case, to be punished, or convicted, and in an adequate manner to be carried out through the process of resociation in accordance with the legal provisions that are now the point of the agenda. Anyway, we'll support these legal acts. The SPS believes that they are also important to the Republic of Serbia and supports the proponent in further activities and efforts to implement such legal acts as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4724	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) The word is Judita Popovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4725	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm looking at the benches of the SNS, otherwise I'm calling on Article 127 of Rule 2 and Article 107. Rules of Procedure, I don't see any MPs, but I do see parliamentary cards in individual benches without MPs. So the cards are in an electronic system without those MPs who should have these cards. You know, we hear about every day that the SNS intends to discipline parliament and MPs. So he intends to put order into this parliament. In my opinion, this is a serious violation of Parliament's integrity and humiliation, because it represents an essential lack of knowledge of the purpose, meaning and what is being done in parliament and what is the purpose of the debate in parliament. Parliament's eight-hour working hours, I don't think it can serve that noble purpose, which is why parliament exists. Therefore, if you insist on discipline, it would be good to make sure that your MPs discipline themselves, take care of their cards when they come out to take a walk and relax from this work in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4726	Thank you. I ask professional services to draw cards where there are no MPs. So, in this order where the position is, and where the opposition is, everywhere there are no MPs to draw the cards. Mr. Granny, on what grounds? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4727	I speak by article 106, but I also use the right to replicate. I thank my colleague, Judith, for the intervention. However, I would ask her to look the other way, because there are cards on the other side. I don't want to share Serbia. There's a lot of division in Serbia. As for the SNS and the introduction of order to parliament, I don't know why my colleague Judith, who brought to the debate, is disturbing the compromise of judicial reform, which is allegedly the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the rumours that such judicial reform has been very badly done, do not only come from the SNS, but also from the international community. I don't know why my colleagues Popovic are disturbing the arrests that take place in the Republic of Serbia and the fight against corruption and crime, and it didn't mind when one such action, in 2003, was personified through one man, and after that action thousands and thousands of people, who were unjustly processed, were compensated for this process. Therefore, order in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia will be introduced when we understand where we are, where we are sitting and why we have been delegated to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I would like to see the time SNS spends in the debate, as well as other parliamentary groups that are SNS coalition partners. The government of the Republic of Serbia has its goal, has its own path. One of the top priorities is the fight against corruption and crime and this cannot be stopped by anyone, not even one who has been paid by tycoons in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4728	Thank you. Mr. Djuric has the word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4729	Members 106 and 107 were injured. Rules of Procedure. First of all, he can't... (President: Article 106 advertised by Mr Babic. Yes, but I'm advertising another event. We've already discussed this. So it refers to an event. So, I guess we concluded that there was no use of the replica and violation of the Rules of Procedure at the same time, so Mr Babic spoke much wider than what Mrs Popovic reacted to. I think it's a tragic scene enough that Mr. Babic is talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and next to him there's a parliamentary unit in which the card stands. That's what we're talking about. We welcome the ambition to introduce order, but then set an example. So you will eventually have information about how many MPs have spent time in the O.R., but it will be incorrect. When the card stands in the hall, and the MP is not there, he's registered in the system as if he's here. In the end, it'll look like there's more time. Last week I said I didn't belong to those MPs who thought all MPs had to be in the O.R., but if their card was inserted, then they had to be in the O.R. or take the card with them. This is the obligation laid down in Article 127(1). The Rules of Procedure to which Parliament Popovic reacted. The second part of your injury to the Rules of Procedure consists of the notorious lie you've made. So there are no thousands of cases of people deprived of freedom in the 2003 Sabbe action that have charged the damages. That's a notorious lie. The damages were settled in several cases. That number, if I'm not mistaken, is a one-digit number, but anyway, it's not thousands of people. I ask you not to question, by your conduct, your performances in parliament, inevitably, fully established judicial facts. The country's courts, the country's highest courts, have decided on cases of arrest, deprivement of freedom and criminal acts that have been arrested and prosecuted for the most serious crimes, including the murder of the country's prime minister, have been sentenced to several decades in prison. I ask you vice presidents to take care of that when the MPs speak here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4730	I must confess to Mr. Đurić that in your presentation, it is not clear to me what part of it relates to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is on the line. I ask the Members of Parliament to explain only the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the future when they report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, to replicate if they report for replication. Mr. Granny, on what grounds? What replica? [[Zoran Babiæ, from place: Right to replica.]] On a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I am mentioned. He can't rephrase. We'll break that practice. We're moving on to the speaker's order to the list. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4731	Thank you. The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no intention of replicating, nor of commenting on what colleagues from other parliamentary clubs have been saying in the past 15-20 minutes, but we simply have at the very beginning and I would like to clarify, I hope that I will get that answer from you, too, I have a procedural question. I have a colleague at my side, Radenkovic, and I don't know how to answer the question he asked me, as far as the SPS Parliament Club is concerned. During this session, when a question was asked about who was in the O.R. or not, he had to go for the necessary consultation with a colleague from the DSS to his parliamentary benches. We have one question – should he carry a card with him or should he leave his card where he sits and sits in another assembly club, because there is no way he can sit with his fellow MPs? It's a procedural question I'd like to get an answer to. If he takes the card, and there's no way he can put that card in the MP's unit where a colleague from the DSS is sitting, then he's not in the session, and he's in the O.R. (President: Mr. Milicevic, please stick to the topic of the agenda. This is extremely important. As deputy head of the Parliament Club, I have no way of giving an answer to a colleague who came to ask me that question, so I'm simply asking that question, since we haven't yet defined the seating schedule in the O.R. There is time, and we will talk about judicial reform, and we will talk about the work of the Republic Parliament. Today we are talking about four agreements that are extremely important to us and I will say a few words about it, given that in previous discussions a lot has been said. Kola Jovanovic made it very clear, the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary club, that we will support all four proposed agreements in the voting day, i.e. the agreement and they are a precondition and a step forward in one successful fight against crime at regional level, a successful continuing fight at regional level, in addition to what Serbia has already done and is doing since the time of the constitution of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia at its internal level. They certainly raise quality, and there is Mr Jovanovic absolutely right and that is the attitude of the SPS parliamentary club, they raise the quality of interstate co-operation. The group of bilateral agreements that we are talking about today in the Republic Parliament is another step closer to improving this bilateral co-operation with both countries in the environment and with a number of countries with which we have traditional co-operation in the area of economy and in many other areas, in many other sectors. I will remain on bilateral contracts with the Republic of Macedonia. These three laws on the confirmation of a contract with the Republic of Macedonia relating to the area of legal aid are very important. These agreements practically replace agreements signed by the Serbia-Montenegro community with the Republic of Macedonia. It's about three agreements, three contracts. These are legal aid contracts in civil and criminal matters, extradition contracts and mutual enforcement of judicial decisions on criminal matters. As bilateral co-operation in different areas of economic and social life is growing between our country and the Republic of Macedonia, this will be further regulated by ratification of these agreements. In addition to traditionally good relations, I would say, which are not disputed, which are a fundamental reason for us to support these agreements with Macedonia, I think, on the other hand, these contracts are of particular interest to those municipalities in southern Serbia, such as Trgovište or Bujanovac. The south of Serbia is somehow leaning towards Skopje. A large number of citizens from southern Serbia have apartments, have property in Macedonia. A large number of citizens go to Macedonia daily, especially now that there is a possibility of entering the Macedonian area with a personal ticket. In some context, it creates certain risks. In Vranj, I had little opportunity to speak to a fellow MP from the MP's club, who comes from Vranj, in Vranj today there are about 200 Macedonian citizens who, on different grounds, come to Vranje. This makes the contract more essential, the agreement we're talking about today. I particularly single out an interstate contract with Macedonia on extradition because it, as it has already been said, precisely regulates the obligation and procedure of handing over citizens to seek one or the other signatories. Since Macedonia is one of the neighbouring countries, this aspect is very important, as very often perpetrators of crimes from one can seek refuge in another neighbouring country. This agreement will allow for faster and more efficient extradition procedures, which will contribute to one, as I have already said, a more effective fight against crime, not only in Serbia, but also in the region. Of course, no less importance do they have agreements on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters and on legal aid contracts in civil and criminal matters, with an extradition contract they make up a single continent which largely contributes to more effective judicial procedures, which is in the mutual interest of both Serbia and Macedonia. Also, it is a very important law to confirm the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, and that has already been the case. There was no such agreement between our country, and the need for such a single contract to regulate legal co-operation and procedures in the enforcement of judicial decisions in the area of exactly criminal law was shown. We believe and expect that this agreement will also contribute to an even more effective co-operation with the Republic of Slovenia in this area. We also want to believe that these agreements are one of the few issues on which consensus can be reached within the Republic of Parliament. Once again, at the very end, I want to say that the SPS MPs' club in voting day will support all four contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4732	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, let's finally get back to the agenda and discuss these four extremely important international legal aid agreements. I will try, as far as I can, in these few minutes to explain to the citizens and to ourselves how important these agreements are. I'm sure a lot of SNS MPs would have called next to me to discuss an interesting subject like this, but most of them are currently at board meetings. For example, at this point is a meeting of the Diaspora Committee. These international agreements will also have great significance for the diaspora, but for this reason, for example, seven, eight SNS MPs are not there, I am sure they would take part in the fact that they are not currently on very important diaspora tasks. Also, I know that before the session, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the assembly, wanted to take part in the discussion under these international agreements, but he is currently busy with very important international meetings, so he will not be able to do so. Also, several other SNS MPs are currently absent, and also for the reasons of certain meetings concerning finance and culture, so it turned out that I have to talk about these agreements, but I am sure that all other MPs, who are justly absent, would talk about these very important agreements for judicial reform, that they are present, but are not present, I repeat again, because of important international obligations. counterpart Neđo Jovanovic has already explained very well the importance of the agreement we are adopting today, especially on this civil side. I must stress that this is a major advance in international justice relations for the Republic of Serbia, these agreements will, in particular, contribute to a much better fight against organised crime and corruption. I particularly stress that both in the Macedonian and Slovenian agreements, the works of organised crime, the work of receiving and giving bribes and all the works for which the sentence is scheduled for more than four years in prison are particularly apostrophe. For the resociation of these agreements are very important because it allows transfer of convicts, for example, our citizen who is sentenced in Macedonia to a certain prison sentence can be transferred to serve in Serbia with a certain procedure and with his consent. This will be useful both for the family and for the rehabilitation, but also for the fight against organised crime, as this will allow its knowledge, knowledge of such a convict to be applied before domestic courts. I would like to stress that in the fight against organised crime, under these agreements, Interpol will play a very important role, with which direct co-operation is envisaged. Finally, we should point out, we do not want to hide it, that these agreements date back to 2011, that there was no desire or simply no time to put them on the agenda. To conclude, as far as the agreement is concerned, the agreements will contribute greatly to the fight against organised crime and are only proof of continued co-operation in international legal assistance between Serbia and neighbouring countries. Of course, I also thank Mrs Judith and LDP MPs for their constructive criticism. I am pleased that both LDP MPs are present at this session, as many as are likely to remain after the internal collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4734	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Mile Spirovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4735	The Honorable Presidency, respected ministers and members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this is the first time I've spoken to you in this highly respected home, so I hope you won't mind if you feel the excitement in my voice. This excitement is not caused by my personal promotion, but by the fact that the Macedonian national community in the Republic of Serbia for the first time received its political representative in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, in the image of the Democratic Party of Macedonians as a party of the national minority within the "Let's Start Serbia" coalition, who will know that it is articulating the needs of its community, but also other communities and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party of Macedonians, within the framework of the SNS parliamentary club, welcomes the adoption of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on Extradition, the Law confirming the Treaty of these two States on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, as well as the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters. By confirming these contracts, signed on 29 and 30 November 2011, the new government wants to demonstrate its readiness and accept all that is good and quality and of interest to all citizens of Serbia and to build the region's best-quality relations. The improvement of the overall relations between the Contracting States, aware of the need to further improve international co-operation in the area of justice, and in order to achieve the rights and interests of their countries and citizens more effectively, in order to develop relations between mutual trust and co-operation in the area of legal traffic in criminal cases, is of interest both to the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Slovenia. The Democratic Party of Macedonians in this act recognises and welcomes the need for new authorities to further integrate with the countries of the region and the need to create a rule of law and the rule of law, which I hope we are all seeking in this House. Once a people, and now a national minority more numerous than the censuses show, the Macedonian national community is one of the most lost by the tragic decay of our former common state. The Democratic Party of Macedonia is particularly interested in becoming a member of the EU as soon as possible, because for us European integration is the only civilized road that would allow us to reintegration into a democratically organised society without changing borders and with their maximum pass. Only in a democratically decorated society, where the force of rights is stronger than the right of force, national communities and citizens of the Republic of Serbia can find security and prosperity. The desire to develop co-operation in the area of legal assistance, and in order to achieve the rights and interests of its nationals, the Contracting States are visible in Article 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters, where it is written - the citizens of one Contracting State enjoy the territory of another Contracting State the same legal protection of their personal and property rights as its own citizens, as well as in the position of the 2nd Member State that reads - the nationals of one Contracting State have free access to courts and other bodies in the territory of another State. They can represent their interests, file demands and take actions under the same conditions as their own citizens. The provisions of Article 1 and 2 of this Article shall also apply to legal persons established in accordance with the laws of the Contracting State on whose territory their seat is located. In Article 19(1) of the same law, the citizens of one Contracting State shall, when they appear before the courts of another State, enjoy the exemption from the payment of court fees and expenses, as well as free legal aid during the proceedings under the same conditions and in the same scope as its own nationals. Article 22 of this Act guarantees that public documents issued by the competent authorities of one Contracting State will have the same evidence force as domestic public documents before the authorities of another Contracting State. Article 23 of the same law guarantees that Contracting States will supply each other with copies of the parent books, as well as judicial decisions relating to the personal status of nationals of another Contracting State, excluding fees and costs. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the Macedonian National Union and the Democratic Party of Macedonians as its political envoy supports the adoption of these legislative proposals. Also, the SNS parliamentary group, whose part we are, will vote in the voting day for the adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4736	Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović-Vukojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4737	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, contracts signed by the Republic of Serbia with the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Slovenia, also represent important international agreements in the field of justice and in order to protect the rights and interests of the states more effectively, as well as the rights and interests of citizens. These contracts are also significant in one coordinated action and the fight against organised crime and corruption, as well as money laundering. Organized crime and corruption do not know the borders, so international agreements with this aspect are both of a strong fight against organised crime and corruption and how significant they are. First of all, I'd like to base myself on the Treaty of Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, for the reason that I've recognized somewhere that they are the most relevant to citizens, and in that sense, I'd like to say something more. Civil matters include items relating to status, family, work, business, property-legal relations of physical and legal entities. Criminal matters include cases relating to criminal acts, economic crimes and offences. Legal aid is certainly provided by courts, but also by other state authorities in accordance with their regulations, such as centres for social work, and everything depending on the nature of the subject. Legal assistance shall be examined in the provision of information, in the delivery of cases, in the taking of procedural actions concerning insight, search, skill, making statements, but of course also in the application of certain measures such as, e.g. the measure of controlled delivery. Legal assistance is also being examined in the decision-making of court and arbitration. Of course, legal aid is provided in the form of a request. Legal aid shall be provided in accordance with the rules of the requested State, and in some cases it may, in accordance with what is required in the request, unless the legal order of the requested State is disrupted. What is important for citizens to know is that public documents issued by courts, public notebooks, perpetrators, and other state bodies providing legal assistance in accordance with the regulations, if certified by official stamp and signature, have the power of public documents and can be used in front of the authorities of other countries. What the Contracting States, the Republic of Serbia and Macedonia also agreed, is the delivery of criminal records for nationals of other countries and these performances are being delivered within six months. The copies of the birth certificate and the judicial decision shall be delivered by the Contracting States within three months, and the copy of the death certificate shall be delivered immediately. Of course, only two circumstances are provided for in this Treaty when legal aid is not provided. These are two circumstances and they relate to the fact that the work referred to in the plea is not a criminal offence for the requested State, of course by law, although the requested state has the opinion that the work is from a political or military domain and in that case the application is rejected. Of course, other contracts relating to the extradition of citizens, and it is about extradition exclusively to acts of organised crime, corruption and money laundering, and how important they are in the struggle and determination of the Serbian state to connect with other countries, above all to its neighbours, in order to make this fight as effective as possible. It is also a law relating to the enforcement of criminal sanctions and how it is important for the citizens of our country who are citizens or who are resident in our country for the purpose of assessing that the rehabilitation in our country will certainly be more efficient and complete, and starting from the principle of humanity. The Serbian Progressive Party has no dilemma regarding the vote, i.e. the confirmation of contracts that are primarily legally founded, which are meaningful, justified and useful. For both the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4738	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4739	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to begin by saying hello to the Minister of Agriculture. We farmers, farmers, are always the most valuable, regardless of the season and the Polish works and the plowing that is under way, we always find time and time to come to the Assembly and spend a lot of time in it. I would therefore like to express my gratitude to the Minister of Agriculture because he has found time to represent the Government of the Republic of Serbia despite the fact that, I am aware of that, and that he has problems in view of the season that is under way and given the situation which has remained behind the former regime where many of the obligations that the ministry needs to settle. Plus these papers that are part of the current work this year. Secondly, I must say immediately that I am appalled at the remarks about the weak presence of MPs from the SNS Parliament Club. I must also say, as an example, that at the last vote, when we voted, we voted on a law proposed by an opposition MP. To my astonishment the total number of his MPs from his 50-something MP group, they spoke of it, and therefore I must answer, that although we voted on their law, there were only a dozen of them, and we voted in favour of the law proposed by the opposition. So much for our presence and our good will to participate in the work. To my astonishment as soon as the law was passed, that MP took out the card and was no longer interested in any work in parliament. As for other remarks on these cards, I must also say that I was a participant from 2002 to 2003, and the boss of that lady was most busy with these cards, and it's common knowledge and these affairs are known throughout our country, and also a little wider. Thank you. Of course, the Law on Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the State of Palestine and the Government of the Serbian State on the avoidance of Double Taxation is on the agenda. Of course, that law has also proposed the former regime, and I personally want them not to be double taxed, but I'm personally afraid they're not taxed once, let alone twice. We will certainly confirm the contracts to prove the seriousness of this state, all the international agreements they signed, and thus this. But speaking of Palestine, let's see who put us in the position of the Palestinian people. Is that the former regime? I say it is. I'm afraid that with some inferior policy, not to mention the subjective policy, today we were brought into a position once held by the people of Palestine. The people of Palestine have long had no state of their own, and thanks to the former regime we are almost in position...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4740	Mr. Risticevic, just to warn you, we are not discussing Palestine right now, but Macedonia and Slovenia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4741	What about Palestine? No, that'll be next. I'm sorry. I thought Palestine too, given that you've united six, seven points.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4742	That's our next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4743	So there's no Algeria? Okay, Algeria was very interesting since it was an incentive to invest, and that was very interesting. As far as Macedonia and Slovenia are concerned, we have this left over on criminal matters and I will welcome it regardless of what the former regime has proposed. So, I'm going to say hello because the crime in the Balkans has become international. By detaching the former republics of the SFRY, by creating new states and our criminals and their criminals have become internationals. Unlike the authorities, unlike politicians, they joined together for ten years before joining the former Yugoslav republics in the Balkans and hopefully firmly resolved to prosecute the crime. What worries me is that the former regime has seen little of these criminals. It's a public secret that we had criminals like the Legion who had several passports from the former Yugoslav republics. It's a well-known fact, and I'm afraid we should put this fact into these agreements. Since former regime officials have looked up to criminals who were to be persecuted today, we have former high-ranking officials who have several passports from the former Yugoslav republics. So I ask myself and you, if we are persecuting criminals who have more passports, does this also apply to officials, or to almost the highest government officials who have two or more passports from the former Yugoslav republics? It is almost amazing that in the event of the persecution of this type of crime, and it will certainly come about by changing power, that these former officials can legally leave this country and that the two passports include two citizenships, even two citizenships from the countries of the former Yugoslav republics with which we do not have dual citizenship agreements, that such top state officials of the former regime can legally or illegally enter those countries and not be extradited to this country since they have citizenship in which, God forbid, they escape. I would certainly welcome the integration of the former Yugoslav republics, but we should also consider some of our dignity. We need to remember that as a small nation, we have helped everyone else to free themselves, and now it will be 100 years from these events. Later, all these nations created their own native republics, and I don't think they would have created them if we, as one small, great nation, had not allowed ourselves and others to be freed. Today we are in a position that some of our neighbors whom we helped to create their own country almost deny us. We gave them almost everything, and they're denying us anything today. I don't want to, since they've all separated from the SFRY, created their own countries, their national states, and they expect us to remain the SFRY, I don't want us to stay in that position that the former regime has brought us into, and instead of being one sovereign state, sovereign territory, to be the rest of the SFRY and to treat us like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4744	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? I am concluding a joint single search on: Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on legal aid in civil and criminal matters; Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters; Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on extradition; Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters. After we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the bill's proposals. We move to the next item of the agenda, this is a joint single search on the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Palestine on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes and the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria on mutual incentive and protection of investments, that is, the 6th and 7th points of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 6 and 7 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you, to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. The time of the debate by the parliamentary groups you got in the material. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Palestine on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes and the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria on mutual incentive and protection of investment. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. Mr. Ljajic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4745	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have two draft laws, two ratifications to be exact. One, as you have heard, is the confirmation of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria on mutual incentive and investment protection, and another agreement, concerning the avoidance of double taxation with Palestine. It's about two type-approvals. The Republic of Serbia has concluded 49 agreements on avoidance of double taxation and negotiations are under way, some in the final phase on the conclusion of another twenty such agreements and a similar situation is in the context of a mutual incentive and investment protection agreement. The objectives of one agreement and another is to create a legal basis for improving, above all, economic and economic co-operation with countries for which we have mutual interest. I will say a few words very briefly about the agreement with Algeria, a very important agreement for Serbia, given the potential, economic and economic co-operation with this country. The agreement was otherwise signed in February of this year, during the meeting of the Mixed Committee on Economic Co-operation between the two countries. At that meeting, among other things, areas where there are potentials for developing economic co-operation with this country are defined. These are primarily agriculture, construction, pharmaceutical industry and health care. True, the volume of trade between Serbia and Algeria is not great. Last year it was about $4.8 million, but investment is, above all, important, our investments and our works in Algeria. Currently in Algeria, the "Yugoimport" SDPR, which concluded a contract to build three ammunition production factories worth 400m euros, then the "Energoproject" that has been present for the last 30 years on the Algeria market, as well as "Hydrotechnicals", which has also been performing works for many years and has been present on this market. After a meeting of the Mixed Committee or just before 2009, we have been intensifying bilateral economic co-operation with this country, so today we have the first joint, mixed companies, Serbian-Algiers, such as "Hydrotechnika" concluded a contract with the Algerian firm "Hydrotechnik". Also present in this market are the Užica Roads, which have concluded a 15m-euro contract, as well as the Michael Pupin Institute, which is interested in the area of traffic, the construction of a traffic system on highways in Algeria. I'm saying all this because of the fact that this agreement is significant from the point of view of protecting our investors in Algeria. The agreement also guarantees international protection with the arbitration court in the event of possible disputes. However, what is particularly important, which I would like to point out in the end, as regards this agreement, which the Algerian government adopted the 2010-2014 Action Plan, where 268 billion euros were allocated for different investments in the area of infrastructure and there is, in fact, a great chance for our companies that have worked so far, or for new companies that can appear on the market Algeria and so much this agreement is significant for us. Therefore, not only because of current and current investments and the businesses our companies are carrying out, but also possibly future strategic partnerships with companies and companies from Algeria itself. As for the agreement to avoid double taxation with Palestine, I must say that those who spoke on the board are right that we do not have a large volume of trade in goods with Palestine. Last year, our symbolic export of $84,000, import was two three thousand. It is now small, but what is significant from the point of view of the agreement, these are potential investments in Serbia by certain companies in Palestine. We are just creating the basis that, not only the volume of trade in goods, but the mutual investment is significantly greater with this agreement. The plan is to sign, i.e. the conclusion of an incentive and protection agreement, also an investment with this country, as well as the conclusion of a roof agreement on economic - trade co-operation with Palestine. Therefore, from the point of view of the current scale of economic and economic relations, probably someone will say that this agreement is of no importance, but from the point of view of potential investment, investment is just creating a basis for improving economic and economic co-operation with Palestine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4746	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4747	As authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4748	It's still early. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4749	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Minister Ljajic, representatives of the Government, regarding this item of the agenda, I will refer to this first law, i.e. on the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Algeria, related to the promotion and protection of investments. So, before I say anything about this agreement, it would be good to meet the citizens of Serbia with whom we make bilateral agreements, to tell you something about the state of Algeria. So, the Republic of Algeria is the second largest country in Africa, you have 35 million inhabitants. Among other things, the 27-year-old population average has 11 million working people, who make up and represent an extremely good assumption for the country's development, such as Algeria, since Algeria is a developing country, its economy is also in expansion. When it comes to their economy, we must point out that Algeria is based on its economy and its economy in the petrochemical industry, given that Algeria's gas reserve is the tenth in the world and gas exports are the sixth in the world, and that it is 16 places per oil reserve. In that sense, he is also the largest oil exporter from that space. So what I was going to say is, when it comes to this industry, the Algerian industry is that the country's GDP, as I said the economy in expansion and since it was a high price of oil and gas in the previous period, they have also improved their macroeconomic assumptions, i.e. macroeconomic indicators, so the 2011 GDP for Algeria was 264 billion, which is around 7,200 per capita. What's important for us is that they most import, first of all, agricultural products, 60% of cereals import from Europe where our chance is, since we are a agricultural country and since we can take that agricultural goods to the Algerian market. Also, what's important to point out for Algeria is that they don't have a developed auto-industry and that they're importing about 2.3 billion cars and car parts, which is also our chance, since we've brought "Fiat" to these areas, where we can export our products. What characterizes Algeria's economy is that inflation is 4% at this point, that industrial production growth is about 4.8% and unemployment is 9.8% of the total population it has in Algeria. Otherwise, what we must point out is that the co-operation between Serbia and Algeria is not on one high level, although we have a surplus in this trade, and it is a good opportunity that, after the conclusion of this contract, our economic operators are on the market for Algeria. Otherwise, it should be noted that in 2009, the biggest exports were about 22m euros, with only 100,000 imports, and exports were around 21.9m. However, all these contracts were signed during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, most of those contracts and came to be realised in 2009. The previous government did not work to realise the project and improve relations between Serbia and Algeria, so we heard, Mr. Minister, that last year there was an exchange of around 4.8m, and in the first nine months of this year about 12m euros. If we compare this to the previous period of the 1980s when the former state of SFRY was present in Algeria and Algeria was our biggest strategic partner in African countries, then we can talk about a $500m trade number between Serbia and Algeria, but after the former state fell apart, Serbian business entities did not manage the market. As we have said, this treaty provides for Serbia to be a privileged nation when it comes to protecting and encouraging our investors, and that should be used. In addition, this contract, apart from these economic performances, sends one political message, which is a political message for this government that the government must seek new markets, is not the EU's only market for Serbia, or the EU market is the only market for Serbia's economy. In fact, third-world countries, such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, South Africa, whose economies are developing, need to work together with them, should look for a market in these areas for our economic operators. So, about the EU and the EU market, we were just talking about it yesterday, because of the unilateral implementation of the Stabilisation Agreement, Serbia lost about $600m in four years, and this is a large sum for our budget and for the fragile economy and the economy of Serbia. Therefore, these contracts are necessary to Serbia, given that Algeria is a friendly country, a country that has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija, a developing country, a third-world country and I assume that this government and some future governments will also seek the possibility of transposing the way for our economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4750	Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4751	Turns out only the DSS is interested in the third market and in co-operation with Algeria. Today we have two agreements on the agenda. I will talk about an agreement between the Serbian government and the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria on mutual incentive and protection of investment. As Mr. Pejcic said, in Serbia there is relatively little knowledge of Algeria. It is a large country, has 36, 37 million inhabitants, rich in oil, natural gas and other raw materials, the Mediterranean country, us friendly, because of relations with individual EU countries, primarily because of the wealth in oil and gas with a very large, from the point of view of Serbia, GDP and very much in the mood to co-operate with Serbia. When we talk about economic co-operation, we need to see what resources we have. These agreements are always good, but the interest of each government, especially developing countries, with problems like Serbia today, is to make maximum use of all the potentials that a particular market has. The interest is that this is not left with a dead letter on paper, but to make the most of the opportunities that these arrangements give us. For the first nine months of this year, Serbia's exports are about 6.5 billion euros, and Serbia's imports are about 10.8 or almost 11 billion euros and again, trade deficits are 4.5 billion for the first nine months. This is an increase of 8% compared to the previous year and it is obvious that imports are growing again uncontrollably and exports have a certain limit. It is important to look at what are our most important parameters, or partners, when it comes to importing and exporting, to see where Serbia's position is. I say, it's all important to know how we can use the potentials that Algeria offers, and I suppose Mr Ljajic knows perfectly well that we have long-term co-operation with Tunisia, Libya and other countries of the region. We import the most from Germany, a billion and a half euros this year, and the Russian Federation a billion and 400m euros in the first nine months, Italy, China and Hungary. Our most important export partners are Germany where we exported almost a billion euros, BiH 800m euros, Italy a little less, Romania about 700m, and the Russian Federation with 600m. These are the most important partners when it comes to both imports and exports. It's important to mention two things. There are very few regions and countries with which Serbia records a trade surplus. These are CEFT countries where Serbia records a billion euros in surpluses, and Algeria is one of the few countries with which Serbia has 10 times more exports than imports. It's sometimes not good when you have such imbalances in co-operation, but in any case, it's a positive example. What we don't have is the structure of Serbia's GDP. Agriculture affects Serbia's wealth with little more than 9%, and industry and construction at around 22%. Services at this point in Serbia are affecting 54%, trade, real estate, and unfortunately trade cannot be exported. When we talk about financial services, at least when it comes to Serbia, it is not an object that can be exported. We are limited to agriculture, to industrial production, and of course it is a fundamental issue when we talk about such things, where is Serbia's development chance? This agreement is a great thing, but provided that Serbia has the capacity to have the will to take advantage of it. The main problem is Serbia's development. The question if we find a model for Serbia's development, if we find a model to take advantage of this agreement, then by the nature of things, the public debt problem will be resolved, the budget deficit will be resolved, social policy, which Mr Ljajic dealt with in the previous four years in the past government, will be the result of these positive movements. The basic question is development. Can Serbia produce cheaper products than China? Can he make a nicer product than Italy? Can he make a more technologically perfect product than Germany? The IMF is here today, so it's a key topic for all journalists. The IMF has been conditioned as an international bankruptcy manager. You don't knock at his place until all your doors are closed. When you can't open any more doors to any financial institutions, then you go to the IMF. He's acting like one. He doesn't care how you develop, he wants to know how you pay him back the money you borrowed. I guess we're all in this market economy room. In the market economy, we can talk about what the state doesn't need to do. What does the state have to do? The state has to make arrangements like this and it has to open the door for these arrangements. Speaking of Serbia and Algeria's co-operation, unfortunately, I must say that so far has been a missed chance with Serbia. I think this is a widely missed opportunity for the placement of Serbian products and for the development of construction and Serbian industry. Our co-operation, at least the foreign ministry, said the total exports last year were 4.6m euros. We're talking about exporting goods. This is practically negligible compared to Serbia's total exports, which is around 8 billion euros per year. Serbia exported to Algeria medicines and other pharmaceutical products, exported transformers, and construction firms were present, above all "Energoproject" and "Hydrotechnicals". "Hydrotechnics" is very present in Tunisia. In recent years, SDPR, Roads and Unity has appeared. Mr. Ljajic, I'm glad you're here today, I think it's an internal redistribution in the government, that this matter is in charge of the Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, not the Minister of Economy, I think you failed to say that in 2001 you are the most responsible representative, so you told me, the president of the then-SRJ, Kostunica, that you were the first to make a buckle with Algeria and that you first brought the good news from Algeria. Of course, there were many problems at the time, and Serbia quickly missed that chance, because, respecting EU policy, it introduced visas to the citizens of Algeria. After that, as a reciprocal measure, visas came to Serbian citizens. If you want to have good economic co-operation, you have to have good and political co-operation. There are rare cases in the world that poor political co-operation results in good economic co-operation. That's rarely recorded. In 2009, I had the opportunity to visit Algeria with the then president of the Assembly. We had an extremely useful meeting with then Prime Minister Ahmed Mujahid. It's rare to meet a man on such a high level to be so familiar. So it wasn't his advisors who spoke, it was him himself. He knew the economic situation in Serbia to detail. He told us they have this five-year development plan, because they have problems in certain parts of Algeria. They have a five-year plan worth $280 billion. They were very in the mood for Serbian firms to invest, or perform works in Algeria, and to invest funds in Serbia. He said – give the projects, we are in the mood to talk about the specific modes of co-operation and to get into co-operation as soon as possible, because we need these things urgently, because we have serious problems that we have to solve from now on. As the most effective result of co-operation, the 2010 football game was played, where half the government was at, you know. Of all the possible elements of co-operation, we can only talk about some crumbs that have actually been realized. Serbia won 3-0, as a colleague asks what the score was. When you look at the foreign ministry site, the greatest attention is that a football game was played, that there were 60,000 viewers and that Serbia won 3-0 and that the audience was extremely friendly. It's a great thing, but we need these kind of agreements so our companies can use the facilities of Algeria, build railroads, numerous residential settlements, infrastructure facilities, dams and everything else. The companies present there are primarily the Energy Project and Hydrotechnics. The Energy Project has serious problems. Small shareholders warn they're trying to take over the company hostilely. On the one hand, you recommend small construction companies that can work in the world at the moment, but if you recommend the Energy Project, everyone in the world today has the Internet. If there are problems with such a company, of course investors from Algeria will see that such problems exist. It's a big question of what their chances of development are. Hydrotechnics is a company that has been privatized, so there have been problems in the privatisation process, so privatisation has been annulled. It's a company that for many years, I don't know what the current situation is, if we're talking about today, but the account in Serbia has been blocked, and the company has done a great job abroad and has not come across any support from the government to solve their problems. They didn't ask for any subsidies. They did not seek subsidies to create new jobs. They did not ask for any help, except that the state, which is the total owner of the company, solves their problem, and they have jobs and have excellent references in Tunisia, Algeria and the whole region. In that region, 20 dams have been built in the last 30 years with a huge foreign exchange inflow for our country. The state must stand behind our economy. This agreement is a great thing, but economics can't do it alone. When the American president travels, he runs several planes of businessmen with him on every international visit. Our country must stand behind our economy. If we're talking about construction, we have to do everything we can to make a few strong firms. They can't be created spontaneously. The building can build 10 Blackfooters. They don't need a construction engineer, they don't need an architect. Large infrastructure projects that bring huge foreign exchange inflows, as our country had, can only create serious companies that have to be behind which the state has to stand. That should be your assignment, too, Mr. Ljajic. I know how much you've done with this Algeria deal and I know what Algeria's attitude towards us is, but it has to be a two-way relationship. I have a request for you. Please pass on a suggestion to your colleagues from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. When you look at the Ministry site, about Algeria, they don't even know that there's a new government there. The Ministry's site says that the Prime Minister is someone who isn't today. Today's Prime Minister of Algeria is Abdelmarek Selal since 3 September. If you expect to cooperate with someone, then you must show that you care about them. It's no small matter if your foreign ministry doesn't know which Prime Minister Algeria is on its website. We can say it's a technical mistake, but it's not acceptable to a country that's friendly to us. I'm a construction engineer and I worked in large Serbian companies. The Energy Project never built in Germany. He never built anything in France. He never built anything in Italy. The Energy Project never worked in Switzerland, but he worked in Algeria, worked in Africa, the Middle East, South America, Central America. Our agricultural products are welcome in Algeria. I doubt our cheese will be welcome in Paris. I doubt our beer will be able to be sold in Germany, because the Germans don't drink beer from other European countries. The French, the Italians, the famous thing is, since a colleague talked about the SAA, it's known that Italians exclusively use Italian pasta. They will not use any pasta produced in other EU countries. It is the government's obligation to take care of its economy and its citizens and to open up all those markets where we are welcome, not to get carried away by the illusion that where we're not competitive, we don't have the power to create a miracle. In the economy, miracles don't happen. I welcome that you have contributed to raising your co-operation with Algeria to a higher level. This is the first important step, but we still have a lot of work to do. Without government support, our construction, our agriculture and our pharmaceutical industry will not make use of this agreement, and it would be a shame for Algeria to remain the untapped chance of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4752	Thank you. Next reported is MP Bojan Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4753	Mr. Obradovic is right when he in some way protestes what might be little interest in such a topic. I agree with his approach as well. He spoke more widely about the general issues or the general problems of our bilateral co-operation, particularly economic co-operation with markets outside Europe or outside the EU. Of course, I am not as optimistic as DSS MPs that Serbia can revolutionically increase its economic co-operation with those countries, increase economic co-operation, trade exchange, exports. There's a whole series of objective distractions for that sort of thing. One is geography, one is terribly high for most products transport and some other transaction costs etc. I think it is very important, the minister is here, perhaps today is an opportunity to talk a little bit about how Serbia enters bilateral agreements with some countries, how capable it is of protecting its interest through these agreements, whether sometimes politics outweighs economics or political analysis, I would say, poorly outweighs the right and good economic analysis. I'd like to point out a few examples. The Liberal Democratic Party will support this kind of arrangement. We, even though we are usually said to be Euroentusians, some would say Eurofanatics, think that Serbia should also look for markets in non-EU markets, although current numbers are inexorable, Serbia between 55% and 58% of its trade, both on the side of imports and on the side of exports, is exchanging with countries of the European market or on the European continent, a huge percentage naturally with countries or territories that are in our immediate environment. The important question was also opened by Mr Obradovic – what is it that the comparative advantages of this country are? That's a lot to talk about. I'd say you speak sometimes by heart and that our options are overrated. Of course, the minister has long been a minister in different governments and knows that politicians do so very often and that inclusion in television logs or in local media from some remote destinations very often have much more optimism than there is a real economic justification or market justification for future arrangements to be entered into. In most of its provisions, this arrangement is quite precise, regardless of what I hear on some committees of parliament, there have been doubts about a system of protection of our interests, or some kind of reciprocity that exists or should exist. This agreement, I am sure, Mr Ljajic, is much more favourable, much more seriously prepared, will be implemented much more seriously than some of our revolutionaryly announced and much praised agreements with some countries that are also outside the EU or are members of Brix, according to DSS colleagues. Here, first of all, I'm thinking of a famous energy agreement with the Russian Federation. I'd like to talk about this subject today, but also because you're here, I've tried to open that topic. You know under what circumstances it was concluded in 2007 and in 2008 so-called A roof energy agreement with Russia, which he covered everything. You remember that at that time, as one of the key issues, the issue of safeguard clauses in contracts for the Russian side, i.e. the issue of banning Serbia, or banning the authorities in Serbia from tightening their fiscal regulations, their environmental regulations, etc. over a period of time. We faced the first consequences of this problem before, it seems to me, for two years, when Serbia entered the process of increasing excise duties for some types of derivatives, or for some types of fuel. Now we are faced with a great problem of ambiguity, i.e. a different interpretation. I hope our side wants to interpret this agreement differently from the Russian side, that it wants to interpret it in favour of the Serbian side. It now shows how bad this agreement is and what I was talking about at the beginning, how much it is primarily the result of political assessments, I would say bad estimates, and that on the other hand the damage was done at the position of our economic interests or economic interests of our budget and our state. A few weeks ago, I asked the Minister of Mining a question in this House, and it concerns the question that the rate of mines will be applied in accordance with the agreement we have with Russia as of 1 January 2013. Do you remember, you're at the moment and Minister of Trade? The agreement contains several clauses that essentially prohibit Serbia from increasing the rates of tax burden, and the mining rent is a kind of burden, until such a burden is achieved, according to the agreement, by reaching the cost of the projects provided, Serbia will apply taxation in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Serbia that was in force on the day of the signing of the agreement. At that point, if you remember, the rate of the mining rent was 3%, and in the meantime we changed the law and the mining rent is now 7%. My question was whether the rate will be applied as of January 1st, as it appeared in public, above all from our government ministers, Mr Skundric, who was a consultant or adviser to the prime minister for energy, that the investment in Complex Panchevo was completed, the complex was opened several weeks ago and that Serbia would be able to charge a 7% mining rent from next year. Unfortunately, two days ago, I received a reply from the minister that the mining contract will be applied 3% by the end of the agreement. This, in the right reading of the agreement, means the next 26 years, as the agreement is concluded at 30 years and four years have expired. It's no small thing. There was great enthusiasm in that moment. It exists in part in our public today. But today when we need to interpret the agreement, there are obviously problems. At a difference between 3% of the mine's rent and 7% of the mine's rent, Serbia lost between 26m and 27m euros last year. About 20m euros was paid by NIS "Gaspromneft" by applying a 3% rate. If he had applied a 7% rate, that amount would have been 46.47m euros. It is not just a matter of central budget income, Serbia's budget. You know that the amount of the mining rent is divided into a certain proportion between local self-government, and in this situation between local self-government, the province of Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia, given that the most significant oil sites are located in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. It is a very important issue for the municipality of Kikind and other areas. What does your ministry do, what does the government do? I am not sure that the answer I received from the Minister of Mining is correct and that this is the correct interpretation of this agreement, 30 years times 25, 26m euros is 800m euros, twice as much as we got from the sale of NIS and this is provided that the exploitation does not increase. As you know, exploitation increases every year and that's good. I don't mind the fact that the Russian side is investing in this complex, which makes production more modern. It's also useful for Serbia. When NIS makes a profit, part of that profit is also obtained by the Republic of Serbia, but it is important that we may once again clarify the agreement. It'll help us when we talk about any deal here. One more thing. We talked about agreements with Algeria, this isn't the first time. We spoke in the last term. It's always big announcements, and it's not always the agreement, but some others, there are serious problems in practice, so the new government usually accuses the old one of not taking advantage of the potential of an agreement. Here I'm talking about the damage we have due to a bad and unclear agreement, which is at least 800m euros over the next few decades. I'm simply curious, if at this point you have an answer to that question, is there any way that Serbia can protect its interests that have been damaged in this way? Do you think that such a drastically different rate of mining rent, the minister of trade, violates the conditions of the market, that there is some kind of unfair competition, that some future investors will also seek a very sharp safeguard regime for their investments, and that we will not be able to do so either because we may be assessing or that next time we will assess our interests more correctly than when we have made a political agreement with Russia, whether it will make it impossible for us to make it very soon more restrictive, very strict EU rules, if we are still on that political course that we want to integrate into the EU? Another question, in some ways, I agree with the DSS' argument, that the serious losses of our country are the issue of lowering or lower customs revenues due to the application of the interim trade agreement, i.e. the SAA. Of course, my political position is reversed from what is the DSS' political position. They think we shouldn't have concluded that agreement and we shouldn't have gone into those integrations. I think we should have concluded this agreement, but in those integrations, we should have gone the way other countries have been. You know that the SAA is being concluded on the one hand, and on the other hand it is assumed that the country will quickly open negotiations, redefine its internal order, that it will be able to access EU funds very quickly, which will allow domestic economy, the domestic economy to prepare for an open European market and competition, and thus relatively quickly diverge the negative effects of reducing customs and positive effects, which will come from greater competitiveness in the domestic economy. We have practically not made any serious progress in the process of European integration in the past four years. It's always applied to us, to our responsibility, to our guilt, to some specific regime. We applied the SAA unilaterally first, and at this point, we are hardly able to apply the dynamics that are determined in the SAA itself when these problems are involved and therefore we are suffering negative effects today. I am telling you once again, my ambition was to point out to you this, that very often there are great inaccuracies, there is a large amount of insecureness when it enters bilateral or some multilateral arrangements, such as an arrangement with the EU through the SAA and that there is no real economic and then political analysis of all the positive and all the negative effects of such arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4754	Thank you. The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4755	What I would immediately agree with is the fact that the effects of not only such agreements are overrated, but also economic co-operation with developing countries, third world countries, many African and Arab countries, because the facts are inexcusable and you are absolutely right there – 91% of our external trade exchanges are achieved with EU countries and countries that are signatories to the CEFTA agreement. I don't really have anything to add to that. What we're trying to do, I think someone here said that, is find some new markets, first of all, for our construction operation. Realistically speaking, our construction firms, companies are hardly able to get a single tender on a market from EU member states, which is due to lack of bank guarantees, which is due to high demands and due to high competition. We are trying to get back to the market where we used to be, where our companies have good or even good references and where objectively there is a chance of getting some of the jobs by far, conditionally speaking, easier conditions that the tender prescribes, rather than in EU countries. I agree that it is dangerous to spread now an illusion and too many expectations that we will now experience an economic boom by improving or dominantly improving co-operation with these other countries outside the EU and outside the CEFTA agreement, which remains our absolute priority. This is one attempt, and you have well advised that in this respect we should not now spread some excessive optimism, that in this respect we can produce epochal results. I'm sure it can move, Algeria is a good paradigm, first of all, because of the fact that people are already working there. This is not a story for the future, this is the current state we have in relations with Algeria, which is more than favourable to other countries. Besides Angola, this is the country with the highest potential among all African countries, when it comes to resources, when it comes to investment opportunities in infrastructure. These are some of our ambitions, but the fact is that the EU and CEFTA countries are something that is our priority. On this second question, unfortunately, I can't give you a precise answer, I can only give you information that probably won't mean much to you. I know there have been attempts to amend this agreement, they have failed. I know that during the meeting of this mixed committee, which I think begins today in Moscow, there will be words, among other things, on this agreement. I don't know if there will be any concrete words about these amendments to the agreement in that part concerning these three percent, or seven percent, respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-14-0.u4756	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Minister Ljajic, do you perhaps want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint single search. We're going to the next item on the agenda. This is a joint single search on: Proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the Public Prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic, Proposal for a decision to suspend the office of the Public Prosecutor in the Higher Prosecutor's Office in Zajecar, Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the National Council for Higher Education and Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Decision on the Education and Labour of the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and the Internal Organisation and Systematization of Jobs in the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint single search on points eight to 11 of the agenda, before the search is opened, I remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. The time of the debate by the parliamentary groups you got in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on:Proposal of a decision on the termination of the office of the Public Prosecutor in the Higher Prosecutor in Užica, Proposal for a decision to suspend the office of the Public Prosecutor in the Higher Prosecutor's Office in Zajecar, Proposal for a decision to dismiss members of the National Council for Higher Education and Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Decision on the Education and Labour of the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and the Regulation on Internal Organisation and Systematization of Jobs in the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Do representatives of the promoters, MPs Petar Petrovic, chairman of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and Dr Miodrag Stojkovic, chairman of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Do we have a statement to make? No, I don't. ) Since there are no statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I assume that no one wants to exercise their right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure, I conclude a joint single search on the motions for decisions from points eight to 11 of the agenda. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 101(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I am terminating the sixth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2012 in order to hold a new session of the National Assembly, which you were informed of at the meeting of the 7th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2012, which was convened for tomorrow, or for Thursday, 15 November 2012, starting at 10.00 hours. This was due to the urgent need for the National Assembly to review and adopt acts on the proposed agenda of tomorrow’s session. According to Article 101(5), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the end of the sixth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2012 will continue on Tuesday, 20 November 2012, starting at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
