ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3898	Mr. President, I'm advocating members 27 and members 150 to 196. So it's not about this item on the agenda, the united discussion we're talking about right now, but about the next set coming up on the agenda, which is the choice of advice and confirmation of the statutes of the Energy Agency. On 31 January 2012, the Energy Agency sent the draft statutes to the National Assembly for confirmation. The previous assembly of the Assembly and the previous Committee on Industry discussed this act and delivered it to the Assembly for discussion. This act was done contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and these are precisely provisions from 150 to 196. This act shall be accompanied by a letter from the Agency and only a proposal for a Statute. The provisions of Articles 150 to 196 are not respected. There are not all those views that every act that we are discussing must have, which is the constitutional basis, the justification, the financial means, if in an emergency procedure, the reasons for the emergency procedure. This would be a precedent to discuss such an act. I suggest we do two things. It is one thing for the Proposer to withdraw the act and deliver an act to us in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and the other for the time at our disposal, until the beginning of that point, to supplement and comply with the Rules of Procedure and to discuss the act by complying with the regulations in force here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3899	Since we will certainly not have it on the agenda today, today we will only consider the first next item on the agenda, which I have read, and after that interrupt the session, I will carry out the necessary consultations and, if that is correct, I fully agree, we will certainly not have something on the agenda that is not in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint single search on proposals for the agenda for items 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 170, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. With no proposal to increase time, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group - one hour, 16 minutes and 48 seconds; the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - one hour, one minute and 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group - 30 minutes; the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia's parliamentary group - 18 minutes; the Liberal Democratic Party - 16 minutes and 48 seconds; the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of New Serbia - nine minutes and 36 seconds; the United Serbia's parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia's Democratic Party of Serbia's six minutes; the six-member group of Serbia's six-members ethnic group, the six-member group of Serbia's political parties, six minutes; Serbia's group of six minutes; Serbia's political group, six times; Serbia's political group, six times; Serbia's political group, six times; Serbia's group, six times; and six, six times; the ethnic ethnic ethnic groups, six, six, six ethnic groups, six, the ethnic groups, six, six ethnic groups, six, six, the ethnic groups, six, the ethnic groups, six, six, six, the ethnic groups, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, the ethnic groups of ethnic groups of ethnic groups, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, Serbian groups, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, ethnic, ethnic, ethnic, ethnic, ethnic, ethnic, six, ethnic, six, six, six, ethnic, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, ethnic, six, six, six, six, six, ethnic, ethnic, ethnic, ethnic, ethnic, According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall, by mutual agreement, determine no more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee (AD Railways of Serbia: Rehabilitation of railways) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee (Project of Water Systems in Subotica) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on Co-operation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Issues. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3900	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my address today will be related to the draft law confirming the guarantee treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Development, on the rehabilitation of the railway. Members of the Party of Democratic Action Sandzak, but also a complete parliamentary club to which we belong, will support the proposal for a railway rehabilitation agreement. About the objective importance of railways and rail traffic, there is not much to be spent on words. We find it extremely important both that traveller and freighter, because of their price and reliability. But speaking of railways, I cannot, not to mention the fact that Novi Pazar, one of the major cities in Serbia, is not connected by rail to the rest of the country, but also to the world. In order for Novi Pazar to get the railroad, it is necessary to build a 20km railway from Raska to Novi Pazar. Building that stock doesn't cost the country full, and citizens and businesses in Sandzak, but the whole country is worth a lot. Some may not know that this project is mobile several times, so it is forgotten that more than 50 years are waiting for that 20 - mile [20 km] railway. Only the needs of a business for the favourable transport of goods in our country's territory, as well as the transport of goods on export, primarily to the major markets in Russia and Turkey with which we have an agreement on duty-free trade, are sufficient reason to answer this question by realising it. Our products like clothing, shoes and furniture are both price and quality competitive on foreign markets. However, the final price of the product suffers great damage and suffers heavy pressure due to the high transport price. With a favourable way of distribution of goods on the domestic and foreign markets, we would significantly increase production. They would increase our country's index exports and reduce unemployment. The combination of railways and air transport from the airport in the Kraljevci, whose rehabilitation has already been approved by the government of the Republic of Turkey. To our economy, we would open the door to quick, efficient and favourable communications with world markets. In this way we get a concrete answer to the difficult situation in which our citizens and our economy are located. To avoid further spending my time saying and citing my reasons that it is important to build these 20km railways to Novi Pazar, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I call on it to address this issue as soon as possible, to create a dynamic and start realisation of this project, to enable citizens and businesses in Sandzak to use this advantage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3901	Thank you. The word is represented by DSS Sanda Raskovic-Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3902	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Today should be on the agenda Ratification of the energy agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy and that ratification has been withdrawn. We were found because yesterday it seemed that ratification would occur in this House, and today it is not. I'd like to ask Mrs. Energy Minister why that is. I'd like to say something about this ratification before. In part, I was present as the ambassador of the Republic of Serbia to Italy and my dissatisfaction with this agreement, as such, it is quite large and I consider it an uncolonial agreement. The agreement consists of a series of agreements that are common to all that Serbia gives its national resources, its hydro potentials and wind potentials to companies, i.e. companies in predominantly Italian ownership. Practically to give, and in return, they will export that energy, green energy to Italy and thus help Italy, because Italy is a signator of this Directive 2009/28/ZZ, where it is obliged to be at least a third of the energy produced by 2020 to be green energy. It has also been announced that Serbia will accept this same directive during October, or November. This means that in the future of 2020, we will have to produce and produce this green energy from other, much more expensive renewable energy sources, such as solar energy, such as geothermal sources and mass. We are committed by this agreement to create a transmission network completely on our cost, which will cost several hundred million euros, so that exports to Italy can be carried out. I must say, Madam Minister, that I know very well that you have nothing to do with this agreement, because it was done long before you came. I must say as a former ambassador to Italy, that neither the previous energy ministers nor the previous ministers fully participated in the tailoring and modelling of this agreement, but most things went into agreement with the former president's cabinet, and through his trustee, who worked at the embassy at the time, and the current ambassadors in the Republic of Italy. I'd like to ask you one more thing. Since we have the Law on concessions, and we don't have a concession commission, as the people say – there is no job done, there is a flaw here, of course. Not to make it look like we're just criticizing, please form a concession committee, that concessions are given on the basis of a public call, because it's our national treasure and our resources. That the commission is monitoring whether one of those who received the concession has truly met all the conditions that should be met within a certain time limit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3903	Energy Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3904	Regarding an agreement between Italy and Serbia, the government withdrew the agreement yesterday because there are additional activities to be done to ensure that the annex of the related projects is complete. As you know, this agreement is not just between Italy and Serbia. There are also plants in the Central Drina, so another state is participating, which is Republika Srpska. Since 2009, when the agreement was signed to this day, some things have changed. Just because that list would be really complete and clear, that's why the deal was withdrawn. We're a country that wants to talk to everyone when they complete one of those projects. I completely agree with you on the concession committee. What the Ministry of Energy, the development of environmental protection has already launched, is also a review of energy licenses, as well as a change to the Energy Authorisation Regulations. So, when you give someone an energy license, they must have a certain obligation to do what within that time limit, and the time limit for energy permits is two years. If he doesn't, we'll have that rulebook set up to pull some sequencings. Serbia needs energy and Serbia must not be a country in which permits will be granted, and then certain entities that have these permits do nothing during that period. To tie myself to this railroad you mentioned. It is mine to delegate your question to Minister Mrkonjic and the railways, and I will certainly do so as a member of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3905	Thank you. Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) There is a word, according to the application, MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3906	The Honorable Chairman, respected minister, respected colleagues today have a united debate on granting consent to the Treaty on Guarantees relating to rail modernisation projects. On the other hand, we have a question of modernization, i.e. editing and improving the water supply system in Subotica. I believe that these two proposals, practically guarantee contracts, are very important for the reason that this agreement of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development shows that infrastructure projects in Serbia must be invested in this way at the moment. So project funding. You had the material proposed to make these contracts look, that is, how long the negotiations took to get these contracts signed, so that this material would be found here for us today in the debate. In the first contract relating to the 95m-euro railway, if you have carefully observed the material, you will see that it is the beginning of the railway restructuring. It is true that this volume of 95 million funds is small compared to the problems the railways have. The European position in economic terms of the development of railway infrastructure, as well as the Balkans, shows that infrastructure projects must be separated from the commercial part given to drivers to compete on the capital market. Therefore, what was noted that the negotiations began last year, that the contract was signed between the European Investment Bank and the Railways of Serbia on 27 January 2012, means that during the previous government practically managed these public enterprises and the government itself, it was actually the first conclusion of the government on July 28th 2011. What can be seen in the description of these projects is that this infrastructure the state deals with includes more shares, first of all, Belgrade, Rakovic, Resnik, on the railway Belgrade – Mladenovac – Nis, then Jajance, Mala Krsna, then Lapovo, Bagrdan. Then you have Paracin – Cicevic and Cicevic – Stalac. Under this restructuring, it's not just a railroad. You know that there are certain projects that follow only the promotion of the network. There's also the power grid, there's the part about rebuilding and strengthening the lower machine, and in particular the restoration of the drain system, as well as the systems that are related to energy itself. This calls for support from not only the positional parties, but also the opposition parties. The second part of the contract with the European Investment Bank refers to a project to improve water systems in Subotica, which also started last year, in negotiations between the Public Enterprise "water and sewerage". Why is this happening in Subotica? Because, otherwise, Vojvodina is at risk of pollution from groundwater, and otherwise, we have problems with water quality in general in Vojvodina. On the Committee on Environmental Protection, we had a report on the waters of the Environmental Protection Agency, which is now in the power of the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection. In this regard, we have seen that part of the study of quality under the influence of groundwater, which has been observed by colleagues from opposition parties, has not been examined in detail for the simple reason that the state does not have enough financial resources and does not have an adequate agency with which to conduct the investigation. Therefore, given that Subotica was agile and in some ways the public company began negotiations in 2011, and the contract was signed on 4 May 2012, and negotiations with the European Investment Bank have been under way since 2009, this contract, signed at 11m euros. I don't know if you noticed that two million and 40,000 euros were given through a certain donation of technical assistance through this loan, which means a million and 300,000 relating to the part that would directly relate to the project and 740,000 euros that would relate to certain consulting services. When we come up with stories about consulting services, we always have some bad odym. However, in the case of the European Investment Bank, when project financing occurs, bank experts are doing a full analysis of all projects and are entering a partnership with you. None of the consulting services, by Serbia, can carry out a risk assessment and what concerns the very assessment of the project, except experts from the bank who do so together in co-operation with our representatives of public enterprises. This part of technical assistance related to these consulting services also belongs in some way to the experts of the bank itself. Therefore, that part of this contract also shows that, indeed, at a given time, it will be extremely cost-effective. Why? Because this part of the project and the contract consists of three stages. One is the construction of a water-processing facility on certain waterways, then the construction of collectors and four wells, and in the end you have an expansion of the sewage network and collectors. We think that Subotica will prove to be a good example of project financing and investment of certain investments, regardless of the credit issue, and I believe that the start of the job was the period when the previous government insisted on these projects. Therefore, I believe that support for these agreements, namely in terms of voting, should also support the DS that is now in the opposition. Finally, the third agreement shown in this joint debate is an agreement relating to the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Georgia, which may not have so much to do with the co-operation agreements between Serbia and the European Investment Bank for Development, but shows one part of our will to co-operate on all the problems that arise at customs crossings. He's not causing any financial needs. I also think it should be supported by the opposition parties. I thank you, and I will report if anyone in the opposition has specific questions, given that I have been a little more concerned with considering these contracts, not only on the European Bank's co-operation for Development with Serbia, but also with countries in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3907	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3908	Dear Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try first and foremost to discuss these proposals and discuss with the minister, with full respect for your willingness to give some explanations, but Serbia is still a parliamentary democracy which also has the executive power, since these laws are proposed by the government and it is responsible for them, and it is also about guarantees, so I would like to hear some guarantees from the government representatives, or the minister, not from political parties, even if it is the biggest ruling party. I will focus on the government's proposal, or initiative, to give a guarantee to the Zeleznica Serbian Action Society. That's the first objection to what you've talked about. The Serbian railway has not been a public enterprise for some time. So we can't look at them in the light of some other companies that carry out their activities of general interest. The railway is now, at least formally, a company with all advantages, disadvantages, risks that such a form of organisation and business bear. I have no objection to the fact that a loan was taken to rehabilitate the railway, or the work of the railway in Serbia's territory. The least I care about is whether that contract was prepared and signed by the previous or this government. The important thing is that this contract is ratified. What is my problem and the LDP problem with this proposal is that we doubt the ability of the Serbian Railways to implement this project as part of a general project on rehabilitation and improvement of the state of the country's railway infrastructure and it is clear that the railway will not be a credible and capable debtor for a long time, that this loan will be directly returned by the Republic of Serbia from the budget. So this is said in the very text of the guarantee agreement. The Republic of Serbia, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia, is the primary debtor for the loan, not only guaranteed. Because I'm saying the Railways aren't able to implement this project in a good way, that it's costable in the long term and that they return that loan afterwards, which would be the most normal thing for a guarantee contract. The guarantee only appears as someone in exceptional situations who needs to intervene and repay the loan. With Serbian public enterprises and state-owned enterprises, companies that are in absolute or largely state-owned property, there has been no absolute possibility for years of returning loans. Serbia's budget pays very seriously each year for these guarantees. It would be good if the minister could, and I believe you have the power of scattered attention, so that you listen to both the discussion and what your associates are telling you, but let's concentrate. We also discussed these problems with ministers, with the finance minister, the prime minister of the past government on several occasions. I think you were obliged here at the beginning of the debate to simply tell us and the public what the current situation is, what are the current performances of the company for which we take credit, or whose credit we guarantee. These are Serbia's Railways, a company that you did last year, although the previous government did, but above all under the authority of the parties that are also in the current government, is artificially transformed into a stock company, divided into several companies, in one way that I don't think is the best model of restructuring such serious firms and companies that are so serious losers. It's kind of what the state is now obviously planning to do with JAT and some other companies. So the former single company is divided into several parts. One part deals with cargo transport, another part of passenger traffic, third part infrastructure, and this fourth part remains practically debts. It's a huge problem when someone's doing it in the private sector, then it's more or less on the verge of fraud or that crime. When the state tries to do so with the Public Enterprise, when it will do so in a few months with JAT, by extracting property and rights from the old company, to create a new one that is supposed to start from scratch, and leaving the old one with debts, then it is viewed as restructuring. Why is this move not enough, why is it not enough to change the structure of the "Serb Railways" so that they become an efficient company that can care for both infrastructure and goods transport, and the transport of passengers and that it generally acts as, in this case, a company that performs a very important business activity? Because management in that company is a problem, management organisation, the way it is set up. Today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, you will say a lot of things, I suppose, to brag about the bill on public enterprises, which will introduce an institute of competition and prevent party appointments in public enterprises. I have to remind you it's going to be a law relating to public enterprises, right? It will not refer to "Serbian Railways", it will not refer to all these essential public enterprises, but companies that have some different organisational shape, i.e. act as action societies. It won't apply to Telecom, it won't apply to any other companies. That's what we're worried about. Of course, that rule applies to the CEO of the Railways, also to the administration of each of the dependent societies that exist in the Railways. When that happens, we also had the same remarks in the past government which, in the same way, took similar action in public enterprises, setting up, among other things, our former deputy general director for "The Railway of Serbia". What are the other performances of this company? What's the accumulated loss of "Serbian Railway"? He exceeded a billion euros a long time ago. What's the number of railroad employees? Theoretically, between 18.5 and 19,000. Right? If you add the number of employees in those companies, in those companies that were separated from the Railways several years ago by administrative decision, that number is far higher. These other companies are not real companies on the market, they are directly dependent on "The Railways", depending on these loans, depending on the subsidies we give each year to "The Railways of Serbia" and which you will obviously give in this budget, which will come before this parliament in a few days or weeks. Perhaps it was fair, the government and the finance minister boasted that the subsidies would be reduced, to tell us how much will the "Serb Railway" grant be next year? Not only will the Railways not be able to repay this loan when its return begins, but they will not be able to finance their current business. A few weeks ago, we listened here to a debate between the former finance minister and the current finance minister, who had not understood for several years that the entire amount or most of the amount of subsidies given to the Railways was spent on salaries every month. When the subsidy is a little smaller, then there's no pay for November or December. What else is this loan talking about? It speaks of Serbia actually having to make a decision that is its strategic interests, where its key political interests are. We can see that very clearly when we compare the conditions under which we take this loan. This infrastructure loan is not an easy cash loan, as is usually credit for Serbian public enterprises. These are current liquidity loans taken by Srbigas next week, and then interest rates are decent, interest rates that can be serviced. Here's the interest with a six-month Eurobor, plus one percent margin. It is a very decent interest under current conditions, especially given the current height of the euro. That's a few times less than the price of the margin we're going to pay for a loan that takes "Srbigas". There's a 6% margin, 6.5%, 7%, 7.5%. I guess that tells us that we have to turn to some kind of projects that involve serious investment in infrastructure, serious changes that will allow us to both public and state-owned enterprises to finance differently. In this case, it can provide "Bi-Ar-Di", a loan that was partly taken from Russia, the second part being negotiated, is not so favourable. Some of the other loans we're taking are not so favourable. That money, that's 120, 130, 140m euros we give out of the budget every year for the Railways, doesn't fall from the sky. Since the Serbian budget has been in the chronic deficit for years, we take this money essentially by borrowing. When we are in charge of three, three and a half, four, four and a half billion euros over the year, then we finance subsidies and "Serbian Railways", and then the price of that money is actually the price at which we are in debt on the international market. That price is not a six-month Eurobor, plus one percent margin. It's incomparably bigger. That's 6.5%, 7%, 7.5%. Last time was 6.66%, right? For a billion euros and dollars, for which we were in debt ten days ago. This is the money, the money taken for the budget and then going to these things – the Railway, other public enterprises, the JAT, the payoffs of social contributions, etc. If we don't make some kind of sharp turn, nothing's gonna change. Debts are going to get bigger every year. Some companies will be book-keeping to show that they have no loss, in the meantime by taking the liquidity loan and covering the missing amount, they will sometimes be in chronic loss. Everyone expects and everyone agrees that the Railways are probably the biggest loser in this country and doesn't get too excited about it, but what's the plan for the state to rehabilitate the company itself? What's rail traffic supposed to look like in any segment of this country in a few years? What's your plan? What it looks like is an important segment called the education of young people who will work in the Railways. In this country, the cost of taxpayers, citizens of this country, is financed each year by the enrollment of a department of people whose profession will be called – the car decorator. Do you really think that in the Railways of Serbia and in those several companies that allegedly produce wagons in this country, which also cannot survive without assistance from budget subsidies since they are losers, every year there is a need for 30 new car decorators? I'm not sure "Serbian Railway" cars are terribly modern or successfully decorated. I think they still have photos of tourism potentials from the SFRY above the seats. Right? That's some expense. Where are these people going to work that finish those railroad schools? In this same company that can no longer hire anyone, who has too many people, who pays 19,000 employees, plus several thousand in social enterprises that work for her, or are they going to be where? He's on the stock market. It's a specific part of the labour market. You can't be a train decorator to work in another branch of industry. It's just that there's no such thing. Inertia is something that is the paradigm of this country. I believe that no one thinks seriously about this kind of problem, that this is treated as a problem of the Ministry of Education, which has nothing to do with your ministry or the Ministry of Traffic, Infrastructure, etc. Then it all falls on the burden of the budget and all falls on the burden of some loan we're talking about here. This loan has other obligations. Among other things, he says the guarantee will open access to the railway network for at least two other domestic operators on 31 December 2013. We didn't talk about it either, and we didn't hear anything. When the previous government ceased to exist, all reform issues, including the "Serb Railway" reform, were not spoken in public, except that these Russian trains arriving at the spoon, were used every bit for painting in the election campaign. So we and this railroad loan turned into a means of political struggle for the Russian trains -- let's say, at some point between the government of Vojvodina or Vojvodina or the authorities in Belgrade, with a new beautiful Russian train, Russian furniture, who will be able to take a picture. Was that before the last election? It's partly like that now. It is difficult that in a serious country, these problems can ultimately be resolved at meetings between the Serbian government and the prime minister of the AP. When we ask the question – what about it? Those trains are also on loan. What's up with that? The answer is – all solutions are in the folder. Since this is a parliament, it is not good for the solutions to be found in the folder and when we talk about the borrowing of citizens of Serbia, or the budget, to say that anyone who has any objection or who is against such a model, who is against the current way of managing state-owned public enterprises, does not wish well for the citizens of Serbia, the citizens of Cicicevic or the citizens of any place around whom or to whom the railway should be rehabilitated. We need to discuss some essential things. Is there anyone in the country who can tell the President of the Republic to stop talking when he visits certain parts of Serbia, that local roads will build concessions? That's really unserious. I haven't heard of this model that mountain-mounted roads to some villages are built according to the concession model. It's unsustainable and it won't work. While in the countries around us that have built road infrastructure long before us, I am not talking about rail, but about classic roads, having serious problems financing maintenance of this, entering concessions of arrangements, trying to save both their infrastructure and their budget, which is even more important to them at the moment, by giving them a national highway in the concession, but it is a highway that connects to the countries around us that have built their road infrastructure a long time ago, now I am not talking about rail roads, but about classic roads, having serious problems to finance maintenance of this, entering concessions of arrangements, trying to save their infrastructure and their budget, which is even more important to them, by giving them a national highway in the concession, but it is a highway that connects Zagreb and the sea, it can not be a local road across Golia. It is unserious to give hope to people and to talk about models of how the construction of infrastructure will be financed. We have no custom, I hope to be corrected, to discuss final budget accounts in this country. That's why we're having investigations opened through television shows, and that's why we're all pleading according to our political, let's put it that way, preferences. It would be interesting to see what happens in part of the travel infrastructure when it comes to so-called. Corridor 11, because only in Serbia is Corridor 11, and in Europe there is no such thing as a network of European corridors. What does it mean by Minister Ilic's statement that the Serbian government is giving 60 million advances to the Azerbaijani firm to allow domestic companies to be involved in projects? On what terms did we take charge of this loan? Who's doing the work? That contract was ratified here for several months or a few weeks before the election was called. We made it very clear, and then we warned about what it would turn into. When the 60m euros are gone, when that money is drained again, and the roads aren't finished, then who's to blame? Previous hair? The current government? Someone who took the loan, someone who didn't deal directly, etc.? That's how it's gonna be with this loan. It will continue "Serbian Railway" to issue a paper called "Pruga". You know that this company publishes its own newspaper on employee trips, management successes, and jam and winter recipes. What is the interest of this company and the citizens of Serbia to pay for such a thing? I wouldn't mind doing something like that for companies that are successful and investing in marketing. Serbia's railways are monopolies, no one is forcing them to do anything. Every year they get a generous grant from the budget. The state guarantees them every loan, and then goes to these labor sports games, newspapers are issued. Is that an effective functioning of states? I'm not going to tell you about the examples because we've talked so many times over the past few days about what professional qualifications are like, what are the diplomas of those or some of those, to be more specific, which you're putting in place for the directors of large systems. Once again, I warn you of the fact that the law that you're announcing, which you're praising, obviously won't apply to those companies that are, in fact, the most important, which are either by their own size or by the importance that they have on the ground, by the means that they hire or by the losses they've made so far, actually, the cancer of our system's wounds. They will not prohibit party employment. As with other companies, you will again cut your salaries linearly, so when you announce a law on the limit of the highest earnings, it turns out to be a reduction and a drastic reduction of the lowest earnings in these companies, not those that are particularly high. There's no criterion what a successful company is. By what criteria will you try to hire people to run "Serb Railways", is it by not making a loss that is impossible in such a system, or is it going to strongly and professionally suggest a model that is sustainable? What's a political idea anyway? It'll be easy to find some companies and some workers in the end. You're right about that. The IBRD still has some of its less strict rules and the work will be launched. You have to understand that whoever gives credit in this case is perfectly protected. He even has an excessively high interest in insisting on it. That's why I initially said that the state in this contract is a primary debtor. She'll settle the obligations. Even our country, even in this state, cannot fail. She'll always be able to pay. Our problem is how we're going to fix this system inside our own country. Will he be responsible for what the railroad does? Will those involved in this work or in other similar matters answer? That's not in this loan. It has nothing to do with a creditor who comes as someone who gives this credit under, I admit, favourable conditions, and that's especially not in some other situation, and I think this was an opportunity to talk about it much more. I don't protect the citizens from being fascinated. I don't believe they'll believe that Serbian railways and Serbian railways will be much faster after this, and for those citizens whose parts of the country and the regions will be rehabilitated will certainly be a significant thing, but in itself not enough if some other things don't change. They already pay the ticket when they buy the train ticket and indirectly for the subsidy given to the "Serb Railways". That's very little to think about. Thank you. PRESIDENT: The word has Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3909	Where do you think you're going? In 20 minutes of your debate, there was talk of roads, Prime Minister, investigations, directors, the Law on Public Enterprises, and I would like to return to the bill on the confirmation of the agreement on the guarantee of AD "Serb Railways". I believe that you are certainly in favour of restoring technical infrastructure on the shares mentioned here in the offices. I believe you're certainly not against it. I agree in one thing with the fact that the story here needs to be broader, not only about this law, but about the systemic changes that must certainly, and reforms, happen in "The Railways of Serbia" and in many other businesses. You'll probably mention "Serbigas" later, which I completely agree with, and EPS, etc. Railways are a closed stock company, which you know, and one is a shareholder that's a state, and whatever you say is a state-owned company. The railroad tried to get a 200m-euro loan from the IBRD, so it couldn't get it because it didn't have prepared projects. Only for those things where she had clearly defined and prepared projects she got this loan. I believe that the IBRD is a serious institution and I believe that this loan could certainly not be under such conditions that there are no basic preconditions for it to be, and I can confirm that as someone who was the governor of IBRD in front of Serbia. As far as the Law on Public Enterprises is concerned, I don't think it's today's topic, but I think it's very important that all directors of public enterprises are definitely elected to the competition and that's what this government and the representatives of this government and I are talking about. I think it's the right way to get professionals, and what you said, brave people, people who can handle it. We must also not forget that many of the things that we are cleaning up today, so to speak, in the last three months are the legacy of the previous government or previous governments and the serious problems that exist right in public enterprises, which I agree, we all have to try to solve as a new government and it's not easy at all. The railroads are one of the serious businesses and the serious problems we have. as I mentioned in some energy companies, so I believe that you cannot disagree that this is necessary for Serbia, but that it is also necessary, I will agree with you, essential changes in the public business of the Serbian railway company."
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3910	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3911	Just to clarify that "Serb Railways" are not a public enterprise, and if so – is the Law on the Selection of Directors in Public Enterprises, that is, part of the law of the Law on Public Enterprises going to apply to companies that are organised, such as the "Serb Railway", in this case, a state-owned company that has the form of a company where the state is the only shareholder?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3912	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3913	I agree with you to call it a closed stock company, but the state is the only shareholder, so there's no confusion for all those who watch and who don't really understand the things we're talking about. The other thing is, I'm willing to definitely be competitions for cases like this, like we're going to. have an EPS corporateisation where it will certainly change its form and also become a closed action society. They'll have one shareholder - state. I'm very much in favour of competition here, too, because these are serious companies that have to run serious, professional and experienced people.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3914	Word by MP Bojan Djuric
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3915	One sentence. Today is Wednesday, and I think tomorrow is a session to discuss the law. We'll see if your plot has turned into practice through the bill. In some situations, the same thing you asked us to do for our patience. You said that the solutions you have proposed and made will not cause any problems, so as far as I hear this session being interrupted due to an emergency or shortly after its end will be adopted and the urgent amendments of the NBS Act will be considered in order to correct some of the mistakes that were made only a few months ago and that we warned you very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3916	Thank you. Mrs. Tomic, on what grounds are you answering? (Alexandra Tomic, from the scene: I just wanted to explain some things. You will have time at the end of the discussion, when all speakers finish. Are any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, answering for a word? No, I don't. ( ) We move to the order of speakers according to the application for word. The word has the People's Messenger Miroljub Stojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3917	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People, I called for a discussion under point 5, i.e. the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee contract a.d. "The railway of Serbia", the accreditation of the railway, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I can immediately say that it is a good thing that this point is on the agenda today, given that it is a truly significant 95m-euro investment. It is somewhat unreasonable that since 27 January we have been waiting for this kind of agreement and, say, the release of such an investment, given that the Republic of Serbia needs one such investment in such a serious amount, if we have in mind the state of rail lines and the engagement of our construction operation. I sincerely hope that after nine months we will make one significant decision. If this decision is to be taken into account, this technical part of the tender will be called. We've lost a year, in terms of the beginning of such a significant project. I would like to say that the contract itself states that the bank has agreed to grant a 95m-euro loan to the borrower for the rehabilitation and modernisation of the railway network on Corridor 10, focusing on the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Rakovica-Resnik stock and the rehabilitation of shares along Corridor 10. According to the terms of the loan agreement or to which it is called, but only on condition that the guarantee guarantees the borrower's obligations under the loan agreement, as provided for in this contract. I would like to say that the project's description says that the project covers the reconstruction of construction and electrical infrastructure on the master's tracks of a.d. "Serb Railway" on the Belgrade-Rakovica-Resnik shares, which is given in the basic contract, Jajinci-Mala Krsna, Lapovo-Bagrdan, Paracin-Cicevic and Cicevic-Stalic. In order not to be misunderstood and I don't mind having these funds engaged and investing in these shares that are listed, I find it a little odd that the entire section of the Nis railway towards the border with Macedonia is left out, given that the worst condition, as far as the railway is concerned, in Corridor 10, is on the shares between Leskovec and Vranja, on the stake in the Grdeliska gorge itself, given that the static and bridges and the railways itself are seriously disturbed. On certain sections, trains move up to 30 kilometers per hour, and if we say it is necessary between Leskovec and Vranj to travel for about two and a half hours, it says that this section of the railway is indeed in critical condition. The importance of the railway for this part of Serbia is not to speak much, given the structure of the southern Serbian economy, that the railway itself is a serious factor in the development of the entire southern Serbia, that the opening of industrial zones and free zones in the territory of Vladic's Han and the town of Vranja is planned. My discussion is focused on one question – is there any possibility that out of these 95 million dinars, certain funds are allocated to the recovery of a section of the railway on this section, or is it possible to wait for some new loans, announced by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? I ask you to take this proposal seriously into consideration, given the state of the railway line in that area, that it is precisely with trains, which go from the direction of Presevo via Vranja and Leskovec, that a significant number of students studying in Nis and that this infrastructure facility is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3918	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3919	Just a reminder, the railroad got this loan for those projects she had done. Unfortunately, what you mentioned was certainly one of their wishes, but there were no projects done. It's now a question of those who run the railways, to make priorities, and to keep everything they put in that direction. I believe they'll do it. After all, we'll pass it on to them. For what they had projects, it was credited, and it can't be changed now for recovery or anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3920	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3921	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is simply inadmissible that ease with which laws and ease are proposed over the fact that the representatives of the Government should explain all the draft laws, including the ratifications that come into this parliament. It would be very good for the public to make all these proposals here in parliament publicly state, explain, show itself to Parliament and the public why they are coming to the agenda. That's one basic thing, if you're looking for a serious debate about the bill we're discussing today. Of course, the LDP also supports the rehabilitation of railways and railways, and we also support the improvement of water systems in Subotica. We have nothing against it. We really wanted to hear something and why it talks to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development when it comes to such rehabilitation and improvement. You know, there's a lot of public talk here about whether citizens are for the EU or not, what support they are, whether that support is falling, whether citizens have a clear picture of what they really mean for Serbia's European integration. This is what is missing when it comes to various credits, guarantees and ratifications of various agreements, which aim to use certain EU privileges and benefits, with the hope that one day we will become equal members of the EU. Serbia has been in transition for more than 20 years. Serbia today has 75,000 citizens looking for a job. It's more than 25% of the total workforce. So Serbia is in such problems that it simply cannot explain to the public what it means for this country that European integration is being pushed, accelerated and not left in the status quo situation, which is clearly the basis of a single policy. It is the government's policy, which in the last three months, as I understand it, is mainly about cleaning up the former government's solution, and less about or not dealing with reforms at all, which should be the government's strongest goal. It does not deal with reforms, does not deal with modernising the financial sector, does not deal with revitalising public expenditures, savings and the like. I remind you that the budget rebalance has actually reached that our budget deficit is 6.8% of GDP, which is otherwise an increase compared to the budget law that envisioned that budget deficit. In fact, there is an increase in one public debt, and it is said that we are going to do some savings, that we are going to do one budget for next year that will be very restrictive, which will be at the will of the IMF etc. Then we hear that, among other things, we will be talking soon, or tomorrow, about amendments and additions to the National Bank Act, because apparently some of the provisions of this law are not in line with some European and world standards, so it is very interesting how interesting we have drawn attention that those solutions provided for by this law are not good and that this parliament will have to discuss the law on the National Bank of Serbia again very quickly. It is very important that Serbia is finally identifying whether it wants to tap the place or Serbia to want reforms. Without reforms, there is nothing but a retrograde development, and this retrograde development sooner or later will lead Serbia to bankruptcy, although it was nice to hear, when the finance minister pleaded that the government saved Serbia from bankruptcy. If this government did it, then we really have reason to ask that government to behave in this way, to continue this rescue activity. But from her concrete moves, we can't tell that it's really what they're talking about or that what they're saying doesn't fit the real state of things. I'm going back to the fact that it's very important that the railways are finally modernized. A lot of money this parliament has approved on behalf of the loan or guarantee for these loans. However, we do not see some of the consequences of investing these funds in the railways. So if there is no consequence, if there are no positive shifts in terms of the development of the entire railway, then the question arises – is it a good approach that has been declared and started in relation to the change in the situation in the highly-indebted railway? The railway is not the only example of state-owned enterprises, public enterprises. There is also the "Srbigas" you were talking about, there is JAT, there is also a lot of what is a great burden and a great balance on the budget of the Republic of Serbia that will remain as a burden unless access to problems in these public enterprises is changed. One way is the one you spoke of as "Serbiagas." However, whether this corporateisation will really achieve the goal that you are saying or just serve to make things better for a moment, but that nothing fundamentally changes. So once again I would point out, we are for every kind of progress, we are for the railways to be financed and revitalised, we are for doing whatever is necessary and within these waters in Subotica. However, we are not in favour of keeping one truth quiet, which is that things are difficult to move in Serbia in a reform sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3922	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3923	Again, to be more specific than you, since you've told us everything I assume you and your DS friends have done in the past. This government has inherited a difficult economic, social, every other situation in this country and I don't want to talk about it now and talk about it. We're here to change things. The Serbian citizens said very clearly in the elections that they wanted to change and the government was made and the budget rebalancing that you mentioned was something that was inherited and had to be done as such. Also, when you say there is no change, I will remind you that after six years, this government first adopted a draft budget for 2013 within the legal deadline and that budget will be set before you MPs. I wouldn't say that some things don't change without talking about the deficit we planned, some things that will certainly be reformed. The law on public enterprises you mentioned was certainly a reform matter, since in the previous period, the fact was that it was only important and only as a criterion that you were a member of a political party, so that as such you would get a certain directorial post. After all, your representatives are in some companies, as far as I know, to companies that have both serious financial and economic problems. When you're talking and asking, why "EBRD"? There are a few reasons. First, because the terms of the loan are exactly the most favourable, because commercial banks as such will not finance such infrastructure facilities. I also believe that you know that cost-effectiveness in that sense is quite different. That is why infrastructure facilities or infrastructure things that are mainly done and go through such institutions as "EBRD" and other institutions. That's where I'd be. I think it is quite clear that this government is very defined, not only towards the path of European integration, it is defined primarily for reforms in its own country. There will be some serious changes here, not just about the railways, not just about the Serbs. The corporation you're talking about is one of the steps. So we have to go. The fact that the predecessors didn't start and that there were such problems and that we inherited the torn, destroyed economic and financial public enterprises, that I believe is really in the work of some other bodies, but we as a government and how we move some things. What I mentioned today to your colleagues, and to you, are one of the reform things, so you make it easy to establish. I believe we'll see each other in this House in the coming period, so I believe you'll also have to take care of what's called a state of fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3924	Thank you. Mrs Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3925	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Your Honor, Madam Minister, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that, when you mention your friends, DS, that a good part of the current government has also been committed by the government in which the DS was headquarters. When we talk about this friendship, I think you're talking about a bad address. We were in opposition back then, just like today. It is another thing that we support everything that is a reform character and everything that is actually aimed at modernising Serbia and you cannot challenge that kind of well-meaning. So, that finding you've given us, it would be good to refer it to all the ministers who were ministers in the previous government as well. I don't think there's any anger here, because if these ministers participated in the previous government and did great damage and led Serbia to bankruptcy, then the question arises -- did these ministers know how it was done and what was done? If they didn't know, then they were dilettans, and if they knew and allowed it to be done and finished and finished, in that case the question arises – do they have to answer in terms of responsibility and criminal and moral to the public of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3926	Thank you. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3927	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Mihajlovic, today we have several extremely important laws and, as the predecessors have said, the first on the agenda is the Law on the Guarantee of the Action Society of the Railways of Serbia. Another important, I will only look back at those two laws, is a law that guarantees the city of Subotics. Trains in Serbia today travel or move slower than 100 years ago. Serbia's railway is in serious financial trouble. The infrastructure's been destroyed. My predecessor, a respected colleague, spoke about the state of infrastructure in southern Serbia. This is not disputed and it is not disputed for us to invest in infrastructure and to improve the performance of such an important infrastructure system. It is not disputed that in most cities, municipal systems are in a particularly bad state, it has not been invested in years, they have been produced, the water quality is extremely low. It is not disputed that the town of Subotica should also get drinking water, as it is not disputed that no other city in Serbia should have in the 21st century all these basic things that help to live qualityly. I don't think there's anyone in this room, like there's no one in Serbia who's going to say that it's controversial that one city should get water and it's not disputed that it should be invested in railways, which anyone who's traveled by rail in recent years, and also one who hasn't, if he passes a train station or sees a composition that travels between two cities, it's clear to him that he needs to invest in railways. It's not a question for us for a moment, but is there anything that's controversial besides those two facts? Except for two facts, that it is not disputed that the railway is in poor condition and that we need drinking water, everything else is controversial. There's not one thing about these two projects that's not controversial. If you look at the railroad loan, this 95m-euro loan, this loan is on two sides of the text. Anyone who tried to take a 1,000-euro loan to buy a refrigerator and a freezer in Serbia knows that he needs a list of papers that prove that he is capable of returning the loan, such a list of papers to prove that he can serve it in time. For 1,000 euros, it takes this much paper, and for 95m euros, two sides of paper. In doing so, "Serb Railway", I am terribly sorry that, with all due respect to Minister Mihajlovic, there is no Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic because he is the right address for this issue, if I am not mistaken. Although time goes by, it seems that only Mirko Cvetkovic sat in the past government. As time goes by, it turns out there was no coordination in the previous government. In the previous government, we learned that she had no planned salary in her budget for "The Railway of Serbia", that she had only eleven salaries instead of twelve. I thought I knew Mr. Mrkonjic well, we've known each other for almost 20 years, I know there's no problem in saying, I know he's very eloquent, and I'm surprised that he didn't say at that cabinet session -- people, "the railroad" doesn't have the funds provided. How did he forget that when he voted for that budget? That's the "railway" that gets paid out of the budget, gets budget subsidies, and now we're giving a guarantee, the government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing to the Assembly to give the guarantee "railmen" to finance the project. It's the same railroad that has extra employees and completely inefficient handling. Just look at the DRI report, there are hundreds of pages of lack of procedures and various other things that should be in the law. That railroad is now going to make an effective use of this loan. There is no information on how these funds will be used, no single information, except that it will be guarantees. It's a very clear thing that this loan will come to the burden of the budget sooner or later. When I say the budget of the Republic of Serbia, I mean the citizens of Serbia, that this loan will be returned by the citizens of Serbia. The result of this borrowing, with four billion interest dinars in the 2012 budget on activated guarantees and 16 billion dinars activated guarantees, i.e. the mains of activated guarantees. So, loans are granted by automation, since these public enterprises are unable to monitor them sooner or later, it comes to the burden of the budget. The second loan I'm going to talk about is a loan to Saturday. Same story, even smaller, since there are some standard conditions. It's a one-sided loan. It's been explained that Subotic needs water. The same explanation, when you take 1,000 loans, you need 100 pages of various accompanying documents, and for 11m euros you need one side. The budget of the city of Subotica for 2012 is about 4 billion and 800 million dinars. Although in Serbia we have a two-currency system, everything needs to be converted into euro in order to be clearer. That's 42m euros. The annual budget of the city of Subotica is 42m euros. Of course, we know what kind of problems local self-government is in. The town of Subotica only gives about 900m euros for the salaries of educational workers in pre-school education, primary and secondary education. Practically one-quarter of the budget is just the salaries of educators and all the other donations. When we look closely at this budget, we see that the city of Subotica is in charge. Interests and principals are due to pay nearly 200m dinars or about 2m euros this year. We guarantee them a loan of 11 million equal to a quarter of their budget. There is not a single assessment whether these loans will create a new job in Serbia, whether Serbia's GDP will increase by a single dinar, whether it will be realised, whether it will have any positive effect on borrowing. There's not one word of what this effect on borrowing has. There is no Mr. Cvetkovic, but I do know that the main objection to his work was to hide the borrowing data. To get back to the beginning, I don't have a single remark to invest in the railroad. I don't think there's a single man in Serbia who's going to say you shouldn't invest in the railways. There is no point in not investing in water supplies, but also, if we agree that "need" is the only criterion, then I don't think there is a man in Serbia who will say that schools are in good shape and that there is no need to invest in education. I don't think there's a single man in Serbia who's going to say you shouldn't invest in health care. If the "need" criterion is, then it must be invested in gasifications, it should be invested in roads. If the criterion is "necessary", it should also be invested in pensions, it should be invested in social giving, and it should also be invested in subsidising new jobs. It wouldn't be a bad idea to invest in a 13-year-old's salary. Not to be confused, I'm not talking about Serbia right now, I'm talking about Greece, because Greece had the only "need" criterion, so today is the most famous country in the world, but by all means bad. The government of one country has no right to have the only "need" criterion, because in every country everything needs to be done, but that's why the government has to choose priorities, so it has to say: these are priorities and we will invest first in what can bring us the greatest benefit tomorrow, so that we can get out of the problem. Every farmer in Serbia knows that. Every farmer who has a fruit, when he's supposed to cut the fruit, he cuts off that branch one year, which will give him the most fruit, and next year he cuts off someone else. Every farmer in Serbia knows how to choose a priority when cutting fruit, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has no priorities. That's why in a few years from the low-indebted land, we became a very responsible country. According to the government of the Republic of Serbia, 16 billion euros do not enter two billion euros from the National Bank, does not enter 500 million from local self-government and not all of those backlogs that are owed to companies for the services done are already reaching 20 billion. Obviously, "need" is not a sufficient condition and it is obvious that a public debt strategy should be established, but a fair strategy that will allow us not to share the fate that Greece has at this time and which they already have in the literature, the "gypsies of the country", the five EU countries that are practically on the edge or are bankrupt. That's our objection with these laws. The state can't look at every single thing individually. Pull every thing out of the system, and you'll have one conclusion. Put that thing back in the system, and you'll see if you have any money for it or not. What concerns us is that it is the exact same principle that prevailed for the past four years, that foreign borrowings are funded by projects that are being pushed by each party in the government, that clearly there is no united policy related to selecting priorities. Of course, we still don't have any evidence, these are some of the first loans we have, we can only suggest that. But based on the data we received, based on the accompanying acts, unfortunately, we have no reason to believe it would be different. We insist on amending the Public Debt Act, which will uniquely determine the methodology, adopt a public debt management strategy that will clearly define what the limits of the debt are and that the Government comes out with priorities, so that any new borrowing and any new project can assess what are the positive effects of this borrowing. In any case, the thing will be completely stochastic – it can be, but it doesn't have to be. Unfortunately, our experience from the previous four years has been saying that whenever it was, it could be, and it doesn't have to, it wasn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3928	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3929	When you talk about priorities, first of all, this is a loan inherited from the previous government. We're a serious state, and we just can't cut things off like that. It was probably a priority to the previous government, from what you mentioned, especially for Subotica. Negotiations have been made, talks have been concluded, loans have been granted. You know very well, because I know that you are, not in this business, but you have generally participated and you know what negotiations with international institutions look like, and so you know that there's a lot to be prepared from documentation to get one such credit at all. But when you speak at all about Subotica itself, it is not that I want to defend Subotica at all, but the Law on Public Debt very clearly in Article 36 states that – the amount of the settled long-term debt for capital and investment expenditure cannot be greater than 50% of the total current revenues of the local authorities' budget in the previous year. It's 25% for Saturday. As you have a member of the 36th, unless the local self-government unit can pay for it to inform the Ministry of Finance that he is unable to carry out his duties based on borrowing. The finance minister then suspends the transfer of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the level of unmistakable liabilities, which means there is certainly a mechanism for such things to be stopped. When you mentioned the Law on Public Debt, I believe that this law, at least as the Ministry of Finance has said, will change and coordinate, given that it was adopted in 2006 and that some things have to change in that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3930	Thank you. Mr. Beard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3931	Thank you for your response. Of course, a serious state can't make a cut overnight, but also every serious government has to come out with priorities. So he says our priorities are this and this, and these are inherited things. Then make a clear distinction between what he wants and what he has to do. As for this data relating to Saturday and the implementation of the budget and legal constraints, I deeply believed that the government of the Republic of Serbia was supplying accurate data, and then Minister Dinkic convinced us that the previous government had haired the data. That what it says on paper, even when it comes from the government, doesn't have to be true. As for suspending, suspending the budget, if you look at the budget of the city of Subotica when you see that there are salaries of educators, electricity costs, telephones and other things, I doubt the government will just deny children in schools heating. If so, then I expect "Serbigas" to rule out all those defaults in the next period, that EPS will rule out those defaulters and that they will all introduce order. And you, and I know very well that it can't work like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3932	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3933	I totally agree on the priority plan. The Ministry of Energy, for example, develops and protects the environment, finalises the document, the priority plan and investment in the field of energy and environmental protection. I think it's an important document, but not to be like those documents of previous governments, so the previous government has brought over a hundred strategies, and no strategy has been realised. So it's not just that, it's that the government as a government accepts that document. That's just gonna be our plan. I believe the other ministries that are in their portfolios will have the same document. So I fully agree on the priority plan, especially in this situation where the country is.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3934	The next reported one is the People's MP Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3935	Dear President, Madam Minister, fellow MPs, we in the LDP believe that railways are in very poor shape, that the conditions under which we give guarantees for this loan are that this loan is a very good interest rate that we get from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. But we suspect that the Action Society of Zeleznica Serbia is also able to realise these projects that stand in reason at all because they are in such a situation, in which they are located, whose will remains to be seen and not only are they unable to realise this project, but they are not able to repay the loan for which the state today provides guarantees. Since the state is the first guarantee of credit, then the loans themselves will return from the Republic of Serbia's budget. You're Madam Minister right when you say, and you replied to one MP, that you could only get credit for those parts of the railway line that you have completed the project documentation. It is perfectly normal that no bank nor the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will lend loans to parts of any infrastructure project for which we do not have the necessary project documentation. In that sense, as an MP coming from eastern Serbia, I want to introduce you to a situation you may not know about, which is that the railways in eastern Serbia are, I think, one of the worst railways in our country's territory. There are a lot of MPs here from eastern Serbia, there are MPs and from ruling parties, and they know very well that a few years ago the question was whether passenger traffic would be abolished in that part of Serbia. This is fortunately not done because some locals of certain villages cannot do it in a normal way and if they do not have railway transport to the municipality, they reach the first populated place, especially Negotina, where they have health care. But what you certainly don't know, and that's why I want to introduce you today, that the municipalities of eastern Serbia together with municipalities from Romania and Bulgaria formed the euro region "Dunav 21". The Euro region "Dunav 21" adopted a strategy for the economic development of our part of Serbia, Bulgaria and neighbouring Romania. The strategy also mentions a railway that passes through eastern Serbia, and the whole strategy is reflected in the fact that part of the railway line passing through eastern Serbia near the village of Mokrinj on the territory of the municipality of Negotin is connected with neighbouring Bulgaria, which means in Vidin. This would speed up the economic and economic development of eastern Serbia because in the chemical products industry in Prahovo, we have a large cargo port that is important for the country where this railway is now being transported to Macedonia. This way if a project documentation was done, which is what he wants me to talk about. If Serbia's railways are incompetent, so they don't have enough resources to do project documentation, I think the government of the Republic of Serbia should make an effort, given that they supported them, through the Euro region "Dunav 21" and neighbouring Bulgaria, and Romania. To make a project documentation so that during some of the next periods when we provide guarantees for railways and that railway in eastern Serbia would be rehabilitated. In this way, to enable the economic development of eastern Serbia because I believe that this government as well as each other should have been one of the priorities and part of Serbia from which I come because I believe we should all be citizens of the same order in this country. I totally agree that without the project documentation, we can't get a single loan. As I believe the same thing our MP Bojan Đuric said, that the railroad is in the state it is in today, as a stock company, is unable to implement what we will give them guarantees for. The burden of this debt will fall on the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3936	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3937	Just to point out, since several times already mentioned the sentence that the Serbian Railways will not be able to honour the loan. First of all, the money is withdrawn in the tranches, which you need to know. So, under specific projects. So no one will get 95m euros, but it will be according to what is done. Regarding this second part, the project documentation, I agree with you that it is the work of the Railways and the Railways will certainly have to make their priority plan, and the ministry in charge of the railways will send it away. I believe that we will follow it together and that every region is significant, of course, and that, considering the port you spoke of and I know what you're talking about and that's a significant part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3938	The next reported one is MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3939	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister of Government Representatives, in my discussion, the most I will remain at this very proposal for a law on ratification of the contract between the AD Railway and the European Bank for Reconstruction of Development where the guarantee is given by the Republic of Serbia. So, we all know well, dear friends, that rail traffic in Serbia is in one catastrophic state. Due to poor infrastructure, due to poor transport capacity as well as technological and technical lagging towards countries in the environment and countries in the EU. Therefore, under the urgency of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia must take action to modernise our railways and restore that transport capacity. I will try to explain to Serbian citizens the references of the railway lines in Serbia. So, about 3,800 railways were built in Serbia, one-third of which was electrified and if you compare with EU countries, there are over 50% of electrified railways. When you look at the infrastructure of our railway, you will see that only 7% of the two-wheel rails, and in the EU it is over 36%. And what is devastating, the average speed on our tracks is 28 kilometers, and the lowest speed in the EU is 50 kilometers per hour. Gentlemen of the Europeans, if we continue this way, we will only come to the EU in 2050. I want you to know that the railway from Belgrade to Thessaloniki was made in 1886 and then the share between Belgrade and Leskovec was transferred in five hours and 15 minutes. Today, and you know the route from Belgrade to Leskovac, trains pass in 6.5 hours. My esteemed colleague Stojcic from Vranja spoke about the problems of the southern railway and we come to the conclusion, we MPs and mayors that we should make a request to the government of the Republic of Serbia to be candidates for Serbia's entry due to this behaviour of the previous government, so perhaps the commission, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will one day prepare as a permanent member of our country. For these reasons, I expect this government to take some measures and improve the state of infrastructure. Trains on the rails of the southern railways pop up permanently, do not traffic regularly, we have complaints from the citizens of Toplička County who complained and my esteemed colleague Lapčević talked about trains regularly not being trafficked to certain places. So, what is important to say for Serbia's economy, and how important is that railway corridor as well as the Belgrade-Bar railway, to increase the transport on these lines annually 25%, and that the state has an annual foreign exchange inflow of 60%. However, in order to increase the volume of transport, we have to do something, which is that the highway tracks that are poured into these corridors are being renovated, rehabilitated and will take us about 4.5 billion euros over the next ten years. I hope that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will provide, but what is also miserable, is that we should think about a public private partnership, because the concessionaries are interested in restoring our railways, in concessions on certain passenger routes, as well as in the use of rail resources, warehouses, railway stations, and those resources could easily be used to rehabilitate railways. For our railway and investment in it, many financial institutions, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, many other European institutions are interested, but they are asking us to accept their standards. We must also point out that a strategic partnership has been established between the A.D. Railways of Serbia and the Russian railways and that the Russian Federation has received $800m of credit for the revitalisation and reconstruction of Serbian railways. Most of these funds will be used along Corridor 10, so 110 km will be revitalised on six shares, as well as what is important, that the construction of the Valjev railway will continue to be carried out towards Loznica and trains will be able to travel at a speed of over 120 km. Every smart state, and I hope ours does, takes care of that passenger traffic. Our assessment is that in the next period, if Serbia repairs these railways and trains can go over 100km per hour, it will increase the passenger transport between 10 and 15 times the statistics of 20 years ago. We will be able to go from Belgrade to Nis in two hours, and from Belgrade to Novi Sad in less than an hour. So this loan taken is a 95m-euro loan, returns in 15 years with a certain grace period. What is important to tell the citizens of Serbia, every loan that takes Serbia, is extremely expensive for us. I don't blame this government, the previous government has made a mess in every sense, has led Serbia to the bottom, and for these reasons, Serbia's credit rating is extremely low and every investment loan, for investment, will be extremely expensive for us. In addition to this discussion, he says, and we said that when it was budget rebalance, that public debt is over 60%, and GDP is below zero, inflation is double-digit so that it affects our credit rating and we'll hardly be able to take cheap loans. When it comes to this second law, which is the law on confirming contracts between the city of Subotica and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, there are some things that are not clear to us. First, we must point out that we at the DSS and how we advocate that the citizens of Subotica drink quality water, solve their communal problems. One thing I don't understand, at the time of the pre-election campaign, the government of the Republic of Serbia concluded on April 12th, the possibility of negotiating this credit arrangement. Imagine this, at a time of pre-election silence, this contract was signed on May 4th, so we're simply wondering if it's wind in the back of some political option, if it's helping a brother become president or something else that's behind all this. We simply want to discover this mystery, and probably the competent authorities will deal with this problem, and we also want the citizens of Subotica to drink liquid water, and to solve this problem with this contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3940	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3941	To start at the end, about Saturday itself, as I told your colleagues before, there are some things that can't be broken and as a serious state when we make certain negotiations and talks, and ultimately, according to a certain need expressed by local self-government and by law, then we as a serious state and a serious government need to respect it. What this government advocates in addition to the priority plan I have mentioned are criteria, what are priorities and what are the criteria for certain local self-governments taking of course certain loans from international institutions and I think it is significant. When you mentioned "The Railway" before, just to remind me, that this Russian loan that was given to "The Railway" for infrastructure, it's been in the budget for two years and hasn't been used, which is an amazing thing. I really trust the new government, first of all, the Resort Ministry will also deal with how it's actually exploited to have better infrastructure, because without it, I'm not sure we can talk about any more serious economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3942	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us laws on confirming the guarantee agreements that have already been signed. So if we don't confirm them, we're going to have a little scandal of our own and show that this country doesn't have continuity and that it's unserious. Especially important is the agreement to confirm the guarantee of the Railways, on the rehabilitation of the railway, given the quality of our roads and tracks. Every authority should be valued for what it leaves behind. So the former regime should also be valued and valued in quality by what they left behind, what they left behind in production, by what they left in shops, banking, roads. Here we should say that we are by the quality of the 132 roads in the world, and by the quality of the railways we are 135. So the quality of the railroad itself and the Railways speaks enough to those who exercised power and who were the ruling majority in this Parliament before us. No matter what they signed that contract, I believe that guarantee should be confirmed, first of all, because of the seriousness of the state. The quality of our railroads has already been talked about, because the average speed of our trains is 25 km per hour, and I think the wild west was faster that divissant was going, and our trains have been burned from our trains, and about our trains are going to those high-speed tracks at the speed of the snails, so it's necessary for those tracks to be rehabilitated. I'm saying that you're losing "the railroad of Serbia" and that these losses need to be controlled, since it's a state-owned company. Has anyone ever controlled this company before? It is indicative that, say, they get 16 billion subsidies, and that their losses are at 17 billion a year, which is losses per year, which is 33 billion dinars. That was about 330m euros. There are 18500 people working in the Railways. About 80,000 net personal incomes could be paid out of that 33 billion. For me, it's too much of a loss. As the finance minister said, it seems that like Sartid, it seems better to pay them not to do anything, than to give them subsidies to work, while they are almost not engaged in the transport of goods and services. They mainly deal with collecting subsidies from the state, paying personal incomes, which are far less than half the subsidies they receive from the state and still making 17 billion losses. The total accumulated loss in the railway is around 1.5 billion euros. That's what's left, what we found, an inefficient railroad, I've already said with what stripes, what quality of transportation of passengers and goods. Besides, we have this accumulated debt of 1.5 billion euros left, and of course, given the railways nowhere in the world is privatized, I don't believe there will be any public private partnership. Of course, that debt will remain a state that will have to pay for it, and the total value of our railway, as estimated, is about 2.5 billion. As far as I know, it's always a little overrated. I'm afraid the accumulated losses in the Railways, which should be invested, are not how many more billions of euros, almost equal property, or the value of the current railway property. It should also leave an illusion aside that the railroad will pay back some debt just by losing it, by having this accumulated loss. I have reason to believe that the debt under the guarantee we are now confirming will be paid as a government. Since the state is not the assembly building, since the state is not the presidency building, given that the state is not a government building, I want to say that what will be the subject of the state's return will be the subject of return to Serbian citizens. Today, when we confirm this guarantee or when the state is in charge, we need to be aware that Serbian citizens have to sign the note. Unlike the classic loan guarantee, where you want to be a loan to someone in private, you're about to choose whether you want to or not. Unlike that private guarantee where you look and the quality of the loan that you're taking care of, in this case, that's not the case. You personally see if the neighbor for whom you guarantee buys a tractor, buys a field, and makes out of debt a source of debt, and only then do you sign the guarantee. In these cases when the state is in debt and when we confirm guarantees, it's not that situation anymore. At this point, no one asks citizens of Serbia whether they want to be a borrower, so it's a kind of forced guarantee, and they need it to be clear to them, that they voted their representatives, the representatives chose the government, the government entrusted the state, the Assembly confirmed, by their own vote, that they wanted to be the embossed ones, and in the future they need to keep an account in the elections, that they do not want to choose some government that we recently saw behind, given that it was irresponsible, since it had spent budgets since 2000, almost the same government in continuity spent about 80 billion euros, in debt to the state of 18 billion euros. Internal debt is somewhere around 15 billion euros, and for all that money, it has made no decent roads, no decent railways, and production, by industry, the development of agriculture and the food industry almost does not need to be talked about. Unlike the classic guarantee, we also have here a specific guarantee for minors, given that the state has been in charge for 10 years. So, even underage people who are now eight years old will have to repay the debts for which we issue guarantees, or for which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has withdrawn credit or whether it has printed securities of value, or government bonds. A guarantee has also been confirmed here in the spring. I'm not arguing that we have to confirm this. What I would dispute is the guarantee we gave for the Belgrade Bridge. Unfortunately, this guarantee, as far as I can see, unlike those that are for the Railways, etc., for some public transport was not an important guarantee. That guarantee isn't confirmed. She waited for us to confirm her. Unlike that guarantee, the guarantee for the Belgrade Bridge was confirmed, as I recall, early spring this year. He confirmed the former assembly meeting, which we inherited. The guarantee was worth 160m euros, and it is so quickly and easily confirmed that it simply amazes me from the former government. When we take that debt, which is allegedly the debt of the City of Belgrade, it is unlikely that it will be returned from whoever withdrew those funds and that will also be a government debt, I wish that guarantee had not been confirmed, and I would seriously consider whether to confirm a guarantee for a bridge that seems to serve only his maker, the first man of this city, who, by that bridge, will most likely translate the thirsty across the water, because I do not see any of his great purpose. If we want good to this country, in the future for access to traffic around that bridge, we should not issue any guarantees, given that Belgrade is over-indebted, and on the other hand, I think it is cheaper to build another effective bridge of 30m euros that will go out on some of the roads and thus save perhaps another 400m euros, which we need to make access to the bridge over which a very small number of vehicles cross at this point, and I generally believe that it is high and long to make those who need to transport thirsty across the water as thirsty as thirsty as possible. Speaking of Belgrade, it should be said that the guarantee has been confirmed, although Belgrade City debt is 820m euros, is enormously high. It's even higher than it is with government debt. So when we take this first man in Belgrade, who on the one hand is making a public debt that has reached 820m euros, then we see double standards in behavior. His two private firms, which he has since 2005 and later since 2008, totalled $930m in income. He earned 930 million, with his public office at the same time. With a public office, it's 820m euros in debt, and in a private business, which has worked parallelly with it, it's good over $930m, so I don't know if it was about the spilling, because I have a reasonable doubt when I, as a public official, make a fat minus, and a private firm makes a fat plus. I believe, given the minister's presence here, that the government is also discussing the case. I'm sorry that today's confirmation of an agreement with Italy on energy, because I wanted to ask the Minister of Energy and I'm going to abuse her presence, so I'm going to ask her who got all the energy permits, or wind parks permits? Is it true that it was received by former energy ministers and their family members and that it was obtained by the sugar king Miodrag Kostic? In connection with this law that has been removed from the agenda, there is evidence in the public that the former energy ministers have been granted "wind parks" licenses and that besides them, it is Ms. Kora Udovicki or her sister, that it is Mr. Goran Novakovic and that it is the sugar king Miodrag Kostic and that in a period of 12 years, the state must buy out that electricity at the prices and sights of miracles, precisely from former public officials, so that it is another proof of the Javaljuk and of Serbia in which corruption was almost during the former government was legalised. In the end, I want to ask this government, since I've raised my hands since last year as soon as it's been established, are we going to be dealing with raising production if we don't solve the issue of production and raise agricultural production that isn't high despite our exports being large? It's big because we've lost over 400,000 residents in the last 20 years, it's big because 400,000 people have moved away. He died as much as he was born, and so there was a fall in purchasing power and we became an increase in food exports. I'm interested in whether we're going to turn down the bars and try to create an environment to increase agricultural production and food industry, since agricultural production, as it is, participates excessively, with almost 18% of GDP, and on average Europe and developed countries is 2%? I'd like for agriculture to progress even more, but, compared to agriculture, to develop a processing industry and to develop all the accompanying actions that can be followed by each other, to build our own roads and tracks by increasing our social product and trying to transport our goods. The former government system was - foreign banks, foreign trade chains, foreign goods. The question arises, all to build these roads and stripes, whose goods are we going to transport? I will vote for this, but I want the people to know that the old government has left almost 18 billion public debt to the new government, that the internal debt of citizens and businesses is almost 20 billion, behind them are works and misdemeanors that future generations will try to pay off.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3944	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3945	Thank you for your presentation on a few things in the field of energy. One is an agreement with Italy, which has been withdrawn for the reason it is necessary to supplement the annex with certain projects. As I said once before, there have been some changes, as in this relationship, other countries, such as Republika Srpska, are participating in an energy agreement with Italy, and hence Montenegro, related to some of the projects. For these reasons, this has been withdrawn, in order to make a complete approach to the annex regarding the projects under the agreement. Another story is the privileged electricity producers, which you mentioned, related to wind parks, i.e. both solar and biomass and geothermal energy and small hydroelectric power plants. I would say that the worst thing in previous governments was that energy permits were given without any previous public calls. The deal was in four eyes with the minister and then the minister gave energy permits to everyone. Certainly and brilliant potential investors, but maybe even those who couldn't respect everything they needed. They came with projects, the projects weren't realised, and as a result, we have a situation that today Serbia has over 150 agreed and 180 energy licenses. The result is seven small hydropower plants, not one wind farm, not one solar power plant. So these are some things that are consequences. If you ask me who are the specific owners of wind park companies -- I think they're part of the ownership, as well as some of the former NIS directors from some of the previous governments. Obviously, they did it according to the laws and laws and rules that were made for them right now, that is, so you can't do it, that is, to subtract such permits right now. What we're doing as the Ministry of Energy today, we've done a full review of all energy permits, we're changing the Energy License Regulations, where we're just putting in a clause, that whoever gets an energy license is required to do something in that investment project that he gets an energy permit for. If he does not respect it, then the energy license will be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3946	Mr. Risticevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3947	I'm glad you indirectly confirmed that this is about these people, by forgetting that unfortunate Vukčević. Just another quick question, I apologize, it's my failure, can those mentioned persons of that energy license resell? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3948	Here you go, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3949	According to rules that exist, which are now changing, as I said, they have the right to resell energy permits in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3950	National MP Dragan Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3951	Thank you. Today, when it comes to a topic which, I would say, of broader importance to Serbia, many governments have tried in the former SRJ to solve the issue of traffic corridors, above all, in railways. However, the only way to do so was to put out minor fires. Addressing the issue of railways, I think it is a more comprehensive character and is related to the development of the economy of a society, to the use of railways in the provision of transport services, so that both efficiency and, that fundamental thing, the economy of the use of these resources would rise to the level of economics, i.e. to get some income that satisfies the avoidance of subsidies by the state, i.e. strengthening capacity. I think it's a good story to try to break up in general that can have economics, have efficiency and slowly fix one sector at a time. It's not just about building a railroad, you can do whatever you want, if you don't have something to ride that railroad and do something, make an economy and generate income, then there's nothing to do with it. There are numerous examples in the previous period where various loans were taken, but there is no telling where they ended up. I mean, for some, you know where they ended up. It's likely that, in the next period, there'll be a discovery of what's really been going on. But I think we should give it a chance to, in this period, when it comes to loans from the European Bank, try to withdraw those funds. It is necessary to put resources into all those jobs where we can help develop the economy and domestic society, even in that part. What matters to me when it comes to railways, I think it's more important to reform the sector than at this point individual and selective financing certain jobs. Subsidying the obligation to, but in the short term, as some part of the sector is reformed, then return them to economic flows to make revenues themselves. Definitely no one in Serbia has given up railways, but I don't think it's done right. It was often the subject of political bickering, to be honest, was also used as a monopoly for some important politicians to make some revenue in it, because there was a huge resource, so in iron there was all kinds of things, and it ended up in the area of public procurement of railways and everything. To be honest, if there is a realisation of this Russian loan and if this loan of the European Bank comes to a level of realisation, I think it will create conditions that this government and this ministry finally catch this right path that will be able to regulate and this rail traffic, and a huge number of people who live on it, lead to the threshold of tolerance and social independence, that people are not to this extent social dependence, depending only on these lowest earnings, to raise and the level of financed employees in that area. We often clash here with trade unions that have been politicized to the maximum and used political purposes. I have the impression that at this moment and in unions, the consciousness we are in has grown and yet one step of development is caught. It seems to me that with these means that defines the Russian loan, plus this loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the purchase of new locomotives, new motor vehicles, should bring a different picture. It may bother someone, but I think it's a great program to reorganize and rehabilitate all the old objects. They're old railway stations that were built in some style that's far behind us, and keeping it in one of the historic ones, and let's just say, functionally. And large countries, such as France and England, where the railway has indeed been a tradition for hundreds of years, over a hundred years, I want to say that they are guarding these risks and using them today in regular traffic, i.e. to do business with passenger traffic. What seems to me to be a little bit perceptive is hard times, sanctions, times we've been through, bombings, destruction of numerous railways, where the state used everything it had of financial resources to recover and restore rail traffic to normal. I think it's one good thing we can't give up. When it comes to solving the problem of confirming the Guarantee Contract in the provision of water systems in Subotica, I would like to make sure that the water system is accounted for. Obviously, in the previous period of the previous government, the Ministry of Agriculture had everything. I must say, I've had some business done in the Sword. Our former minister, Petrovic, with some Sremska Mitrovica Sremska Mitrovica, brought in an agency and worked jobs on the reconstruction of networks and canals, but also dikes. Strong money was given to the company "Group – Danube aggregates", owned by "Dunav group" Dusan Borovica. They took pictures in an election campaign. Strong millions are given. I wouldn't say that so many millions were invested in the part that was made, but over 50 acres of forest went missing. They're finely immersed so you don't see that there's anything there. The inspection services that went out in the field to see it, they were told to return home and not make a record. Anyway, the woods are gone. Individuals got used up, someone more, someone less. Millions were taken by big players. I wouldn't want anything like this to happen with this project when it comes to Subotica. I'd like to take care of every little thing. It's just that I get the impression that every penny you get needs to be invested in smartness and create conditions for our businesses to work. To say that even though the Danube Group won that contract, there were more subcontractors. There was no Danube Group anywhere. Generally, some Croatian subcontractors appeared, so they had their subcontractors, etc. I hope the Ministry of Agriculture will pay attention to this, as well as those contracts. As far as the Ministry of Energy is concerned, it has my support and every other support and people who lead. The efforts of this ministry are enormous to preserve one of the country's key resources and deserve the greatest attention of all of us and the desire to help them as much as possible. What I want to say and what President Tomislav Nikolic said are two chances. One is energy, one is agriculture. It's not for nothing. These are Serbia's advantages and Serbia's high chances. I think these two ministries that I mentioned, agriculture and energy, will be the key drivers of the development of Serbia's economy in the coming period. We should support the Treaty on the Guarantee of Railways with the European Bank and confirm the Treaty on Guarantee for water system improvement projects in Subotica, because Subotica is in one area that needs to be encased in the channel system and create a population of conditions that it can live more easily than it has ever been, because it is a very valuable and honest world that deals with agriculture. I think we should in principle support both of these laws. What stings my eyes is if we can stop all these currents. We haven't stopped all the points of corruption, especially in those areas where huge projects are, where big jobs are ultimately one support for the Ministry to continue and endure in all of this as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3952	Thank you. MP Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3953	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to speak more now about the Railway for Moral Reasons, since I grew up in the railway family and out of respect for my late father, I wanted to say something about some time when he was working and about the time he was doing today. I remember the railway at the time, which in some ways was the pride of this country and the respect of all the people who worked there, and their status, and today, when we are compared to Europe in the last place at the speed of our trains. It's terrible to compare some period with today in Banat, when trains run through Banat at a speed of 30 km per hour and only the Indians are missing to run past them and that we have a complete Wild West. So how do you treat the proposals of these two laws? Just say that we can support them because someone has already signed it, and so that we don't be insecure as a country and no other way, because wherever we bury it when it comes to any area of our social life or which segment we find a disaster and heritage that's sad and miserable, you can't find a beginning or an end to the problem and how to approach it and how to solve it. On the other hand, we see through these two laws and completely wrong access to problems. It all worked out partially. It all worked out chaoticly. Everything was solved from case to case and from influence to influence, from party to authority in a city or from their ability to provide state funds only for their city. If we fall into that trap and start talking, as I just said about the Banat railways, and someone's talking about eastern Serbia, someone for the southern railroad, we're going to get into a situation that looks like a ship with a thousand holes and now we just want one hole to blow, hoping that the ship will survive. No, he's going to sink because these railways we have today can't even support themselves, because this country and these citizens support the railroad, because they pay them every month. The railroad won't pay back this 95m-euro debt because I don't think it's going to be able to do it today, not in 10 years, not in a hundred years. It should be openly said that this is the debt of Serbian citizens, not the debt of the railway and the government of Serbia. If so, then it would be fair and correct if the railway management showed up here and came up with some plan to show what Serbia's railways look like, which are their plans for the future, where to invest, how to develop our economic life, where and what we will be able to transport, how will our production go in any part of this country and then create a serious approach to the problem and any one of them. This is how we get into a situation where we're going to hire our citizens and we don't know what we're going to get out of it. Is that what gives me hope, which is the minister's view that she will break up with such partial relations and that we will address all the problems in the country with priorities, with one systemic approach. That's what this country's future is. Are we going to have to do it through privatisation, as someone says? It is true that no one in Europe has private railways, but in Europe there is no one like ours. It's easy to be smart in a rich country where there's production, and so we'll serve all the problems, not just the Railways, but any other public enterprise. We have a major problem in the decline of production and lack of production. If we don't raise it to some higher level, we're free of all stories about the possible co-financing of any public enterprise, in this case the Railways. The second thing we're talking about is Subotica and the sewer and water supply project. There is no city in this country that has no such problem. There is no city in this country that doesn't need some guarantees from the government. Are we going to fall into a trap to keep going, all the cities can lift it up? The explanation that the transfer funds will not be given to these municipalities if they can't repay the loan, they're stories for children. There is no possibility for a municipality to be denied that possibility and that all citizens in that municipality would be put into one situation, that would be a general rebellion. Therefore, such an approach that someone selectively singles out is not good. I don't want to say it, because it would be politically inappropriate for this town not to. On the contrary, it should be as it should be for every other city. I'm going back to the story that this support is going because it's already signed and so that you guys are serious people. In the end, if I didn't talk too much about something that's already been done, I'd only go back to the system, I'd only go back to what's strategic, and I'd go back to that hope the minister gave. I have absolute optimism about her work in the first hundred days, when it comes to crime and corruption in energy and other areas, when it comes to one systemically organised approach, that this country be at the side of other countries, at least according to the seriousness of how it has its resources and resources for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3954	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their right to Article 96, want the word. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3955	Thank you. Dear President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would very briefly like to refer to the guarantees given by the IBRD, and it is about investing in railway infrastructure, especially as it comes from Vojvodina, and when the railways are mentioned there, the feeling of the citizens is nostalgia. Twenty-four years have passed since the moment Slobodan Milosevic announced Serbia's high-speed railways. After 24 years of Serbia's high-speed railways, we have the fact that the AP Vojvodina's ability to develop its railway infrastructure has been lifted. There was a railway transport company Novi Sad and Vojvodjani built railway infrastructure with their money and maintained it for many years to come into a situation today that the same ones that were developing the high-speed railways and today decide on the development of railway infrastructure. Today, trains are moving in, not only in Vojvodina, but across Serbia, at a speed of 45km per hour, which is slower than the first train that was trafficling between Mercury and Manchester, and it was moving at a speed of 56km per hour in 1829. This means that today when you start, say, from Saturday to Belgrade you travel almost three and a half hours and all that you're the biggest centralist, that you're a member, say, Dvery, and that you believe that there shouldn't be a province or local self-government, that you want to go to Belgrade for everything, when you go on a train, you must lose that desire. Because it takes you three and a half hours to get out of Subotica, through the plain, because the train moves at an average speed of 45 kilometers per hour. Twenty years ago in Vojvodina, there were 70 diesels of motor furniture, and about 30,000 people were transported by shinobuses. He's transporting around 400 today. The top investment in railway infrastructure is that Vojvodina is now assigned two diesel furniture. They're gonna buy another ten, and then we're gonna get two more. There are also some profitable lines, but there is no understanding that the renewal of these relations is being invested and that in 2012, citizens can be transported by rail at least between major cities. Col. Risticevic used this country's Western analogy, so he said trains move like in the wild west, or slower. If you're watching cowboy movies, you don't have to be a traffic engineer, so you understand the importance of the railways contributing to the development of cities, economies and are extremely important to the economic progress of the region that it is going through. Today, when you want to, say, come from Kickinda to Belgrade or Saturday to check if the Shinobus is even traffic, you have to wake up at four in the morning, so you can call the railroad, what to tell you if it's going to come at all. Indeed, there is really no reason not to invest more in infrastructure, not only in Vojvodina, but in all of Serbia. There was talk of a Russian loan, which was announced and which would result in some funds being invested. In this agreement that is proposed here, I see it is investing in the relations Belgrade-Rakovica-Resnik, Jajinci-Mala Krsna, Lapovo-Bagrdan, Paracin-Cicevic and Cicevic-Stalic. As far as the railroad is concerned, I think the absolute priority is Subotica-Novi Sad-Belgrade. I think that through the flat-rate areas investment in infrastructure, even most favourable, by making the effects of such investment multiple. What we could also analyse today is a general strategy for traffic development, as such, in Serbia. 80% of its traffic in Serbia is road traffic. On the roads, the way they are, we'll never have enough resources to make 80% of the total traffic by road. For this reason, there must be some broader strategy to develop rail traffic. I see there's an initiative to, by some miracle, develop air traffic. We hear 120m euros will buy planes for some new JAT. We'd like to see some physibilities of study based on which calculations have been made that this is a good investment, given that the growing airline in the world is failing. I don't see how little JAT can handle it. Despite an initiative that has arrived from some European officials, as far as I know, that fewer and fewer airlines from the region are trying to join together to create an airline that might have a future. I'm sorry Mr. Mrkonjic is not here, since the Ministry of Energy is not the address for this. Some comprehensive strategy of traffic development would certainly be welcome, so they would know what priorities are, and not if little, were to be given to the Assembly individual loans, i.e. guarantees where the state provides sovereign guarantees for public undertakings that have their own balance and exist as separate legal entities. By doing business positively, one day, they could be in debt alone, not that the state has to vouch for each individual loan. All in all, we support investment in infrastructure, but it would be necessary to at least make investments in Vojvodina territory that would allow people to travel, if nothing, at least 20 years ago, because rail traffic there was of great importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3956	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3957	I'm a little surprised because there's a man sitting in front of you who was Prime Minister in the previous period and he's a colleague of yours. So what you're saying now, I hope you've said that in the previous period and how you stood up for the government's priorities. This criticism you're now talking about at the expense of these guarantees is really unusual. I agree in one thing, that we need to have priorities. This government, unlike the previous one, will also come out with priorities in all areas, and we will take care of all the documents that we present and adopt. It's not going to happen, as it was in the previous period, which I mentioned, that over a hundred strategies were adopted in this country and that none of them were realised and that, in the end, we didn't even have a report on why something wasn't realized, so maybe we could change, so maybe we could see the reasons, the causes, and see what happened, so we could make corrections, etc. These are some things this government is going to do anyway. I'm glad you said that, but I really believe that you first needed your colleague in front of you to tell him and ask him for certain reasons, as well as the criteria by which some loans were taken. After all, we can also talk about the criteria of Subotica. Why just Subotica, why aren't some other cities also covered? I totally agree with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3958	Thank you. National MP Gjorge Stojsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3959	Just for a little while. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina has always advocated the return of railway infrastructure to the authority of the AP Vojvodina. I would understand that 24 years ago that jurisdiction was taken away, so that something else was done somewhere else with those funds was then directed to infrastructure on the territory of Vojvodina, but nothing was done anywhere in Serbia. I think of all the areas of traffic, we are in railway infrastructure far behind some European average. As for our initiatives, we have dated similar initiatives in every previous government, and we see no reason why such things could not be implemented, with your ministry really not being the address for this discussion at all, but I wish Minister Mrkonjic were there, so I would ask him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3960	Thank you. National MP Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3961	Mr. Presidential, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, just to briefly confirm, the first thanks to you, Mrs. Mihajlović, since one bill has been withdrawn, none of these three are really from your portfolio and this is very correct on your part, not only the presence of formal but also active participation. It is my duty to say that the URS will vote for all three proposals and I myself for a very simple reason. First, however much, this is Serbia, so we've listened to everything about what's not the subject of these guarantees, or the Ratification Act, but what is, the issue leads to Subotica. Apparently, it's been years, and it's been necessary for local self-government, whoever's in power. That's not yesterday's question. It was also necessary to find adequate projects and to provide credit and certainly, I suppose, like the others, if I followed correctly what the other parliamentary groups said, we would certainly vote for it. When it comes to something, I don't know what metaphors we've been listening to, these are specific problems concerning completed projects for part of the railway solution. If you think about it, I don't have to read it, I know it by heart because I'm from Rakovica, so I know what Rakovica means – Resnik in one historic core of Belgrade, we all know what Jajinci means – Mala Krsna, Lapovo – Bagrdan, Paracin – Cicevic, Cicivac – Stalac, but let's be serious. These shares were sung in folk songs. Since 1904, when the Belgrade-Nish railway was created and released, these are disputed shares. I understand it's been a good reason to remind ourselves of the indecisive, for decades of insolvent things. The question of the railway for Novi Pazar, I totally understand why you said it, but as you can see, we are still solving what was controversial in 1904. And then the discussions were beyond what was the topic of the agenda. I remind you once again, because of the citizens, in this part of the corridor, because of the constant problems in this part of the corridor, as in the case of Subotica, because of the citizens of Subotica, we will certainly vote for these guarantees to the same bank. So it's the most favourable loans, and I remind you it's the EBRD. What we mentioned, just to point out, it is extremely important, in the meantime, that it would not happen to us as in these cases, that after a few decades when it comes to order, we solve basic problems, the issue of the countries of Black Seaslive and Zakakas and our future co-operation with them, it is very important that, in the meantime, it does not happen to us as we could not activate this part of the railway project, in fact nine months, we will not be able to for another three months, one of the MPs has turned to attention, because we depend on the way the Assembly ratifys these types of agreements, because they are seeking a plenary session, they argue that it is no longer so. In this second case, when it comes to an agreement with Georgia, we're going to meet. We are in advance solving a whole series of future legal problems that we will need in further cooperation and, of course, we will also vote for this agreement. That's all I wanted to tell you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3962	Thank you. MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3963	Mr. President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I would say, and I have listened very carefully to today's debate, is that I accept, I believe, a well-intentioned suggestion from my colleagues, that the railways of Serbia are not a public enterprise but an action society, and I really thank you for that suggestion. What I would suggest primarily to you, but also to the other chairman, is that we should respect the Rules of Procedure. Today I've heard different debates here about the amount of documentation needed to raise some credit. We've also heard about the roads in Golia, we've also heard about the car decorators. I really don't see any connection of the decorator wagon to the dots that were on the agenda today. Also, what I'd like to say is, some colleagues who have talked very specifically about the railways, and I think that's the topic of the agenda. The railway section of Corridor 10 passes through Serbia one-third of its total length, about 767 kilometers away, that, unfortunately, 92% of all freight traffic goes through Corridor 11 through Hungary and Romania which is further but is faster and safer and only 8% passes through Serbia's territory, which means 8% of our income is from Corridor 10, and much greater potential and capacity, 4.7 billion euros are needed to complete the railway section of Corridor 10. What this proposal for a guarantee law differs from the previous one, and I remember well what was voted in this assembly two years ago, in November 2010, what this bill says – 95m euros for these and those shares, for the rehabilitation of those shares of the railway. What did we have in 2010? I can't help but remind colleagues who were members of the previous meeting, but also citizens of the Republic of Serbia, 100m euros in debt, the same kind of guarantee contract we brought here. Where was that money spent? We bought locomotives. We don't have railroads, we buy locomotives. Where are those locomotives now? What are they transporting? Nothing, they're standing in the dumps, and that money has to come back. That is why this is the value of this law and therefore the SNS will support this bill in the voting day. What I would suggest is that the rehabilitation of the railroad is not just done as it has been done so far, half-machined, half-hand, that there are whole compositions where everything is done automatically, where the track is recycled, where the largest number, the largest amount of material that is raised again and returned. I suggest, not your ministry, but the ministry that this job will do, that it does it that way. We've also heard of a trip to Golia. What I must say is that the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, has paved the way for the Golia, which the people of Gola have been waiting for for decades. Unlike the previous period when the former president of the Republic took a picture next to one of the badgers and promised engine veys. There was nothing from the engine or from the road in that period. Unlike the previous period when the hardness and quality of the asphalt was questioned by the fact that the President of the Republic bent down and caressed the asphalt with his hand, and you all saw something like that in the pre-election campaign, taking over the role of the supervisory authority. The final question, I am sorry that the former Prime Minister has come out, for you and for the representatives of LSV – why has the law on railways, which has been discussed both in principle and in particular, not been passed in the previous term? Who hitchhiked the bill? We are all now fighting for railways in our region, in Vojvodina, in eastern, western Serbia or anywhere. Why wasn't the railroad law passed? Was it the condition where these locomotives bought for 100m euros would end, how much did we owe in November 2010? The profession spoke – a depot in Nis, and politics said – a depot in Novi Sad or Zrenjanin. That's why the law wasn't passed. The only one in the previous term that was, the debate was both in principle and in particular, and the law was not passed. Of course, in one sentence I will repeat, the SNS will support these legal proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3964	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Although, I must say, I urge you to show a little tolerance for colleagues who experience these contracts in a special way and thus speak in such a way. The SNS Group has two minutes left. Will you use those two minutes, Alexandra? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3965	Dear Chairman, at first, I didn't want to go into details on the general contract relating to the European Investment Bank and project financing, but I am sorry that the representatives of the LDP and the DSS, who had some criticism on this proposal and on exposure, kind of jumped into their mouths. Why? Because LDP should advocate the liberalisation of the market, and it is precisely the separation of infrastructure from transport, i.e. from drivers, that is to create a basis for fighting competition in the market and, ultimately, the launch of a larger flow of goods and services. As it is on the railroad, so it should be in other modes of traffic. As for this part of the contract for Subotica, I am sorry that the representatives of Vojvodina are not so fond of supporting this project. On the other hand, I ask the minister that, as the ministry has done so far in this new assembly and has been one good way to create an environment for investors for certain investment and infrastructure projects, so it remains actively involved in the implementation of these projects. Why? Because the railway cannot without energy and part of the work that will be financed will be directly involved and connected to energy, and the second part of the creation of the water network of Subotica will be directly linked to the problem of wastewater – the Ministry of Environment, which is led by Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlovic. I hope that you will support this proposal for a bill on guarantees, and I hope that there will be no dispute over this on political grounds, and that you will vote for these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-31-0.u3966	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered, we have exhausted all the registered representatives, i.e. the presidents of the parliamentary groups, I am concluding a joint single search on: a bill on the confirmation of the Treaty of Guarantee (AD Railways of Serbia: Rehabilitation of the railway) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee (Ad Railways of the Water Systems in Subotica) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on Co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters. At the same time, pursuant to Article 101(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I am terminating the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2012 to hold a new session of the National Assembly, which you were informed of at the meeting of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2012, which was called for tomorrow, that is, on Thursday 1st November 2012, starting at 11.00 p.m. This came due to the urgent need for the National Assembly to review and adopt the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which is in the proposed agenda of tomorrow's session. You will be informed of the follow-up of the suspended session in a timely manner within the meaning of Article 101(5) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I thank the Members of the People.
