ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4826	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE COURT OF STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT The eighth session of the Second Regular Session (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on November 22nd 2012 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 11.10 p.m. The session is chaired by Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4827	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 163 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, before you move on to further discussion, today you have the right to ask questions, notices and explanations based on this article. Elvira Kovac picked up the first word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4828	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question will be addressed to the Ministry of Health and RZO, as based on statistics from this particular fund we know that every seven or eight couples in Serbia have problems with sterileness. In the Republic of Serbia since 2006, RZO has funded the out-of-body fertilisation process, and since 2010, every woman in Serbia has the right to two attempts at out-of-body fertilisation. It is being conducted in Serbia, currently in four state clinics, which are KCS, KC Nis, KC Vojvodina and the GAK National Front in Belgrade. So, at two clinics in Belgrade, one in Novi Sad and one in Nis, and as we all know, half this year, because of the overbooking of these clinics and the creation of a very long waiting list, waiting for two to six months, and some couples have been waiting since summer or May of this year, there are several hundred couples and the Republic Fund has addressed the Ministry of Health for obtaining consent to public procurement for out-of-body fertilisation services and in private clinics. A few days ago, news broke in the media that another tender had failed to include private clinics in the out-of-body fertilization process, and my question to ask is why this happened, since it remained unclear, because we heard from one side, one of the reasons that all bidders had re-supplyed wrong offers, and the question is whether this is really possible and whether this is the reason for the failure of this tender. On the other hand, we heard the argument that the state doesn't have enough money, money for out-of-body fertilization, and that's why the last tender didn't work. Is that so? If this is the case, there is still the possibility that more funds are planned for these purposes for next year. What is encouraging is that two days ago news was published at a public service, a new emergency public procurement will be called for the inclusion of private clinics in the out-of-body fertilisation process on the cost of the state and this should be called on Monday and will not last longer than two weeks. My question is whether it stands, is it so, whether this emergency public procurement will allow extra-body fertilisation for 450 couples, which would be extremely significant. Since we've heard from the Fund's director, he says that there are funds, as he says, living money has RZO, if that's the case, why, by some estimates, 100 babies are missed this year, when we know what our birth rate is like. Why are many couples waiting, why are some women running out of time, the biological clock ticking, and indeed, how is it possible that this same Director of the Health Insurance Organization says, which is good, that the state will help all these couples and how it is possible that he says that the papers collected by these couples will be valid until further notice, when we all know that the swab findings are valid for three months, and the hormone findings are six months. It is commendable and extremely good that these couples have the chance of having two free attempts at the cost of the state throughout Serbia, and it is commendable for each of them that the director has said and that everything will be done to help them. What's real on the ground, that these couples have to do a lot of analysis to do in private, to pay all of that and what they need to pay attention to, is that communication between different institutions is at a low level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4829	Thank you. For the next word on the list, People's MP Olga Batic was reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4830	Thank you. Dear President, fellow MPs and MPs, I have the first question I have to ask the interior minister, at the same time the prime minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic. Since I've already asked Mr. Dacic and asked him a question about the car accident that took place in Bora, which was blamed by police officer Perica Arsic, who in the event of serious physical injuries to two minors, I ask Mr. Dacic, when he will answer me, will I even get an answer to my parliamentary question that I asked more than three weeks ago? Also, I would like to remind you that the Democratic Party, like the SPO, is committed to achieving the full principles of democracy and the public in the work of ministers. If Minister Dacic refuses to answer asked parliamentary questions, then we believe that democracy in Serbia has been seriously threatened and that the work of the MPs has been defused, but that the work and the dignity of the National Assembly itself has also been violated. I have another question to ask Minister Verica Kalanovic. Namely, my question is – how many loans and guarantees did the Development Fund approve during 2011 and in 2012, and how much money from the loan was recovered during the two years? The third question will be asked by the Minister of Culture. Namely, what has the Ministry of Culture done and what will the Ministry of Culture do in the first place in order to establish a creative system of values in Serbia, and all for the removal of the spine, ham and reality of trends that rule the Serbian cultural scene, as well as whether the Ministry of Culture has or does not have any position on the issue at all and on how much public service Serbia is achieving the cultural policy programme of the ministry and does such a programme exist at all? What is the position of the Ministry of Culture on this issue, and does the Ministry of Culture have any co-operation with RTS or RTS at all, that is to say, to call "their cultural programmes" independently from the Ministry of Culture, as well as when was the last meeting held to this end, right between the representatives of the ministry, or the culture minister and the director of RTS? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4831	Thank you. MP Gjorge Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4832	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would have a question for the Ministry of Justice, perhaps also for the Ministry of Finance, and it concerns the completely incredible case of professor, Mr Zoran Pavlovic, who teaches history at the elementary school of Despot Stefan Lazarevic, who on May 21st of last year led students to teach from Kosovo and Metohija in the framework of the event "Little prom, big heart", and who received a tourist inspection in Kalimegdan because he was illegally engaged in the affairs of a tourist guide. The business of a tourist inspection which is in the domain of which it deals, completely unbeliefed, the Ministry of Finance is something that the State Secretary in that ministry has already given an answer and we have somehow learned from the public information funds that the inspectors concerned have been rooted, because a huge mistake has been made. But what is much more, or much more worrying, is whether the Ministry of Justice has made an insight into the conduct of the Criminal Court, which apparently without any analysis of this particular case, managed to punish the professor concerned and to give him notice on the punishment written by the municipal police. This case concerns for several reasons, and I think most of it is the fact that the various inspections that are republican are to this extent alienated from the citizens and that there are obviously people who either don't know the laws, or have come here in very strange ways. But the main concern is the court's conduct on the basis of criminal charges, without analysing what the lawmaker was in the first place and whether such a report could punish anything, seems to be punishable by automation. So, I'd like to ask the Justice Department to give me an answer if anyone's ever overseeing the criminal courts and in this particular case, what's the find of the ministry in question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4833	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Slavica Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4834	The Honored Chairman, Members of Parliament and MPs, Law on the Social and Economic Council, Article 10, quotes, says – The Social Economic Council is considering draft laws and proposals for other regulations of importance for the economic and social position of employees and employers and gives an opinion on them. The opinion shall be delivered to the ministry responsible for a specific area, which has drawn up the law, i.e. another regulation. The ministry is required to notify the Social Economic Council of its views within 30 days of the date of submission of the opinion. If the ministry does not accept the opinion of the Social Economic Council, the opinion is delivered to the Government. My question is, since the members of the Social Economic Council and representatives of the government, the prime minister and five other ministers, five union representatives and five employers, why are the 16 laws for which we are today starting the debate in parliament not at the Social Economic Council? I believe that social dialogue is at the lowest level and that at least those members of the government, who are on the Social Economic Council, must take account of it. This time, I only exempt the Minister of Education, who sent a request for an opinion to the Social Economic Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4835	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4836	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow Members and colleagues, my question has been addressed to the Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic, since the government determines and leads the country's policy, both internally and externally, I ask what about the Kosovo platform? It's been almost a month and a half since the announcement that it's gonna be in a few days, so in a week, it's about to. You know that drama that mentions "Jackna," she was supposed to die, and your platform was never born. During that time, the president of the Kosovo Committee deals with Gotovina and Markac, The Hague tribunal, and MPs here some days ago hold a press conference in the hall, in the Assembly building, and announce, though passive but also strong resistance to the agreements reached so far. What's this about? Did you accept the platform of the previous government, since half of the government is in this government? You've criticised the previous government for not having a platform, and now neither do you, or do you have a platform. While the Kosovo Parliament adopted its platform, it is already a month old, we have the latest document on Kosovo since July of last year, in which you voted largely to ask for a return to the state before 25 July of last year, in Brnjak and Jarinj. We now see Mr Dacic negotiating with Thaci agreeing to apply those agreements. Now by 10, he'll go back to Brussels to see you for the third time with Mr. Thaci and we don't know that platform of yours. Mr Drecun has only scheduled a session of the Kosovo Committee once. The session was supposed to serve to put Borko Stefanovic on the pillar of shame and that he was responsible for all the agreements so far, although everything he signed, or initialled, was adopted by the government and signed by Ivica Dacic as a government regulation. So now government regulations are being implemented, a government where half of those who were in this government are being implemented. Does that mean you don't need a platform? During that time, the president of the state goes to the academy, talks with Dobric Cosic and prepares a platform we have not yet seen. Who's running politics here, the president of the state or the government? That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister. I remind Mr. Drecun that at that session, we adopted one position to form a committee of inquiry, i.e. to propose to the Assembly the establishment of a survey committee to examine the spending of money in Kosovo. I haven't noticed that this has become a topic, and it's been almost a month since that session. So the question is, what about the platform, are we going to see it or are we going to get it when the negotiations are over? I remind you that the argument that it is only now only a matter of implementing the agreements reached so far does not drink water because to start negotiations we need other arrangements, on energy, etc., not to get into it. What's this about? Mr Drecun should be doing his job to comment on claims or threats made by lawmakers the other day, that President Nikolic should prevent the implementation of the agreements reached so far, or it will be a major passive resistance in Kosovo. How can President Nikolic prevent that? What are his constitutional powers? Who rules here, the government or President Nikolic? You've met several times in President Nikolic's office, and you say now they've agreed on the basis of the platform, and then he says we're not, but the government is now fixing something, the first document, the second document. We haven't seen any documents. That session of the Kosovo Committee was scheduled to receive information on the platform. We didn't get anything, everything's going to be a Borko Stefanovic store. So, a clear and loud question – is this platform working, will it be presented to the MPs? If you think that negotiations, talks and dialogue with Kosovo should be conducted without the knowledge of this parliament, then that is fine, most can always vote whatever they want, but I remind you that we have had quite a lot of activity earlier on about these declarations, the resolution. Objectively, they were all in the wrong policy positions. That's why we came here. We want to see that platform. You spoke to the widest consensus, etc. If the broadest consensus is that the platforms are gone, then we are powerless here. I'm looking for an answer as far as it came in making a platform for Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4837	Thank you. The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4838	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, disturbing events have shaken Serbia for the last few days. That's why my question was addressed to the police and to the Prime Minister. We all know that last night a flag was removed from the Red Cross office in Novi Pazar and then burned. When will the prisoners of this event be found and punished in accordance with the law? Also, a monument to a terrorist organisation called the Bujanovac and Presevo Liberation Army was erected in Presevo. When will that monument be removed? I remind you, there's still no board removed from Acifu Efendia? It's a big criminal and a Nazi occupier's associate. When they set up that board, it was said that the work of Achif Efendi had to be delayed. Since we know that his work was ethnically cleaned by Serbs in the Raška area, does this mean that even now it should continue with these parts of Achif Efendi? Repeat, the board hasn't been removed yet. So, the blood count of our country today is -- Serbia is at risk. Instead of the Prime Minister sending messages and with a certain amount of anger about how all this will be resolved, how monuments should be removed, nothing seems to be. All we have is a media show, and the action is behind. It is therefore important that the police, in accordance with the law, react and find the culprits of these events. Let me also remind you that representatives of the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities attended a meeting last year, that is, a meeting for a natural great Albania. Ladies and gentlemen, everything is well known when it comes to the south of central Serbia and who is destroying the country's constitutional order and who is disrupting the security of the Serbian state. Instead of a statement from the police that we always have an epilogue that the unknown perpetrator did it and that, let's find those responsible and punish them once. This will show that the state of Serbia is strong. Unfortunately, when the state of Serbia is weak, separatism swells. That's why I only want to remind you of one event. Former President Boris Tadic, instead of attending the mention of Serb victims in Bratunc, where he had never otherwise gone, went to Novi Pazar to open a Turkish cultural centre. It's one indicator of how state and national interests are collapsing. When you treat the state that way, of course they're building you a monument to a terrorist organization at the entrance of the Bujanovac municipality. That is why it is very important that, in a real and decisive way, instead of a media spectacle, the police minister, who is also the prime minister, reacts to stop this break-up of the Serbian state once. The Democratic Party of Serbia can no longer watch this, and it has simply never been able to watch it before, and now at this time because Serbia is at risk we are raising our voice in defence of state and national interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4839	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4840	Dear Mr. President, dear fellow Members of the People and the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this direct transmission, I have one question, which is a request from you, Mr. President. Here's the thing. A few days ago in the heart of the EU, a verdict was made in one city, with all the public opinion of all the political parties, as far as I have followed, even those who have called, all the NGOs, even those I personally did not expect to be declared in the unique condemnations of what happened in The Hague tribunal. Even with my eyes and ears on Sunday night, I heard a parliamentary party president, who told The Hague tribunal it was a political court. Do I need to remind the public and all of us that a statement like that from someone else ten years ago was the basis for the arrest? What's my question? Not to mention the fate of the victims, Serbs, of our citizens in Croatia. I don't want to talk about what happened in Croatia and how it's the Croatian people, we shouldn't lie anymore, he accepted. Whoever followed history has documents and photographs, it looks like April 10, 1941. Mr. President, I think we as the National Assembly must act. We heard that the UN General Assembly was scheduled, I first heard on April 10th, I don't know how it came to mind, but the latest we all heard on April 9th, where representatives of all UN member states will plead, will announce that verdict in The Hague. So I don't speak as a legal expert. I'm speaking as a citizen, perhaps by some chance as a MP. It's a great injustice, a planetary injustice, which has been done, I won't tell the Serbs, the people I haven't read or heard about my life. It's mocking the human race. So, Mr. President, if the General Assembly is going to declare the UN tribunal's verdict, I don't see why not the National Assembly. We will have time after the adoption of the budget, and I hope that the National Assembly will schedule one session in an emergency procedure, that we, as representatives of the people here, will come forward, especially if I believe that 90% of the MPs, from any parliamentary group, or even if those who have so far come forward, think as I do or so. I think that's the least we owe to victims, exiled people, murdered old men, children, shelled in refugee columns, which has not been seen since World War II in Europe. So, I expect in the best sense, as soon as possible, your reaction. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4841	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, before I ask my question, I would have to warn you that asking questions is not the place to tell the truth. A short time ago, we heard a notorious lie, that Boris Tadic had never visited Bratunac. It is widely known that Boris Tadic was in Bratunc and bowed down to Serbian victims. The one who denies it is either not well informed or deliberately not telling the truth. Let me get to the question I intend to ask the Ministry of Culture and Information about the reconstruction of the National Museum. The public has recently been informed by representatives of this ministry and the new director of the National Museum that a fundamental reconstruction is giving up, there is no money. Several years ago, the Ministry of Culture also decided to give up the main project by architect Milan Rakocevic because the project is expensive, because there is no money, although all consent, a building permit, has been obtained at that time, twice. My question concerns funds, which are currently being spent on the name of the reconstruction of the National Museum for, for example, the commission of experts, experts on various jobs and on the design of the documentation and the reconstruction itself, for the launch of a new architectural project, for the new idea project of the Government of Lojanica, for renting and renting a skeleton that has been for months, I don't know if it's clear to anyone, standing on the National Museum building, for compensation of the company "Culs Trans" for deposits built for the needs of the National Museum, and I think it is necessary for the public to finally know how much the Republic of Serbia has paid in the lawsuits that this firm had against the Republic of Serbia. I just counted some expenses. I expect the Ministry of Culture and Information to inform Parliament and the public in detail about how much money on the name of the reconstruction of the National Museum was spent from the moment the new project documentation was approached until the decision was made to give up that reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4843	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4844	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Association of Refugees has strongly condemned the shameful and scandalous verdict of the UN tribunal, which offends not only the evasive and exiled Serbs, the victims' families, but also all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The question arises – if Gotovina and Markac are not guilty, if "Storm" is not a joint criminal enterprise, who then expelled half a million Serbs from northern Dalmatia, like, Kordun, Banija, Western Slavonia, who expelled Serbs from dozens of Croatian cities? The question arises – who killed Serbs in today's Croatia? The question arises – who prevented 50,000 pensioners from getting back pensions, who made the decision to bring down 10,000 Serbian houses in terrorist actions outside the field of war in Croatian cities? The question arises – who made the decision not to pay for dinar foreign savings to damaged citizens, work experience and many other things? A similar situation is with Serbs who have been expelled from the Bosnian province and other parts of BiH today. Due to this, our coalition has decided to organise a protest walk over the UN tribunal's shameful verdict, which will take place on Sunday, November 25th, starting at 12:00 p.m. in front of the Assembly Church. The Prince of Michael will then go down the street, the Terrace, the Square of Nikola Pasic, and come to the National Assembly. The protest walk aims to condemn the UN tribunal's verdict and launch an initiative, i.e. a request for a special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to adopt a resolution on respect for the human rights of refugees and exiled Serbs and other damaged citizens from the former Yugoslav republics. We want this motion for a resolution and a request for a special session on Sunday to be handed over to Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and to ask him to convene a special session within a reasonable time. The aim of this special session is to adopt the said resolution, which would oblige the Government of the Republic of Serbia to raise the issue of damaged citizens, the mass violation of human rights of expelled Serbs in all talks with Sarajevo, Zagreb, Paris, London, Vienna, Washington and Brussels, and to initiate the opening of essential dialogue, to remove all problems from drawers of drawers and to find a fair and lasting solution to our problems. In that sense, I ask the Government to send a few ministers who would come along and walk with us from the Assembly Church to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, thereby expressing solidarity with our action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4845	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Donka Banović, Maja Gojkovic, Ljubica Milosevic, Milorad Stošić, Cedomir Protic, Branko Ružić, Ivica Tončev, Dijana Vukomanovic and Aleksandar Antić. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider the proposals for acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session on the 1st item of the proposed agenda to be attended by a representative of the promoter Istvan Pastor, the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, as well as Milorad Gasic, the secretary of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under the urgent procedure and proposals for the merger of discussions. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the amendment of the Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 2 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 118, against – no one with abstention – voted 58 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft tightening interest law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 120, no one, with abstentions, voted 55 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 November 2012, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 120, against – no one, with abstention – voted 56 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 November 2012, should be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 120, against – no one, with abstention – voted 56 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2012, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, no one, with abstentions, voted 145 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on co-operation in the field of energy, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 170 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the taking over of health institutions' obligations to large-scale drugs based on the purchase of drugs and medical materials and the conversion of these obligations to the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123, no one, with abstentions, voted 53 out of the 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2012, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 122, no one, with abstentions, voted 55 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Act amending and supplementing the Excise Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2012, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123, no one, with abstentions, voted 55 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2012, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote; 53 of the total 178 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123, no one, with abstentions, voted 54 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2012, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123, no one, with abstentions, voted 54 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2012, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, no one, with abstentions, voted 54 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the conditional write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, no one, with abstentions, voted 54 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law on settlement deadlines be put on the agenda in commercial transactions, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, no one, with abstentions, voted 53 out of the 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on public enterprises, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2012, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, no one, with abstentions, voted 52 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which submitted to the National Assembly on 21 November 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, no one, with abstentions, voted 52 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The United Pensioners' Group of MPs of Serbia, according to Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 16 November 2012, submitted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the United Regions of Serbia parliamentary group, according to Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 20 November 2012, submitted a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Both parliamentary groups have proposed that these proposals be made by emergency procedure. However, pursuant to Article 45(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the termination of the duties of a member or deputy board member and the selection of a new member or deputy board member, shall be decided by the National Assembly at the first next session following the submission of the proposal for a parliamentary group, and these proposals for a decision by force of the Rules of Procedure shall be included in the agenda of this sitting. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 2(2). 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: Joint principled Single Review on the draft Act on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 with a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2013; Proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Fund for the Health Insurance for 2013, Proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Fund for the Social Insurance Fund for the 2013 Social Insurance Fund for the period 2013; Proposal for a provision of a document on the provision of an agreement to the Financial Fund for 2013; Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Fund for the Social Insurance Fund for the Social Insurance Fund for the Court of Justice and the Proposal for the Law on the Law of Law on the Laws of Laws of Laws and of the Act on Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of the Acts of the Act on the Act on the Act on Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws; 2nd Joint Principles of the National Employment on the National Employment on Employment for Employment of 2013; Proposals on the Laws of the Laws on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws for the Laws of the Laws of the Laws on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws, Proposals of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Courts of the Laws of the Courts of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Laws of the Court of the Court of the Laws of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Court of the Courts of the Courts of the Laws, of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws, of the Laws, of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws, of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws, of the Laws of the Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, no one, with abstentions, voted 52 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 47 out of 176 MPs, for – 129 against. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Budgetary System Act, 2. Proposal for a Law on the 2013 budget of the Republic of Serbia with a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance for 2013, Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Fund for Health Insurance for 2013, Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for the military insurance for 2013, and Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for 2013, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, 5. Proposal for a law on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions, 6. Proposal for a bill on the conditional write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt, 7. A Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act, 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on Public Enterprises, 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, 10. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, 11. Proposal for a tight interest law, 12. Proposal for a Law amending the Insurance Act, 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, 14. Proposal for a Law on the Obligation of Health Institutes to Greater Drugs based on the acquisition of medicinal products and medical materials and the conversion of these obligations into the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, 15 / 15 Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, 16. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, 17. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions 18. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 19. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 20. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, We move to work on the established agenda of the session. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. You've received the government's opinion on the bill. I'm asking the People's MPs for attention. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament's groups, which is the details of which you have received in the material. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principled search on the draft law. Does the representative of the motionor, Mr. Istvan Pastor, president of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina want a word? Yeah. I'm sorry. National MP Judita Popovic advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4846	Thank you, Your Honor. I was forced to re-advertise Rule 127 because of the cards that were left in the electronic system, and there are no MPs. It would be good to finally decide whether we want to register or not, whether we want to attend or not. Therefore, if we introduce discipline, it would be good for MPs of the ruling coalition to primarily take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4847	Thank you. I completely agree with you. I mean the service of the National Assembly that those cards of MPs who are not present in the O.R. are excluded from the electronic system. I ask the MPs when they leave the room no matter how short it takes them to get their identification cards out of the electronic system and carry them with them. National MP Borislav Stefanovic gave up. Representative for the Proposing Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4848	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure that today, on behalf of the proposer of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, I may say a few opening sentences in the light of the assembly debate on our proposal. Before I go over that, I want to say that in no way would you want my position, my appearance here to be seen as Don Quixote's position, nor as the position of Kalimer, nor would I want to see myself in a position to call on responsibility or to attack, nor to see my address as an ambition to part. I want to say sentences that suggest that we have one problem that can be interpreted differently. It can be seen and interpreted as a question of decentralisation. It can be seen and interpreted as a budgetary issue. It can be interpreted and accepted as a financial issue, but it can and must also be accepted as a constitutional issue, as a matter of value system. Ladies and gentlemen, you will surely be able to say – who cares with whom I came and what I would like to experience in relation to my appearance. The more important thing is how I got here at all, and that's not a question that can be ignored at all. I arrived somewhere in July by having my first personal meeting with Mr Stefanovic as the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, and on that occasion he told me that he would like to be open to proposals that would come from the AP Vojvodina Assembly on the basis of the use of legal powers, that he would like to be open to amendments coming from laws and that he would like us to participate in a public debate on laws that are on the agenda and would pay attention to such possible objections from the public debate. As a result of these sentences that are easily spoken in politics, but it is not a matter of policy speaking but of credibility, and credibility is determined by checking whether a gesture, a step, a decision stands out of a sentence. I see that there is one credible sentence here, and I want to thank you here publicly, because I think that this step is a step that encourages us because it points to us as a potential authorised proponent that when we define certain ambitions, we contribute to the creation of a legal environment for social behavior. That effort is not in vain. Those suggestions can come on the agenda. It's a chance. From that point of view, I want to say that we want to continue using this possibility, but I also have to say - we do not want to abuse this possibility in any way. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past 12 years from the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina has been directed towards the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia 39 initiatives. Of these 39 initiatives on the agenda, three were found. One in 2002 and two in 2003, at a time when the Serbian government was managed by Mr Zoran Djindjic. Since 2003, in the last nine years, no single proposal has come to the agenda. From that point of view, I think this decision of yours, Mr. President, is your decision, honourable MPs, to step up. Step forward, because it's not just a procedural legal question, it's, in my deep conviction, a matter of trust experience. The fact that our proposals were left untreated with the aspect of this assembly's procedures, they had a message that we live in a trust deficit that is thought to have enough capacity in the central alone, well-intentioned to give solutions. It's a message that says that decentralisation is a sentence that is easily spoken, and that behind that sentence is more the famous saying of former politician Moša Pijada who said – we release power, but we don't let it go. This decision to take this on the agenda today is seen, on my part, as a message that points out that this practice wants to create discontinuity and that there is a chance that public life on the media side of the media, from the media sphere, is going back to where it belongs, and that is where decisions are being made. It's a signal to me that there's a chance to reduce the level of politics through the media, that it makes sense to think about the possibility of a serious debate, of dealing with arguments where decisions are made, and that's the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, using the authority that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina can propose legislation, we have put forward a bill in relation to the addition of the Budgetary System Act. The question is rightly asked – why now? Let me give that at least part of the answer. Because on September 28th, this year, the law was amended and that the change forced us to seek a step out of the situation that was created on September 28th of this year by amending that law. Why now? Because in less than two months, you can't do that. After the law was passed, we had a debate with the government's representatives. We launched the procedure before the Constitutional Court, but we thought it was a bar order of things to use certain solutions to try to find a solution in the parliamentary procedure. For that reason, we have defined this proposal that is here on the agenda today. Why not before? Because there was no reason before. Before 28 September, ladies and gentlemen, there was a solution in the Law on the Fundamentals of the Budget System that we were convinced of, and today we are convinced that it is constitutionally correct. The second thing is how it was applied, but it's quite clear, at least from our point of view, that this solution is constitutionally correct and correct. For those reasons, we couldn't have done it sooner. The proposal was found on October 25th by the Assembly. In two months' time, the proposal is here on the agenda. Before, ladies and gentlemen, I try to say a few sentences relative to the scale of this proposal, allow me to say a few sentences regarding those political flossules that are actually being used in public speaking. For example, Vojvodina is Serbia's locomotive, its most developed part. It's a sentence spoken daily, and that sentence came today into the category of political flossules, it's not true anymore. It used to be. Today is not true anymore. This is not just me, but it is from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who, by the Regulation establishing the degree of development of the region and local units, brought at its 30th session on 8 November 2012, means, now, the other day, that Vojvodina's insufficiently developed region, where the value of the gross social product is below the value of the republican average. Ladies and gentlemen, I could list a series of arguments, a series of confirmations as to why such a sentence cannot be disproved. I don't want to abuse time, but I'd like to say just a few of them. There are only 18 drinking water treatment plants in Vojvodina, and only 11 of the 22 wastewater treatment plants are functional. Channeling's only 30%. In the Central Banat district, no plumbing is fully physical-chemically correct, followed by a North Banatian district where water is invalid in 92.96% of cases. Over the past two decades, Vojvodina has lost 70% of social capital, or $16,000 per citizen. Vojvodina is now the first time in history to have a lower average of earnings compared to the Republic of Serbia. I could keep a list of the data for a long, long time, but I don't want to do that. I don't think this data confirms that today's locomotive sentence is real. The next flossula, ladies and gentlemen, which is being pronounced today, and I have to point to this, is in relation to Article 184. A constitution that says "AP has original incomes, which finance its powers. The type and height of the original revenue of the AP is determined by law. "The problem is that there is a delay in meeting the obligations of the Constitution and the law that is almost six years old. This has to be shown. I don't think it's a failure to call this assembly, but it's a six-year gap that can't be crossed, which must be spoken of. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you can say, it's safe to say that when you say it, then you say it rightly, that what I say about the situation in Vojvodina is by no means different from what is in the Republic of Serbia. When it's said like that, it's true, but in no way can it be an excuse that when we talk about this, we experience it pointing at us with a finger and saying that we want to destabilise opportunities, how we attack someone, how we want to take something away from someone. We're talking about this because we're looking for a solution. This proposal on the agenda today is an ambition to seek a solution. What do we have to look for a solution for? We should be looking for a solution to that familiar situation from the jokes, when a steamer sails through the navel in a two-member crew – captain and lodger. They hardly ever see each other, maybe once a day. Sometimes they talk. I'll give you a word. He shouts the captain from the deck - how much is he? The lock says seven. The captain asks, "What seven?" To this is the pot, and how much is it? Ladies and gentlemen, we have been in this situation for six years since the adoption of the Constitution that we have a constitutional guarantee that is unarranged. The constitutional guarantee is passed by law, by system law. Unfortunately, we have a situation that this constitutional guarantee has not been sufficiently defined, i.e. by amending the system law on the budgetary system, the constitutional guarantee is, in our opinion, diluted, tempered, spoiled, and for this reason, we have had the freedom to propose an amendment to the law. Let me say a few sentences relative to the scale of this proposal. I would like to draw your esteemed attention to Article 184(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to the Republika Srpska budget, with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures. The problem arose at the moment it was stepped up from the framework of the Budgetary System Act, from the framework provided by Article 2 point 23) which defines what the budget is. He says – the budget is a comprehensive plan of income and income and income and expenditure plan, organised in two separate accounts. The income and income account was made on the basis of the sale of non-financial assets and expenditure and expenditure on the acquisition of non-financial assets and financing accounts. The budget is a basic document of the government's economic policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the last amendment to the Law on the Budgetary System since 28 September 2012 has changed the basis for income, expenditure and expenditure, as well as the budget of the local authorities as a percentage of the budget or expenditure of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The foundation has been narrowed down, and in this way, we are convinced, a blow to the constitutional guarantee has been struck, a change in the legal framework, a legal basis for establishing the level of the basis which is the development of the constitutional guarantee. In this way, the constitutional guarantee was split, there was an arbitrary and weakened capacity for verification and trust. The solution initiated by the District Assembly, in our conviction, returns the solution to the constitutional sphere. I could list more arguments in this annex, but I would like to use only one today, which is that today at 9.30 p.m., the Constitutional Affairs Committee has determined that our proposal is in line with the Constitution. What does that mean now, ladies and gentlemen? Does this mean that the budget that we will have as the 2nd item of the agenda is not in line with the Constitution? We need to be clear about this issue. This can be seen as a budgetary and financial issue. If applied to the 2013 budget, this system law solution, which we want to change, will mean that 7% will be lower than 7% of the previous solution by nine billion and three weeks by 14 billion dinars. That's if we see the question as a budgetary and financial question. I think this issue must be seen as a constitutional and legal issue, a question of the rule of law, a valuable issue. Ladies and gentlemen, we think there are things that can't be slow about. We don't think there can be any dispute over whether the Constitution must be respected. We think it must be respected. We don't think that there can be any practice to determine something that is more than respect for the Constitution, which was a case or an opportunity in the past period, but we are convinced that the letter of the Constitution must be respected. I must say this time that a few months ago, with great regrets and misunderstandings, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia's decision was adopted in relation to the Law of Jurisdiction. Certain misunderstanding sentences have been spoken. Why is the problem now that we are giving one - time assistance to the families in which the child was born? That's what the Constitutional Court's decision says. However, I must explicitly say here - we respect the Constitutional Court's decision, whether we agree with certain elements or not. I think it's the only time we're building a society that fits the principle of a system of values for modern society in the 21st century state here in the middle of Europe. We're interested in that, and that's why we were free to make this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not looking for anything above what is a constitutional guarantee, but we'd like to contribute to devising a sentence that reads like this: "Life is like a groin, lions skip it, the sly pulls under, and only stupid ones stay in front of it." They're the stupid ones who know what's wrong, they respect the law and the regulations of their own country. Our ambition is to make sure that if we all act like one, we don't all get to be stupid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4849	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4850	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the AP Vojvodina, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, LSV is a party that considers that all the problems the AP Vojvodina has in funding jurisdiction stems from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's something we were saying when the bill of the Constitution appeared which was later and adopted. It's something we said every year twice a year in this assembly when the budget or budget rebalance was adopted. That's something we've been saying to every opportunity that's come up, and that's something we're talking about today. All the problems that Vojvodina has in funding its powers stem from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and until this constitution is changed, Vojvodina and its citizens will not have all the rights they should have, as I hope equal citizens of this country. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina was against the Constitution. Bojan Kostreš, as president of the Vojvodina Assembly at the time, is the only state official who called for a boycott of the constitutional referendum and for our great satisfaction the citizens of Vojvodina supported it and the constitutional referendum in Vojvodina did not pass, which of course does not mean that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not apply on the territory of Vojvodina. The reasons we were against the Constitution were numerous. Among them, for us, it may be the most important treatment the AP Vojvodina has received in this constitution. First of all, we were against giving up the Vojvodina Executive Council platform on the constitutional position of Vojvodina, which required that Vojvodina have legislative, executive, partial judicial power and original income and property, because that Vojvodina today has legislative authority, I believe that many problems could be solved that plagued citizens exclusively in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Among them, I think perhaps most interesting, with subsidies where if Vojvodina itself had the opportunity to regulate that matter, I believe you wouldn't have to, that the duchy farmers couldn't have the same subsidies as the malaria in the Aryan region. We were opposed to the constitution not being clearly defined by the authority of the Vojvodina, because now we have a situation that the Constitutional Court has decided that Vojvodina can no longer pay compensation to the families that give birth to the first child, who are giving birth to twins or triplets. In the end, we were against the Vojvodina Constitution getting only 7%, because we thought it was humiliation for both the people of Vojvodina and the Vojvodina that brought more money into the republican budget. Because, depending on the year, 35 to 55% of all funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget are being sent from Vojvodina to the Republic of Serbia. If Vojvodina returns only 7%, it means that only every sixth dinar that is earned on Vojvodina's territory is returned to Vojvodina, and such treatment does not have citizens of other parts of Serbia, and we believe that the people of Vojvodina do not deserve such treatment. In addition to the 7% number itself, it was disturbing and humiliating that today is being shown as a problem, and that is that it does not say anywhere how those 7% should be achieved. So since then, we have had various governments who have tried in different ways to convince us here in this assembly that it is in the budget, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that the Vojvodina budget is 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but it does not say anywhere that the Republic of Serbia should secure that money in its budget. That argument could only be true in theory and in the theory in which Vojvodina, for example, has its original incomes, its own financing revenues, so that it can make it up to that sum of 7%. However, in the scenario we now have, which is that Vojvodina has no sources of income of its own, the Republic of Serbia is obliged to secure that money in its budget. Because if you don't give someone a way to secure that money yourself, and you don't give them that money, then you force one part of Serbia that is very loyal to the Republic of Serbia to violate the Constitution, which is not the intention, of course, to the Vojvodina Assembly, or the government of Vojvodina, and by relations with the AP, you force the legitimately elected representatives of the citizens of Vojvodina to violate the Constitution in this way. Unfortunately, LSV and LDP were lonely in 2006 when they said the Constitution was bad for Vojvodina, when they said it was bad for the people of Vojvodina and when they said that the citizens of Vojvodina did not deserve such a constitution and that such treatment should not be given. That is why the partial responsibility for the situation in which we are today is borne by all those who voted for this Constitution, is borne by those who have promoted that provision of 7% as a great success and ultimately bear those who have kept silent about it and did not warn about the dangers of how such vague provisions can be challenged. Until the law on financing the mandate of the AP, the Republic of Serbia is required to provide 7% in its budget for the AP Vojvodina budget in a manner that will be in line with the constitution. Yesterday, on the Finance Committee, we heard from Mr Dinkic that there was some intention to create a working group that would be involved in making the law. Unfortunately, he said he would lead the task force. We are only left to hope that this will not be the case, but if that happens, I believe that the AP Vojvodina should also be represented in this task force in the right way. Meanwhile, when each budget is adopted, we have the same scene, the same story, the same discussion. If this law is not approved today by MPs and finally adopted in the Voting Day, not adopting this law will result in a figure of 740m euros that the Republic of Serbia owes to the AP Vojvodina from the moment of adoption of the Constitution to this day, if it is rounded up by the adoption of the 2013 budget. I don't know if MPs, do citizens know what 740m euros are? That's enough to say the Duke's ransom, both NIS and JAT. Serbia's oil industry has been sold for 400m euros, JAT's debts are estimated at around 170m euros, and the purchase of new planes at another 180m euros, totaling 350m euros. Then, the Russian railway loan is about $800m. If this law is not adopted today by the MPs, if the Republic of Serbia's budget is voted as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia without these changes that could be entered into the Republic of Serbia's budget, the Vojvodina budget will be damaged by 9.6 billion dinars. This is, for example, a similar price for building a tunnel through Fruska Gora, which will have to refinance and be in charge of Vojvodina again, and for that money almost three emergency centres of size and capacity such as the newly opened emergency centre of KC Vojvodina can be built. No one has the right to take that money away from the citizens of Vojvodina, nor does any of the MPs have the right to deny on behalf of the citizens representing those funds belonging to the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. Most of Vojvodina doesn't have proper drinking water. So, 10% of the Vojvodina settlements have a sewer network. The Duke's railroads have grown into weeds, and the Duke's villages are extinct. Vojvodina has about 200,000 unemployed, and it must help itself because of this it has representatives of its citizens in this home, to help it in its intention. Vojvodina will not donate 740m euros because 740m euros can be built, open at least 148,000 and up to 370,000 new jobs depending on how much construction costs, the creation of a new job. That is why, for the past six years, we have negotiations, talks, agreements, discussions with the republican government run by both individual parties and representatives of the Vojvodina institutions, we MPs here in the Assembly, and every time we have to convince, talk, negotiate, negotiate, or whoever wants to call it what is happening here in this assembly. However, by the arrival of the new government, by adopting the Law on the Budgetary System a month ago in this Assembly, these negotiations, agreements, talks, the point was put. First, the Republic government and after that, this Assembly has clearly told us that until this law is changed we will not have 7% of the guaranteed funds for the AP Vojvodina budget, because I am very sorry, but tax revenues are not the budget. The constitution does not say 7% of tax revenues, the Constitution says 7% of budgets, and tax revenues, unfortunately are not budgets. The explanation of the government that we received as MPs, the government's view that this bill should not be accepted that, it doesn't say much, it doesn't actually say anything, and no matter how carefully I read it, I mean the government's opinion, I couldn't accept the government's reasons why it doesn't feel that this bill should be accepted. However, what is seen from the government's proposal is the relationship to the Vojvodina that this government has, the relationship to the duchy institutions and through the relationship to the duchy institutions, and the attitude towards the citizens of Vojvodina. We have a finance minister who treats the government of Vojvodina in this Assembly as a group of gamblers and drug addicts who are going to spend the money of the Vojvodina because they are irresponsibly in charge to deal with the activities he considers necessary. We have all the representatives, a large number of government representatives who give false information that they will consult with the government of Vojvodina about the laws that appear in this Assembly, which concern the Vojvodina, and I will only remind myself that the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Minister himself seem to be, saying that the government of Vojvodina will be consulted when the Budget Act for 2013 is adopted, when it is the Law on the Budget System, when it is a rebalancing, and then we see that there is nothing from these consultations, and how much yesterday a representative of the Ministry of Finance said that because the Vojvodina administration has disqualified itself from these agreements, because it does not behave in a way that meets the high standards of the Ministry of Finance. We have a budget to discuss tomorrow that is crawling with fake figures, frauds, which are only there to make the AP Vojvodina budget look bigger, to make it appear that the figure of 7% has been reached, and in fact these are not assets that no law or any other way should belong to the Vojvodina budget, they do not belong to the Vojvodina budget, but only the Vojvodina budget is treated as some kind of flow boiler, because they are the funds that come into account one day and they leave it immediately the next day. We have government representatives who talk about the government of the Vojvodina as if it were an opposition party, which speaks of the Vojvodina Assembly as if it were some set of people whose only intention is to bring down the Republic of Serbia, and forgets that 120 legitimately elected representatives, two million people of Vojvodina, 60 of whom were elected personally in the name and last name, and who, unlike the MPs here for their work, have to answer to those who chose them, and not only to the parties who put them on election lists. At the very least, Mr. President, you are the first president of the Assembly to put a bill like this that comes from the Vojvodina Assembly on the agenda, but you did it in a way that is also quite humiliating to the Duke's administration. You put this bill at the same session when you and the Budget Act, which is actually saying that you have no idea that this bill, the proposal, could be adopted, because if it is adopted, it drastically changes the Budget Law, because the Budget Law was made under the old Budgetary System Act, so that the problem is, because if this law was adopted, it withdraws significant changes in the Budget Law, so that this would come about, and it will be voted on in the day of voting on both laws, so it seems to me that this more pro-forma was put on the agenda, without any intention that this law would really take some effect. The commendations go to you, I say again, because you have put it in the first place, because unlike the other presidents of the assembly, you have shown that you also appreciate the laws that come from the Vojvodina Assembly, except Mrs. Cukic Dejanovic, since at the time of her chairmanship of this assembly, unfortunately, no draft law has come from the Vojvodina Assembly. However, apart from this home, the Government of the Republic of Serbia clearly shows its relationship with Vojvodina, because in every new law that comes into this Assembly, and that its proposer is the Government, we see that even a little jurisdiction over the previous four years that we have managed to provide for Vojvodina is being annulled, erased, and Vojvodina is actually coming to that level of jurisdiction that it had at the time of the DSS government, which is not to be surprised. The proposals coming from the Vojvodina are treated as maltenes to attack the state, which the Vojvodina didn't deserve, which is not what the Dukes deserve. Vojvodina has always helped anyone who needed help, has always been in solidarity with other parts of the Republic of Serbia and the Vojvodina have never had a problem helping anyone in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me, this should be done by their will, not by being denied by someone who is intended for them and who belongs to them under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitutional Court already has a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the Budgetary System Act, which was adopted here a month ago and if this bill is not adopted and if the budget of the Republic of Serbia is adopted under the law a month ago, be assured that the same second before the Constitutional Court will be found and a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the Republic of Serbia's 2013 budget, although the way the Constitutional Court has been working over the past months, does not promise that the case will develop in favour of the citizens of Vojvodina. What is treated as an opposition to coming from Vojvodina, believe that anyone who advocates the interests of the citizens of Vojvodina will be an opposition to this government. I only have one more appeal for MPs coming from Vojvodina to put the interest of citizens who chose them in front of the party's interest and to vote for this law, because they still need to return to their municipalities and explain why they have denied the citizens of Vojvodina 100m euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4851	Thank you. Next reported for the word, MP Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go. Excuse me, Mr. Mijatovic, replica, Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4852	Dear ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4853	Mr. Ilic, just say the basis for the replication report.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4854	Based on this, Mladjan Dinkic did not call anyone in this parliament a junkie, or a gambler, and I replicate the occasion. I don't think this Parliament deserves to hear such things that are untrue first, and I want to say for the sake of truth, if we are already talking about what anyone said in this House, then it was about how funds are being misused at the AP Vojvodina level, specifically in the Vojvodina Development Bank, in the Capital Investment Fund, and that we never received a report as parliament on what this money is being spent on, not only us, not only the Republic, but also the citizens of the AP Vojvodina have never received a report on it. It was also said that the Republic of Serbia paid five billion dinars for the capitalisation of Vojvodina Development Bank, and the AP Vojvodina's four billion today, that is, 15 billion more these days and no one is responsible for it. It's not just about how much money they're going to get from the budget, it's about how that money's being spent and whether it fits? If the Republic has granted the powers of the AP Vojvodina, then the Republic has the right to exercise control and control over the spending of those funds. That control is disabled, it didn't happen, we don't get reports of that money being spent. So, the point of this discussion was not to offend anyone, but to point out the abuse of funds that are going on permanently and that there is absolutely no control, and that is not a criticism of the province's government, but criticism of both this Parliament and the government, because there is no control and control over the spending of funds in the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4855	Thank you. National MP Janko Veselinovic called. On what grounds, just tell me?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4856	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4857	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4858	Your Honor, you have injured an officer. 105, 106, 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because you have unfoundedly given a word to a previous speaker who has not called on any member of the Rules of Procedure, and has not mentioned anyone, and has not mentioned anyone, has spoken of a subject that is not on the agenda, accusing further unwarranted, unfounded, without the arguments of those who are not in the room, so I ask you, if you want this session to be led today in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that the MPs do not report to anyone who has come to mind for a word, but as it follows by the Rules of Procedure, that you warn the MPs, if they answer the word, and after that they do not give an excuse for what they have come forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4859	I don't think you're right, because I interpreted Mr. Ilic's report as an answer based on Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says that if offensive expressions or expressions are considered not appropriate, refer to the parliamentary group or political party, it is the President of the political party of the RS, on behalf of the parliamentary group, that is, the President of the parliamentary group, at this point in time, Mr Ilic and Ilic, who has the right to reply in this regard. Of course, if you are not satisfied, the National Assembly will declare whether or not I hurt that member of the Rules of Procedure and we will easily define it. As far as the words are concerned, Mr Dragan Tomic, also based on his Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4860	Thank you. I want to advertise Article 106, where the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. We, from the discussion of the previous speaker, which lasted more than 20 minutes, had the first 10 minutes mostly of political evaluations and political views that are deeply trying to create a gap and, let me say, break into communication in relations between the two most important institutions in this country, which are these two congregations. That's the first thesis. I am very much behind what Mr. Pastor said, because in very chosen words he approached this subject, aware of the fact that it is both complex and complicated, but I think we stayed in that part of the thesis that is even acceptable here – that a new law should be passed. Mr Dinkic spoke of him very correctly and was told in January of the month, since I am a member of the Finance Committee, that in January the month will already be on the move with this topic, simply for reasons why this topic cannot be addressed at this time. I don't think it's a question here of whether to give the money to Vojvodina, of course it should give money, but that it should be precise about the way and form a different structure, the structure through which to approach this topic, because I still think it's the most developed part of Serbia, I think it's still the engine that needs to drag all of Serbia behind it and develop it in all its segments, but it's obvious that we've all been through the one time that it's, now mentioned here for about six years. No one in this government has been there in those six years, no one has left 200,000 jobs for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4861	Time, Mr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4862	What I'm saying is, we don't have to fall for this kind of provocation that brings this out of the context of what this congregation needs to deal with, to deal with in a realistic way how we really get to one real way.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4863	Thank you. Nevertheless, I believe that Article 106. The Rules of Procedure are not injured in this regard. Since all MPs have the right to speak about the subject, I believe that political exposure is the same way to talk about the subject as any other kind of exposure. So I don't think a member of the 106s is hurt, but, of course, if you're not satisfied, the National Assembly's voting day can be declared. Next for the word reported, Mr. Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go, Mr. Miatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, also agrees with the estimates that it is good to have this bill in today's debate. It is a sign of goodwill and a sign of the development of democratic relations, but I would still like to see some concrete solutions in this debate. This means that we are not putting on a professor’s form, but that we are discussing it, that this National Assembly is making some solutions that may be realized in some later time. It is simply degutant that before each adoption of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, stories in Vojvodina begin – we do not have enough money, Belgrade takes our money, that is our money. I have the impression that these six years of political elites in Vojvodina, and for God's sakes here in the Republic of Serbia, exist precisely in this conflict, often justifying their unhappiness and what has not been done in the previous period. I always wondered why the Constitution cost 7%. Why doesn't it cost 17% or why it doesn't cost 4%? In the Constitution, Article 144 says that at least 7% should be given. First of all, the Duke is not given, the Duke has earned these funds. Vojvodina's gross social product is bigger than the rest of Serbia. Therefore, I see no reason why we say that the Vojvodina is given something, something that was created, earned and that it should be possible for Vojvodina, as it is, to function. I agree with the assessment that the cause of this crisis, which is created, is the 2006 Constitution, which was brought forward as a result of the political compromises of the then political elite, which created a permanent crisis, which at this very time, the adoption of the budget, is constantly repeated and the same weapon is constantly moving and eventually even the result is known. I'm asking a legitimate question why is it so, why doesn't it change, why don't we sit down and talk about how to solve this problem? It's mathematically very simple – 7% is 7%. Of course, you need to know where it's taken from. The constitution said -- from the budget. The other laws clearly specify what the budget means. Please, then why don't we respect the Constitution and the laws that are currently in force? If we respect them, we'll be in a position not to create this crisis anymore. It seems that someone is constantly answering the question of what the Dukes are looking for, often in these discussions that we have here. I must admit, I felt like Slovenians in the late '80s. We want a solution. We seek the right solution, in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the laws in force. I think the political crisis will solve it that way. But something else is going on. Someone seems to be responsible for creating a new political crisis without finding a solution. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia insists and demands that a solution be found within constitutional solutions within the framework of the law. I don't think that's hard. The duchess has entrusted responsibilities. For these entrusted responsibilities, they need funds. The funds are not given to individuals to spend as they please, the funds are given to implement certain state-owned powers in the Vojvodina area. Why does the state of Serbia not control the spending of these funds? These assets cannot be owned by any particular political elite, by individuals, or by any group. These funds must be in Vojvodina in a way that the state-owned authorities, the states of Serbia, are being carried out consistently and that control is being carried out. Control of the spending of these funds, not only these funds, but all those funds that go to capital investment, which are invested in the development of Vojvodina, because Vojvodina as part of Serbia must also have its powers and this autonomy, which exists as it is, that it is fully implemented in the work. Strange things happen in Vojvodina. You've got individuals and groups looking for autonomial removal. It seems conscious. It's nice to cry, and there's always something said that Vojvodina wants to separate itself. Let me tell you right now, Vojvodina, as it is, is part of Serbia, will be part of Serbia, and at least individuals and people living in Serbia think so, differently than they think. We're against political trade. When I say against political trade, I do not want it to happen again in 2013 that strong figures from Vojvodina come to strong figures in the Republic of Serbia and agree to see what they will give Vojvodina to end something, whether it will be Fruska Gora, whether it will be the highway from Ruma to Loznica, etc. We insist on respecting the institutions of the system – the Constitution and the laws, that there is a framework for which we can find a solution to this problem that has arisen at the moment we are in place. I also stress this because I'm afraid, and I'm aware of the fact that at this moment and with this budget we won't find a solution to the problem. That's quite clear today. I also support the immediate establishment of a working group, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with full consultation of the ambassadors from Vojvodina, are ready to give their full capacity to find a solution that will finally solve this problem, that we do not always return to it. In this task force we will include all capacities of the AP Vojvodina and then we will have all the problems we have about the budget, about the funds finally removed from the agenda. This way we keep coming into a situation where volunteering determines what 7% is, what 7% is, and how to resolve them. Since I come from Vojvodina, I live in Vojvodina, I think the solution can be found. It takes a good political will. It takes the will to seek solutions, to find what is satisfactory for all. I think that's what's missing. Someone can say – yes, Serbia is in a difficult crisis, we need more centralism. No, getting out of the crisis will be by doing more decentralisation, which is what we transfer part of responsibility not only to the AP, but also to local communities. The crisis is deep, but its solution can be found. It can be found if there are good will and good solutions. In that sense, the SDPS insists on the deal. He insists that the law on the financing of Vojvodina be passed in the first half of 2013. We will make a full contribution to resolve this issue. Be assured that in this way a large part of the problem, which is artificially created between Vojvodina and Serbia, will be resolved. It'll all be in progress, what's going on. I have to admit, I've been to quite a session of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. I knew, saw and participated with the desire that many laws, which are passed in this home, be better and better, because it is in the interest of citizens of Serbia and of citizens living in the northern part of Serbia called the AP Vojvodina. In that sense, the SDPS insists on going this way and that we will get the right solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4865	Thank you. Mr. Pastor answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4866	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to say a few sentences in relation to what has been heard so far and I suppose some of the elements so far said will be repeated. I'm not sure I'm gonna answer every time I say no. What I want to say to this occasion is that this question is not a personal question for us, nor is a sentence spoken to anyone personally, but a sentence is spoken to in relation to a problem that needs to be addressed. I also have to say it would be convenient to stop the process of Satanization. It would be convenient to stop the process of Satanising the executive government in the province, to stop Satanising the Development Bank and other institutions. I want from here to invite all the authorities of this country to do their job. If it is determined that anyone has sinned in the law, let the move be taken and it may have consequences. I think it's the only time. As for institutions that are often mentioned, I must say that, for example, in relation to the Capital Investment Fund, today on the agenda of the AP Vojvodina Assembly is a report on its business over the last three years. It's a 1600-page material with all the details. It is available not only for congregation discussion, but also for checking by all organs that normally, using their powers, can at any time do checks. Here, you use these options, but I think it's extremely problematic, it's extremely dangerous to say sentences that don't have a basis. The Development Bank is now part of the banking system of the Republic of Serbia. Any sentence that has been put at the turn of the "Development Bank" is a sentence that weakens the banking system of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, what I have to say is that the situations that occur year after year can be seen as degutant. I have to tell you, I'm not comfortable either, whenever the budget comes, the man's scrambling. But for that very reason, there is a solution to this problem. The solution must be sought, I'm convinced, in this space. This is the space of bargaining, this is the space, this is the arena of parliamentary democracy. This is how we have to deal with these things and how these things have to be solved. As for the task force, after visiting Mr Dinkic, the province's government formed a working group. It's been a month and a half since that time. I guess a month and a half should be enough to round up that task force. We're waiting for that. We want a solution. If that weren't the case, we wouldn't be here today, we wouldn't be talking like this, and we wouldn't be making arguments like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4867	Thank you. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4868	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Pastor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly I want to thank you, Mr. Pastor, for removing in the first minutes of your discussion, I would say, one injustice, because in the last few days, there has been an impression in the public that only the current authority is ready for institutional respect of the AP Vojvodina. Since 2001, we have sought to change the unsustainable position of Vojvodina, as well as Serbia itself. During that period, several sessions were held at which the president of parliament spoke as a representative of Vojvodina. That was Nenad Canak at the time. Of course that wasn't enough. Your data is vividly speaking about the roots of the problems we are facing today. We can go and take this debate in the direction of running grotesque arguments, I don't say less important, but truly grotesque, which describe life in Vojvodina. The shortest life span is in Vojvodina, if we speak on average. The shortest life span of a woman is in Vojvodina, the shortest life span of a man is in Vojvodina. Vojvodina is an undeveloped area, etc. But all of these are not the consequences of a poorly run economy, but rather the incentive of the wrong policy. The answer that we need to give to each other today, not how the debate that has been predicated to failure, end the acceptance of the Vojvodina initiative, but in any way open, and that this is not a crisis, raise such a huge issue as the issue of life organisation in Serbia, Vojvodina, Belgrade or any other region today. First, it is truly humiliating to listen to the justice of those who are representatives of the duchy institutions, who follow their every ambition to discuss the problems of the Vojvodina. It is your obligation, as President of Parliament, as the leader of a party acting in the space of Vojvodina. It's a political obligation and you're doing your job. We must not agree to an imposed thesis that is predetermined by the failure of any duke's initiative that is acceptable to us, not because we want votes in Vojvodina, but because it must first answer the question of how we will regulate Serbia, because from 1990 to today, any mention of the Vojvodina problem is seen as an attack on Serbia itself. That's why this debate was predicated to failure. Why did the government, even the ruling coalition, agree to put this on the agenda, when there isn't even anyone here who will explain the nonsense that stands in the way? The constitutional institution, which is the duchy parliament and the duchy government, are calling on the Constitution and asking the government of the Republic of Serbia to respect the constitution, and the government of the Republic of Serbia says the constitution was not clear enough. It would be nice for one who can come here before us, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and tell us what is not clear in the last position of Article 184. – The AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to the Republic of Serbia's budget. I don't understand the mind that put this in the Constitution, but I understand very much how, although pointlessly, very specific that 7% of the budget is. This is not at all a story of 150 or 60 billion dinars left aside, past Vojvodina, who has the right to participate in them at a certain percentage. This is the question of where this country is going. Is it possible for us to understand problems only when they explode in our faces and when we can only pick up the parade of what we've been living at that moment? The position in which the whole society is located is unsustainable, and the relationship of those in power to that fact is devastating. If we are not ready to understand the relationship between the policy that has been led over the previous years and the price that is now being set out for us, then we should not at all ask people to vote for us because people vote for politicians to solve the problems that politicians are in. The big problem is the fact that Vojvodina was developing dynamically when it was arranged according to different rules. I do not advocate returning to the 1974 Constitution, because this model of state and society, which is 40 years behind us, but cannot ignore the fact that during the 15 years of this model of regulation our state, Vojvodina has made significant progress, arranged its own life, solved a whole series of problems for people living in the Vojvodina area, and that, after defining a new model of the state, it has begun to fail. Along with that collapse, the whole country is going down. The key question is political, not economic. It manifests itself through the economy, because the economy cannot ignore life. The caravans of politicians from Belgrade were leaving and will leave for Novi Sad and will return with some explanation of the meeting they were at, but the economy is ruthlessly showing the true value of our lives. She's critically low today. Never have the problems that have been raised in the space of the Vojvodina had their roots in Vojvodina, but elsewhere. That's why we're worried. Of course we have an understanding of this initiative. We were against the Constitution. We wanted the whole society to participate in the conversation and definition of the country's vision, which determines both the rights and obligations of each of us. We didn't get a chance at that. Six years after the adoption of the constitution, we of those who at all costs insisted on the constitutional arrangement of Serbia today are asking to respect themselves. Will those 7% of the budgets heading towards Vojvodina solve economic problems in Vojvodina? No, but those 7% that the government is taking away from the Vojvodina will resolutely define the character of the government in this country. Is this a government that respects the laws and order of Serbia or a government that thinks it all begins and ends with it? It's crucial to us. It is a terrible problem and the fact is that there is a very small difference between what this government is doing and what the previous government has done, which was absolutely in a position to solve a whole series of problems that today criticises Dacic and his ruling coalition, and 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, so it is not done. For what? First of all, because of the firmly rooted thesis and belief that Serbia is threatened and threatened if its internal arrangement is changed in accordance, not with the interests of those who are in power in Vojvodina, but with the needs of people living in Vojvodina. We have to fight it. That is why we need institutions and talks within institutions. It would be fairer to say – to us money. We know they're gone. Yesterday, an amendment was submitted that the government is correcting the budget for nine billion euros, for 90m euros, by amendment, budget correction. If there is no money, we have to ask the question – how are we going to create it together? And that the distribution of that money that is otherwise not enough is neither a solution for Vojvodina nor for the rest of Serbia. Political reform is a key issue. It may not be attractive, because we are talking about reforms that are the opposite of the balvana policy, whether they are suffering on the roads in northern Kosovo or are being embalmed around the Krajina from the beginning of the 1990s, contrary to the logic that came to the "yogurt" revolution to power. Where will we meet next, and in what situation? Nationalism is the fuel of every unfortunate society. Our resources have been spent and therefore it was better for you, Mr Stefanovic, to find some minister who would sit here and ask for the understanding of the representatives of Vojvodina, through sentences – we have put together the budget for the following year as we knew and could, no more money, let us see how and what we will do next, rather than with our own behaviour, practically destroying the minimum possibility of solving this huge issue in a normal way. We insist on respecting the Constitution, respecting the laws, passing the laws that are necessary. Because if we don't define each other in that way, what other way are we going to do it? That's what we tried in the 1990s, and here we are by the time we got there. Then it was thought differently and worked, and since Vojvodina's theme was, Vojvodina also got "Azotara", "Petrochemia", "Combint in Kikinda, "Hemofarm", "29 November", "North", "Fidelink", "Neoplant", "Neoplant", she also had the oil industry, she had everything, and today there's nothing. Yes, and Fidelinku. And 40,000 people are out of work in Subotica, right, Mr. Pastor? And "November 29th", which was an institution, and today is a pile of kicks, both Bosnia and Azotara in Subotica, and a broken country, and a higher average unemployment rate than the average in Serbia, and a smaller average social product than the average of Serbia, and a water-free school and no toilets, and a broken hospital. It's all the cost of politics, not three weeks of some budget that's supposed to go into capital investments. Mr Pastor, we insist that you as a representative of the institution raise large political issues, because this is not how we function. This is the same logic, don't take it personally, which was used in DS 2006, when in weeks and percentages she sought salvation in some time that would come tomorrow, which she would reach by going through the minefield through which she was then moving. He can't do that anymore. The key issue is the issue of the country's constitutional reform. The prerequisite is to impose this topic here in Belgrade itself. Neither the duchy problem nor any other problem can be solved before relations in Serbia are fully democratisationd. It'll be late in a year. Those who cannot understand it today should find at least one political fact on which we have done our views, which time has denied, and may find one fact behind which the parliamentary majority here in the Assembly did not deny – when we talk about economics, politics, national problems, everything. The key issue of changing the way Serbia is arranged -- giving rights and proportionate rights and obligations to people in Serbia, local self-government, cities, provinces and province institutions in Novi Sad, is all other cartoonisation. This is not a theme for Mladjan Dinkic. Of course, when we live from today to tomorrow, he's in the first place. The fundamental question is to correct the mistake we have been living in since 1990, to find among us people who see beyond their noses and who understand that politics is the essence of predicting events. This is the fourth country my generation lives in. We have a colleague and a colleague who has a larger balance. Fourth. We need to think about those who are the hostages of our infirmities and our incompetence, our children. They have the right to politicians who should not be visionaries, politicians who will be able to draw a line, to look at the epilogue of a 20-year-old policy, and to say that it is not so difficult to see what is to be done. It's the opposite of what's been going on for 20 years. Well, if there's no money, let the province government sit down and the republican government, let them search and bisage what hollows are and how hollow they are and find what can be taken and spent in a rational way. Let rights be established which will allow everyone in this land to create and benefit themselves and those who depend on it, for those for whom he is responsible. This is an unsustainable situation. And when you came here, you knew this was doomed to fail. It is offensive that the very idea of the ruling coalition puts a point on the agenda on which the duchy parliament insists, that there are no representatives of the government here, although it is understandable that there is no man who could explain to us what is unclear, in a simple extended position - the budget of the Vojvodina is 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Dot. It is perfectly clear that we are skating into a regime in which we will live exclusively according to the rules that are being established for a short period of time, under pressure and ambition, not to solve problems, but to survive in power. We didn't need 100 days to understand it, enough to see who was making this ruling coalition, so it could figure out what its policy would be. Here is what we have in November of the month, for the first time in time and in accordance with the Constitution of the budget, which does not respect the same constitution to which it is called. Each minister is waging his private war with problems within his ministry, without a strategy and vision that we cannot reach if we do not previously agree on the country's goal, the way we will reach it. Support to institutions in Vojvodina. If we don't have institutions, then we're not even in the '90s, because there are no more potentials that were before us. As far as the requirement itself is concerned, he is justified, based on the Constitution and the government's refusal and possible consent of the ruling coalition to the government's reasoning, Mr Stefanovic, as president of the assembly, you will support your ruling coalition, but you will crush the constitution. That's what the problem is and every one of those who vote for this. Believe me, it's not without consequences. The first consequence will be the conclusion of society that it too can live in accordance with its personal rules and interests if those in power can do so. What else has made the situation more difficult in Vojvodina? A characteristic of the duchy political scene. I'm not just talking about clients. I mean the character of the public who took herself away from the so-called so-called. big policies. The wrong belief is after 20 years, as it is clear that this is no longer possible with Vojvodina. The wrong belief is that Vojvodina can find answers to all its internal problems, regardless of what is happening in Belgrade. He can't, Mr. Pastor. You've been a loyal coalition partner for four years to the Republic government. Every time you turned your attention to the unsustainableness of the Constitution and insisted on obeying constitutional standards. The Vojvodina issue cannot be resolved if the duke's potential is not in the role of reform throughout Serbia and there is a gap between the LDP and the Vojvodina political scene. Problems have been created from Belgrade that have destroyed Serbia both in Kosovo and in Novi Sad and must be answered here. It's not three weeks and 7% found in Mosha's villa near Novi Sad, France, but here. If this debate is worth anything, then it's only worth it because you should leave here with a message to Vojvodina that Vojvodina needs Serbia. When we're looking for something for Vojvodina, it's good for Nis. It is needed with its potential and Serbia, because Serbia has no potential elsewhere. That's what it's all about. I am sorry that we will be lonely in support of both this law and the amendments of the District Government to the budget on which they have been tabled.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4869	Thank you. Before I give Mr. Pastor, I would like to say that he can't be a representative of the Serbian government because the National Assembly's session can only be attended by an act-proposing representative. As it is in this case the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, it may be Mr Pastor or someone whom the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina for that authority and that is why a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot be at this session. Mr. Pastor, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4870	I want to say that if this session is now finished immediately and then I feel it as an extremely large step in relation to everything that we have been living with for the past nine years and in no way do I see it as a failure, although I know that the outcome of the debate is more or less coded from the aspect of the vote. For the past nine years, there has never been a possibility, there has been no possibility that this debate is being conducted in this way, and from that aspect, this is not a failure for me, but I think it is the launch of a huge political issue that you have appealed for. I think the issue of constitutionality, the issue of respect for the Constitution, the issue of the rule of law, the issue of building a system that has no greater interest than it says in the Constitution is the biggest issue that can be raised and which can be asked. From that point of view, I don't see this day as a failure. As for those questions that permanently pass that the budget is small, that the possibilities of the republican budget are small, allow me ladies and gentlemen to be picturesque. The difference between the Republic of Serbia's budget is this big or this big a matter of absolute value. Seven percent of this is and seven percent of this isn't absolute size, but it's practically meeting the constitutional criteria. We're not asking 7% of this even though the budget is this big, but we're asking 7% of the budget that today is our reality. That's what we're talking about today. If there's a reason why it was worth coming here to the congregation, then at least these two glasses I could have picked up today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4871	Mr. Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4872	Mr. Stefanovic, I don't think it's your whim, that you've closed the door to someone, but I think it's the elemental order of this big question at least being treated seriously, so to answer seriously, to show up here a representative of the government who can attend every session of parliament, could always explain it, and to explain it, so when he gets this picturesque answer, then say what he thinks about it. It could be seven percent. What's the problem? The problem is in the way Serbia was organised, because Vojvodina never had 7% of jurisdiction. A centralised state that controls society exclusively by distribution must maintain this exclusive right for itself, so pensions are paid out of Belgrade, not from Belgrade and Novi Sad, as was the case before, so the Health Fund is established here in Belgrade, not in Belgrade and Novi Sad, as it used to be, and then there is no more 7%. In the end, it's not a question of money, it's what we agreed on, it's a big political question – whether there's some order in the country or not. As bad as the 2006 Constitution is, let's say this is the way we edit our relationships, so since we're bad at this format, then let's make a new one. Don't say there's no format. We are MPs of the Assembly. Our profession obliges us to respect this elemental political ethics. We must regulate our relations in accordance with the laws we vote for.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4873	Mr. Djuric according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4874	The debate opened on whether representatives of the government can participate in sessions when no proposings are authorised. You have now explicitly said that they cannot do this and that they are not present here, that you did not invite them, and I believe that you have violated Article 89(1). The Rules of Procedure which makes it clear – the President and members of the Government, the authorised representatives of the other legislators, the Director of the Republic Secretariat, and other persons who call the National Assembly, participate in the work at the National Assembly session in addition to the MPs. Article 89. The Rules of Procedure shall not speak of the role of the Prime Minister, or of the members of the Government in the sitting itself or of the participation in its work, on the basis of whether or not the proposings are authorised. The Rules of Procedure say that the prime minister and members of the government can always attend meetings of the National Assembly, and even extends the circle of faces when they say they can attend other persons invited to attend the session by the National Assembly. By doing so, the Rules of Procedure strengthens your not only legal but also political obligation to very carefully assess what is useful for this country, what is useful for the work of the National Assembly and, accordingly, to possibly expand the circle of persons who should be wider than the circle of promoters present in this case as representatives of the AP Vojvodina. This is the meaning of the business provision on attendance at the session and participation in the work of the session. They are not restrictively laid down and this provision that I have quoted, which you have obviously failed to pay attention to, is in the section of the Rules of Procedure, in the General Provisions which speak of opening a session and participation in the session. If your logic were carried out until the end, when you say that the representatives of the government do not have the right to attend parliament sessions, then it is pointless for the government to ask for a statement on the bill. What is the point of interpreting that the Government can give written reasons without being able to participate in the session, to answer some specific questions? That's why I don't think you're right about this, or any similar situation when you've given a similar explanation in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4875	You're somewhat right because of article 89. That's what he really says, but in Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are said to have the right to speak in accordance with the next order and time period of time with the draft act, the rapporteur of the committee responsible, the president, or representative of the parliamentary group and the MPs. He defines that members of the government can be present. I accept the interpretation that the president of the National Assembly can invite all those faces and give them the right to speak. However, the Rules of Procedure do not define this precisely, and I consider that to be an indetermination of the Rules of Procedure. I have interpreted that government members, or representatives of the government, can speak when there is a law on the agenda that has been passed by the government. I can accept it, although it doesn't say it explicitly in Article 96. The Rules of Procedure, which defines who has the right to speak, does not participate in the session. A participant in the session may be someone who will sit at a session of the National Assembly without the right to speak, as there are persons attending meetings of the National Assembly, but who do not participate in the debate. I accept that. However, since the government gave its opinion on the bill. The government, in its opinion, expressed its position on the law under this proposal and did not consider it necessary to further explain it. Also, at the same session, we will have on the agenda a budget that is certainly touching this topic and there will be a government representative who will be able to plead with the MPs to discuss this issue. I certainly accept the possibility that a member of the government could be found at this session. The word is made by the People's Messenger Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4876	Thank you. Dear President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, respected colleagues and colleagues, Serbian citizens, it is unfortunate that we have been listening for two months to artificially create problems about the Vojvodina budget. In my address, which will be unusually brief for an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I will present several facts that clearly prove that this entire court is actually a delusion, and a dilemma about the budget is nonexistent. The real intention of the promoter is not to protect the interests of the citizens of Vojvodina. The real intention of the promoter is to create a false dilemma to distract attention from the essence of things, and the bottom line is that the situation in Vojvodina is catastrophic. We agree here and this is largely the responsibility of the provincial government. Many abuses have been committed. Let's take a look, for example, at Vojvodina Development Bank. Who made a 15-billion-dollar dubiosis? They're not the citizens of the Duke's locusts, so they ate that money. I'll point Serbia's citizens to a few facts, and I hope they can imagine it. A political experiment called the Vojvodina Development Bank cost Serbian citizens nine billion dinars. So, every full-time citizen of this country has given 1,400 dinars for the Vojvodina Development Bank. Of course, I welcome the initiative of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina to use its legal right and to refer to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the draft law supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, as well as the possibility to discuss this subject in public and in the framework of institutions today. I think this is the first time we agree this way, too, within the framework of the institutions we have dialogue. It is the way Serbia should solve its problems. The addition of the legislative proposal concerns the establishment of a basis for the calculation of funds belonging to the AP Vojvodina. As an AP Vojvodina MP, I must point out the concern that Vojvodina last year had a lower GDP per capita than the republican average. I wonder – what is happening in my Vojvodina that was once the backbone of the state's development, and today we no longer have a picture that we are the most developed region of our country? It's a topic that I would very much like to conduct dialogue and try to find a solution together for Vojvodina to move forward. I would point out that the basis for calculating the transfers to Vojvodina in the 2013 budget is 11% higher than last year's budget, and that it will be given a larger share of income from profit tax and some other tax revenues. I'm talking about tax revenues, because they're safe budget revenues. The basis for budget calculation under the old Budgetary System Act, which was applied by the government of Prime Minister Cvetkovic when she adopted the 2012 budget, I would say, with the support of the AP Vojvodina, including us MPs from Vojvodina in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, was 750 billion. The basis for the budget of Vojvodina under the new law that we have consistently applied in the 2013 Budget Law is 837.2 billion. Much more. The 7% minimum for Vojvodina under Prime Minister Cvetkovic's government was 52.5 billion. Under the new Budget System Act, 58.6 billion. So six billion more. You will agree that those who say that Vojvodina loses nine billion are not true, but that Vojvodina gets six billion more. I truly believe it is important to pass a law on the financing of Vojvodina in order to obtain its own sources of income. Until it's done, there'll be unproductive tensions. I believe that law should represent a model for other regions. I think that law should also be adopted within the framework of one dialogue and all those who are relevant to it consulted. I repeat, is all of this done to distract attention from the dubiosis and irregularities that were made at the Vojvodina Development Bank? Is this a model to politically raise tension, because I would stress that in the past five to six years it has not been done? Isn't it a little unusual that this principle by the Prime Minister of Vojvodina didn't occur while DS was an absolute master not only in Vojvodina, but also in Serbia? Once again, I will point out that I fully agree with Mr. Pastor that the situation in Vojvodina is catastrophic. Believe it or not, every year a growing number of municipalities fall into the most underdeveloped. The unemployment rate in certain municipalities exceeds 40%. I am also worried about the fact that every full-time citizen of Vojvodina is being taken out of his pocket by 8,000 dinars for another capitalisation of a political experiment called the "Vojvodine Development Bank". It's not just the Vojvodina Development Bank. It's not the only problem this home should be talking about. There is also a need to discuss the Capital Investment Fund. The last time a report on the spending of the Capital Investment Fund was submitted to this Parliament in 2009. I would remind all of us that parliament also has a control function and that it would be of paramount importance for MPs to receive a report on spending from the Republic of Serbia's budget. After everything Parliament and the public have been familiar with in the previous months, it is clear that someone is being irresponsible towards the citizens of Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia. That someone doesn't explain to the people of Vojvodina or this home where our money goes. Since Vojvodina gets six billion more, and not nine billion less, as the public is deceived, the URS parliamentary group is firmly on the stand to do the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. With that, we will not be able to support this proposal by the Vojvodina Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4877	Thank you. The word is Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4878	Just one sentence. In relation to the Capital Investment Fund, there is an obligation for the Fund to submit a report to the founder. The founder is the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. That report is submitted. Today the report is on the agenda compared to the previous period. There is no legal obligation to report to this assembly, but every law enforcement body, every body that checks out how money is spent, has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4879	Thank you. According to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18.00 hours until the start of the initial search from the 1st point of the sitting agenda, due to the need for proposals from the agenda of this session to be carried out as soon as possible. At this point, I'm setting a break of one hour and we're going to continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4880	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work after the break. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4881	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, Mr Pastor, welcome to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, which unanimously established in 2006 the proposal for a Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was confirmed in a referendum by most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, also in 2006. Unfortunately, in one particular section, I have to agree with some colleagues that this constitution was not respected. He was not well respected by this parliament, but I must conclude that he did not respect himself properly when it comes to the position of Vojvodina in line with this constitution. It was not respected when the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina was established in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the Constitutional Court found in the end line. It was not respected when it comes to the Statute of the AP Vojvodina as a lower legal act than the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which I believe the Constitutional Court, since a large number of provisions of the law found unconstitutional, will also find it unconstitutional. Today you told us in the presentation, presenting this bill, that he could be considered with several aspects, that he and the financial question, but you pointed out that he was primarily a constitutional issue. We agree. The Democratic Party of Serbia has no problem with respect for the Constitution, especially there is no problem with the constitution's provision regarding 7% of the funds belonging to the AP Vojvodina. Let me remind you, and that was also said by the MPs of your party in the National Assembly, the only period when the constitution was respected was the period when the government was Vojislav Kostunica and when the budget of the Republic of Serbia was established immediately after the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. However, what is controversial for us, and we want to talk about today, is the fact that representatives of the province's administration, and you are one of the highest officials of the province's administration, want the constitution to be respected a little bit, i.e. to respect how the individual provisions of the Constitution relating to the AP Vojvodina are complied with. As you know, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia announced in July, on the basis of a proposal from the DSS, the 22 powers of the Law on the Determining of Duchy of Vojvodina, which was established here in the National Assembly, where we have fiercely criticised, investing a large number of amendments in the National Assembly, unconstitutional. The reaction that has come from the representatives of the AP Vojvodina, who are now asking for the respect of the Constitution in the National Assembly, and we are also looking for it, as is our parliamentary group, has been extremely inappropriate. She was moving from what I said to Mr. Bojan Pajtic that it was a disgrace, that the decision was embarrassing us in front of the international community, that the Constitutional Court had compromised, to the fact that the Constitutional Court's decision was an anti-civilisation disorder of isolationists. It was a qualification, Mr. Pastor, after that decision, until the issue of changing the Constitution was raised, not respecting the Constitution, but changing the Constitution. You, in the end, have advocated a constitutional law that would define the position of Vojvodina, because these decisions, as you said, have created tensions in the European Commission itself between Belgrade and Novi Sad. What characterizes the previous period from July to today is an attempt not to implement this decision. You yourself said that Vojvodina would not be able to give up the 22 powers that were challenged by law. You also said that the constitutional court's decision to advertise the Statute would unconstitutionally produce certain negative consequences and problems in Vojvodina. I'd like you to explain that to me, since today you're a strong advocate for the respect of the Constitution. As I noticed at a joint meeting with the Prime Minister of Hungary, it was found that the Constitution is sacred in the EU and should be respected. We of the DSS absolutely support you there, but we ask that respect be fully respected and that these powers, which the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional, cease to fund and cease to exist. Now it is popular to say – we no longer finance, but whether there is so-called The Duke's Academy of Science and Arts, Mr. Pastor? Did the Constitutional Court announce that she was unconstitutional? Is there a secretariat that deals with science, although according to that decision, science is not in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina? Has the Government of the Republic of Serbia taken over the National Park "Fruška Gora", because it cannot be the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina? It is very important that when we in the National Assembly plead and fight for the respect of the Constitution, we insist that the Constitution cannot be respected and applied to a piece as it suits someone. You thought when you passed the laws in 2009 that it would all lie down nicely. Everyone in the National Assembly accepted that. The Law establishing jurisdiction is advertised as an act of decentralisation, as the best way to comply with the Constitution, and then the Statute is adopted. However, what was interesting is that the Statute is, in fact, the first one to be promoted, and it later passed the law, which, you will admit, lawyers in the National Assembly know quite the opposite. The Statute is a lower legal act than the law and, after the Constitutional Court's decision, that Statute must be amended. I'm asking you, as someone representing the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, are you going to do it? Because a large number of provisions in the Statute are prescribed by law, and these provisions are advertised unconstitutional. We do not understand what the visit meant and the conclusion of the meeting with Stefan File and Jelko Kacin, that the European Commission, together with the province administration, will follow the consequences in the Vojvodina decision of the Constitutional Court. We are a sovereign and independent state, we have our own legal system, and here we are fighting to respect that legal system. You do not think any international institution can impose on the highest court in Serbia that it will consider and decide the acts adopted by the National Assembly. It turns out that the European Commission and the province administration conspired against the government of the Republic of Serbia and the state. That's how it comes out of the conclusion that you adopted together there. These are unacceptable things, because we want to have a clear legal system, a clear constitutional order, that it is respected, respected and in this case, that all and the dinar of those 7% provided by the Constitution is paid to AP Vojvodina, because the DSS was doing so when it was in power and now I insist. It can't be negotiated, Mr. Pastor. It cannot be negotiated how it will come out of the problem created by the Constitutional Court's decision. There is the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to implement decisions of the Constitutional Court. There is nothing for the government of the Republic of Serbia to negotiate with the lower authorities on the implementation of the Constitution. He can't. You can't, Mr. Pastor, negotiate what 7% of the province's administration and government are. There is a Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the National Assembly to determine what the budget is after amending the Budgetary System Act in September. You can't negotiate that. Negotiations cannot interpret the Constitution. It is absolutely unacceptable if we respect institutions, and you have come to respect an institution such as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Today, as I understand it, is a question of what 7% of the budget is as defined in the Constitution. The Constitutional Affairs Committee must give that answer. Not the negotiations, not the coordination bodies, as you formed in Vojvodina, but the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. I insist that these problems be resolved. Of course, I call on the government of the Republic of Serbia to exercise power. There is no negotiation on how the problem created by this Constitutional Court decision will be implemented. I call on the government of the Republic of Serbia, the DSS has been insisting since July to refer to the National Assembly of Laws on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina to remove all these problems that have arisen in order to end tensions between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the province administration. That's what no one wants. Serbia needs stability, it needs the respect of institutions to develop. We expect these things. Let the government exercise power. And why is he negotiating? Those who do not enforce the Constitution know the sanctions. By the way, there are delegations from the Government of the Republic of Serbia going to Novi Sad for what? What are they afraid of? What will Stefan Phil and Kacin say? We really don't understand that. We must respect the institutions of the Republic of Serbia and that is our request. When it comes to what and what the funds were spent on, we've had a lot of questions here, and I guess you've been following the debate that was about budget rebalancing and, say, the Capital Investment Fund that you mentioned today, to file a report, that's good. But as president of the assembly, you know his duty is once a year. He took it once in three years on 1,600 pages. You will admit, Mr Pastor, that it is not correct for MPs in the AP Vojvodina who are discussing it today, and not for us who should see those three weeks of budgets where they are going, because these are the budget allocations, which are determined from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We care very much about knowing what capital investments were made during the previous period when these funds were determined from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What is the capital investment in Vojvodina, Mr. Pastor, outside of Novi Sad and the clinical centre that is always highlighted as capital investment, and I agree with that, which capital investment is still done? You mentioned the real problems that exist with the citizens today. I am a citizen from Vojvodina, I am an MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, from Backa Palanka, and there are many MPs here and everyone has problems and everyone agrees who is responsible. Who's responsible for that? The same parties have been in power for 12 years in Vojvodina, and who is responsible for this? It is a fundamental question – why are the citizens of Vojvodina in the position they are in. Don't just tell us it's because of Belgrade. That's what we heard. He who exercises power, who received 7% of the budget, which received three weeks of capital investment funds, is responsible. At least that's how it should be interpreted normally, unless we're going to have a political discussion and open up a political crisis that no one wants. We all want Serbian citizens to live well. I, as a citizen from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, want my citizens in every municipality to live well. I guess that's what we all agree, but we need to get some order in. We need to get some order in and that's very important. So this question that my colleagues are going to discuss further, we have tabled one amendment, trying to solve what incomes and expenditures are in Vojvodina, and we have tried. However, I would like to warn you, there are several colleagues here, in the way you have formulated this bill. I will read some lawyers understand that, and I believe that they will understand how wrongly it is done, it is said that Article 5(4) – If individual incomes and incomes, expenditures and expenditures, as well as the budget of local authorities are determined relatively as the budget and expenditure of the Republic of Serbia, their amount and height will be determined by applying the expenditures financed from the tax revenues. It's the current text of the law. What you next add, you exclusively in the case of the AP Vojvodina budget, interpreting the right, you exempt Vojvodina from this - its amount and height will be determined by applying as the basis of income and income from the sale of non-financial assets. You know what, that's six times less than the law, if we're interpreting this in language. Exceptionally, only a base determined on the basis of income and income from the sale of financial assets will apply to Vojvodina. It's simple, it had to be looked at because this one who wants to interpret can interpret this as reducing funds for the AP Vojvodina. Therefore, Mr. Pastor, any effort to respect the DSS Constitution will respect. We insist on respecting ourselves in this case. From the budget of the Republic of Serbia 7% of the AP of Vojvodina must give. If it is disputed what the budget is, and the dispute has arisen after the amending budget system law, I ask the Constitutional Affairs Committee to discuss this matter instead of coordinating bodies, four-eyed talks and everything else they have proposed here, which obviously did not lead to a solution but created only additional tensions and additional problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4882	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4883	In any case, I wouldn't want to react to all the allegations that were made earlier, but to some of them anyway. First of all, I want to thank you for your discussion and to say that I agree with you that there are a number of issues about which there is no agreement. It can be interpreted in different ways. It can be qualified in different ways but that some issues need to be clarified about it I don't think there's a dispute. What there is no dispute for me is that it can only seem if you talk. For this reason, I cannot accept your experience of a policy that is manifested in sitting down and having a conversation. Because only through such conversations can there be a solution. These discussions are not about whether the Constitution should be respected or not, but discussions must be conducted on how we can get out of a certain situation and those conversations that were conducted have just had that goal and today have that goal. I fully agree with you that the Constitutional Court's decision is an act that we can comment on in one way or another, but it can't be the subject of debate whether we respect it or not. I must say again, we respect the Constitutional Court's decision, whether we agree with any elements of that decision or not, whether it's okay or not, whether it's okay to say, for the first-born child in the family, we can't pay the fee. Nevertheless, I say again – we respect what is written in the Constitution, in the Constitutional Court's decision. As for capital investments, you're right when you say it's time every year for it to be on the agenda. The fact is, we've been discussing the report for the last three years now. What's capital investment? It's a very relative thing. Capital investment is, for example, in a particular village for the locals of the village that they have normal drinking water or to cut the road from one place to another by 40 km. It's a capital investment for them. It's not just a bridge over the Danube at Beška capital investment, it's my deep conviction that everything that improves the quality of life. You're right when you say we should be responsible for what's going on in Vojvodina, because we got 7%, but I have to tell you, we didn't get 7%. We're here today to talk about it, talk about it, and I think this is the place where these conversations have to be held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4884	Thank you. Mr. Palalic, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4885	Obviously, we're having an impact on what's the effect of these bilateral talks, Mr. Pastor? You spoke to Minister Dinkic and what's the result? The dispute, because you have spoken outside institutions that need to determine what the budget of the Republic of Serbia is. So that's the essential thing. If there is a National Assembly that has adopted the Constitution, it should establish this, not a discussion between the two representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the province administration. It cannot be discussed in such a way, it must be through institutions that are competent to determine, to give interpretation of things that are controversial, whether it is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, whether it is the Constitutional Court, that is the essential thing. As for capital investments, you yourself said that in a large number of cities in Vojvodina, there is no water, there is no electricity, there are no roads, and then where are the money you were talking about? You have found that Vojvodina is in a catastrophic state and that capital investments are not a Banatian highway, a tunnel through Fruszko Gora. Then where are these roads, water, electricity, what were you talking about that doesn't exist in certain cities and villages in Vojvodina, where did these funds go? We can talk that way. The third thing, I agree with you, but there is one question that I would like you to personally answer, four previous years, the previous VRS violates the constitution on the issue of 7% of the funds that are being allocated, is that correct, your MPs in the National Assembly said so. Why hasn't the circuit administration launched this same initiative for the past four years, amendments to laws, amendments, everything else, why, but only now? Who was responsible for the last four years? Your coalition partners, Mr. Pastor, and then it wasn't as crowded as it is now, and that's the question, how can the disrespect and statements given under the Constitutional Court's decision be pushed into another plan and say, "No, we are not the ones who violate the Constitution, in violation of the Constitution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the National Assembly?" It was that thing, we'd be absolutely confident if you'd run it sooner.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4886	Here you go, Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4887	Just two sentences to say, as far as institution talks are concerned, in my experience, the institutions and the Ministry of Finance, the institutions and the Regional Government, the representatives of these institutions are the finance minister, the Prime Minister. If they sit down and talk, it's not a private conversation, it's a conversation within the framework of the system institution, and it all makes sense to work, to look for and find solutions. Second thing, when you say where those money went? I have to tell you, I don't know how to answer that, because the money didn't come because they didn't go anywhere because they didn't make it. Right now we're talking about it, that's the question. As far as this question is concerned, we are reporting with this initiative because we want to amend the law that was passed here in September. I said in the opening statement, we couldn't have done it sooner because at the end of September that law was passed here. At the end of September, another situation was made in relation to interpretation and whether the experience of Article 184 paragraph 4 and for this reason we are now appearing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4888	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4889	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, believes that Vojvodina's status should reflect its historical and economic and social specificities and needs in order to improve and create an optimal framework for the economic, social, cultural development of the AP Vojvodina, but also create optimal conditions for the development of the entire Republic of Serbia and all its citizens. Just from this point of view, I would like to say that we are clearly and firmly in favour of the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the autonomy of the Vojvodina and the relationship of the Government of Serbia towards the AP Vojvodina, which the Prime Minister himself expressed in the exposé, and it is said in short that the Government of Serbia will support the level of autonomy in Vojvodina, which in the past three or four months since the constitution of the Government and does, because it is also under the confidence of the Prime Minister Dacic, autonomy in Serbia, and not against Serbia, and that the government's policy will move in the frameworks exclusively against and abolishing the autonomy of Vojvodina, but also threats to any internationalisation or politicisation of the issues of Vojvodina's autonomy. That is why we are against all radical views of the right, in terms of abolishing the autonomy of the Vojvodina, which we see even these days as some signal or movement possible in Vojvodina, because it would not be a civil act and in the best way possible we could paint all the specificities of the Vojvodina, when it comes to historical and cultural heritage, the multinational composition of the Vojvodina, and that is why we are against such movements and such policies. On the other hand, we are also witnessing that, in the whole story, the problem of autonomy is sometimes tried and led into day-to-day political issues, calls for some kind of internationalisation, and in all this certain political parties want to be presented as exclusive fighters for interpreting autonomy or protecting the autonomy of Vojvodina or something like that. We believe that both such aspirations, such attitudes and such performances do not contribute to stability in the Republic of Serbia, especially at a time when Serbia needs any kind of stability, including macroeconomic stability in the context of major challenges, when it comes to financial consolidation, the fight against corruption and crime, the solution to KIM status, and even if you will, European integration. Because of that and that kind of generalization, such attitudes, by my and my deep conviction of the SPS, are vehemently compromising the idea of autonomy and the very essence of Vojvodina's autonomy. The SPS wants, and it is also well known that in its previous period we have supported all legislative proposals that went towards establishing the autonomy of Vojvodina and the Law on Public Property and even the Statute of Vojvodina. I want to say that this time, the SPS does not participate in the Regional Government, does not have a majority, does not seem and we appreciate the attitude and decision of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, but I also want to share the experience of my colleagues from the Regional Assembly, that I think it was necessary to spend more time in consultation on the adoption of the bill, i.e. the addition of the Law on the Budgetary System, because as far as I heard from my colleagues, official statements go in the direction that they were literally an hour before the start, it was learned about the agenda, and some kind of consultation, which tells me and all of us in this sense that it is not the best possible right to measure and we cannot know what is the ultimate objective and intention of both the Government and the Parliament of Vojvodina, when it comes to this proposal to supplement the Law on the budgetary system. What we want to say and what the SPS is, we want all the problems, including the issue of autonomy and law to be resolved in the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, and we think that it is really reasonable and a step that would go towards calming political weights and passions, was, above all, the adoption and adoption of laws on financing the powers of the AP Vojvodina. In this sense, we support all the announcements, all the agreements, the talks, the initiative in this regard, because in this way indeed the financing of the AP Vojvodina will be resolved in the best possible way and be able to achieve truly essential autonomy and autonomy that would be fully introduced into the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, in this respect, we appreciate that today's debate and the request for an assessment of constitutionality, legitimate steps, and we are a party that will certainly respect all decisions of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, including the Constitutional Court and, of course, we are calling on, in any case, all respect these decisions, because they apply to all. We support this debate today and I highly appreciate and the attitude of the esteemed president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, that this is one step and progress, because we have, with this in mind, had the opportunity to hear today certain problems that are currently in the AP Vojvodina. The data presented by the President himself really needs to guide all of us to a kind of mobility, in this sense I thank you for the data presented, although, as an MP from Vojvodina, I have some knowledge of the problems affecting the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, but I want to say to this occasion that these are topics that we really need to discuss, when it comes to schools, water supply, sewerage network, but also the development of the economy of Vojvodina. I'd like to tell you, Mr. President, that you will have a constructive associate at all times in the SPS. In that sense, although the opposition party, unlike some previous term in the province's Assembly, wants to make a full constructive contribution to spending money in Vojvodina both more effectively and efficiently, and I am convinced that through the adoption of the law on funding in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina that these results will be visible to all citizens of the AP Vojvodina. Finally, as regards the very proposal for a law supplementing the Budgetary System Act, which has only one or two members, through the debate, almost everyone here has highlighted the position, and even the opposition parties and parties who, I say, are leaning on the voters of Vojvodina, that the Constitution is not sufficiently defined as the basis for calculating the 7% of the AP Vojvodina budget. It was precisely defined by the September changes, clearly defined, in the sense that these are expenditures financed from tax revenues. What is also an unambiguously clear fact, is that in this way they provide, in one way, higher revenues compared to the previous budget. But most importantly, this provision eliminates this fundamental disregard for the inaccuracy of the base definition, and it is now very clear at this point. On the other hand, it is about tax revenues that are predictable, which are very generous, respecting fiscal consolidation and macroeconomic coordination of the RS at present and are also about the movement of economic flows in the Republic of Serbia and thus we can say that there is a certain solidarity of the Republic of Serbia's budget, that is, all citizens, to share in this sense the fate of the Republic of Serbia's budget and of the citizens of Serbia. As far as the SPS Parliament Club's position is concerned, I must say that at this point, we really don't have enough convincing, no new arguments, no new attitudes, which in an unequivocal way would convince us to change our position that we had at the end of September this year. That is why we support the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4890	Thank you. Before we continue, I ask the MPs of the people to be quiet and let the speakers speak. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4891	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Fellow MPs, Mr. President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, the Democratic Party's parliamentary club today will support the draft law supplementing the Law on the budgetary system, which was sent to the republic's parliament by the AP Vojvodina Assembly. As has already been said, the Budgetary System Act was amended on 28 September this year during budget rebalancing for 2012, in the case of AP Vojvodina, which is a violation of Article 184. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia explicitly states that the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures. Contrary to such a clearly defined imperative constitutional provision, the government then adopted a solution to this parliament, under which the basis for determining the volume of the Vojvodina budget was presented as only expenditure financed from tax revenues. Therefore, the basis for the establishment of the duchy budget has been narrowed down and in a fully voluntary manner the budget for Vojvodina has been established. This legislative solution has produced not only an unconstitutional reduction in the volume of the Vojvodina budget, but also a number of other problems, because it is impossible to determine from which sources and types of income and incomes and expenditures will be financed, as tax revenues, as it is known, can be financed not only by expenditures, but also by expenditures, and those as we can see would not enter into account for the basis of the budget. The attempt by MPs at the time of the September debate, the MPs of the DS and other parties, to correct such a solution, failed, and that is why it is quite logical for us from the DS that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina sent this legislative proposal to the Republic of Serbia, but also as we know it has procedure for reviewing constitutionality before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. The government, however, rejected a proposal from the Vojvodina Assembly, citing that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia did not precisely define the basis on which the percentage is applied. We think it's an arbitrary interpretation of the Constitution, because you know exactly what the budget is. In fact, the budget law itself defines very precisely the budget as a comprehensive plan of income and income and income and expenditure plans, organised in two separate accounts as a) an account of income and receipts made on the basis of non-financial assets and expenditures and expenditures for the acquisition of non-financial assets and b) the financing account. So we have no problem knowing what the budget is or that in some legal act it is not precisely defined. Even though we would appreciate, for example, the argument that we need to establish a more precise basis, why the fundamental change, that's the question of the previous Budgetary System Act, I mean the legal solutions that were in force before September changes. I can agree even with the the thesis that has been made here and the previous solution did not quite fit in the full sense of the Constitution solution, but it was more favourable than we now have by amending the Financial System Act, which in September the current government here acted. In order for this unfavourable solution to be justified, the government, in its opinion that it rejects the law of the duchy assembly, has indicated that the existing solution provides efficient financial planning and public finance management. It is said that only tax revenues that are regular, current revenues that are foreseeable for a longer period of time and with a stable dynamic of percentage participation in GDP are taken on the basis. It is also said that the reliability of assessing tax revenues during the medium term allows for more realistic planning, both republican and regional policies and projects. From this position, it would be concluded that the Republic Government is more concerned with the interests of the Vojvodina and the Vojvodina than with the Vojvodina Assembly. In this proposal, Maltene offered some poorer solution. Maltene gives up the way of funding from tax revenues. Of course, that's not true. As usual, the current government likes to pollute over something that is not controversial or that no one has questioned. That's exactly what this part of the explanation looks like. So, I will repeat once again, the Vojvodina Assembly suggests that income is taken as a basis for the Vojvodina budget, as well as income from non-financial assets, which includes tax revenues for which the republican government stands. In the opinion, however, the government again responds to a proposal that no one has made when commenting on a proposal from the Vojvodina Assembly, that they are essentially entering and receiving from non-financial assets. In fact, the government is talking about non-tax revenues, revenues from court fees and incomes from indirect users, and it teaches that these are the incomes of a dedicated character, and that these are often incomes of a one-time and discretionary nature, that their assessment is very unreliable, as if someone had requested this bill that is before us to enter into the foundation for the Vojvodina budget. It's a really strange manner of government, giving answers to questions that no one asks and rejects proposals that have not been delivered to her. Is this about arrogance? Does this mean that the proposed laws are not read or the government treats legislators in an unserious way? It's really hard to decide. Everyone can interpret how good-looking he is. Anyway, I think this government thing is gonna come back to her like a boomerang. On the other hand, it worries that every new government proposal is a worse solution than the existing legal solutions we have had. Parliament has been criticised these days for doing little work, but I would say, if it is going to produce worse and worse legal solutions, that perhaps it is not a great pity that it is not working in the new government's mandate, as it has been in the past four years. I would like to repeat that before the law in the budgetary system in September this year, as a basis for determining the volume of the Vojvodina budget, revenues have been taken, but also receipts from the sale of non-financial assets. After September changes, it further reduced the volume of the Vojvodina financing and reduced only to tax revenues. The DS MPs oppose such solutions, because not only are they unconstitutional, but they also cause serious economic and political consequences in Vojvodina, but also in Serbia and part of Serbia, I would say, at least what we have been following since we have a new assembly of parliament and the new government, the continuing economic weakness of the province by the current government. We believe that the declarative support for the achieved autonomy of Vojvodina, on the one hand, has just quoted one colleague as saying that these views were present at the prime minister's exposé, and on the other hand we have the adoption of legal solutions that objectively endanger the economic position of Vojvodina, necessarily produce political implications. I must also note that on this case we see that the finance minister has completely abandoned his favorite political mantra on Serbia's decentralisation, leading to absurdity the whole idea of unprecedented fiscal centralised. We hope that the Government and the Finance Minister have not resorted to these solutions because of the fact that the province's rule is made up of parties that do not participate in the Republic government and that this is not how the citizens of Vojvodina are punished, who are different politically determined. In order to avoid such interpretations, such as the bad ones of Vojvodina and the citizens of Vojvodina, we at the DS Parliament Club consider it a good solution to systematically regulate the financing of Vojvodina, i.e. to adopt a law on funding and thus avoid any politicisation and, worse still, politics. Here I agree with Mr. Pastor, we need discussions, institutional solutions, because we represent citizens who have given us confidence to lead Vojvodina and promote the lives of its citizens. Some of this Parliament have no obligation. The duchess didn't give them any votes, they don't have any mandates in Vojvodina, and maybe that's why they treat Vojvodina so irresponsiblely and the interests of the people of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4892	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Jelena Travar-Miljević, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4893	I'm sorry, just one little replica on my colleague's discussion. When we talk about decentralisation, I would like to remind you that this Parliament has passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of local self-government and that local self-government is getting more funding. I'd also like to remind you that one of the IMF's main concerns with the fiscal council...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4894	Mrs. Miljevic, I have to interrupt. I didn't hear Mrs. Lucic mention you at all, not even your MP group. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that in Serbia we can accept everything and make a deal, but when it comes to money, it's kind of harder to go here with us. As far as I could, I listened to the discussions of my predecessors, the authorized representative, the promoter, and I think some things have to be cleared up a little bit. What's essentially the budget? What part is it made of? The budget consists of income and expenditure. The upcoming side consists of budget revenues, those real revenue and consists of a budget deficit, which is defined as follows. It is defined by the sale of non-financial assets, defined by loans and defined by the sale of the Republic of Serbia's assets. That's the revenue side of the budget. I understand the promoter in one part, in order to finance his original powers, the AP requires that he be given one piece, as you have defined, because non-financial assets are only government bonds, or securities of value. I don't know how to interpret whether the loan is financial or non-financial, but it's the revenue side of the budget. The question is, how would the Republic be financed today with a deficit like this that we have? From the Republic of Serbia's budget, apart from funding the powers of the AP Vojvodina, we also have transfer funds to fund units of local self-government. Even if this government accepted this bill, even if this assembly voted this bill the way it is, the same question could be asked by local self-government units the next day, because they also exist and have some autonomy. Then we would enter a story that had no end and we couldn't possibly move away from what and how to define with the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What else is funded from the Serbian budget? In addition to capital expenditure, the Health Fund of 320 billion dinars is financed, a pension fund of 280 billion dinars is financed, the military is financed, police financed, health care financed, education financed. When you look at what is being financed, it is questionable whether it is only on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, without the province, or all together. I think that, under the current Budget Law and the draft budget law, the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia is financed. That's the thing to talk about. The AP Vojvodina's job is to finance its original powers and responsibilities transferred and entrusted by the Republic of Serbia. I fully agree that the Republic of Serbia has the obligation to provide funds for the exercise of these powers, but the Republic of Serbia must also, regardless of religious, national or any other belonging, take care of all citizens living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and finance the conditions under which municipalities and cities outside the territory of the capital, which has a special law, and the territory of the AP Vojvodina. We're getting into this one story now. If we look at our budget for this year, it's 220 or 240 billion dinars in deficits. If the budget for next year, or the draft budget law, is to be viewed, it should be at some deficit of 122 billion dinars. The question now arises – if we accept these amendments and the additions of the Law, if the state does not issue securities of value, but raises loans, will that deficit enter into the revenue side of the Republic of Serbia's budget and that some of these funds be rerouted to the AP Vojvodina. That's the problem. If you already wanted to limit yourself to non-financial assets, why is it not written in the bill – non-financial assets and loans raised by the Republic of Serbia? Then we wouldn't have a dilemma, and this is what we have. This way we can come into one situation to give nine billion dinars more, I speak hypothetically, to provide nine billion and 630 million dinars next year for the new borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, to finance the AP again on the revenue side of the budget. Just because of all this indeterminateness, some real ones, which I can say belongs to all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because this revenue side of the real funding budget, and real sources of funding, is the tax of giving. It is a reflection of our economic power, our economic power, our state of affairs in the country, and only in this way can it be the basis for funding trusted and transferred competences, both for local self-government units and for the AP Vojvodina. Let's leave, probably, what I think is already pretty ugly, because here is the president of the province's government today announcing an assessment of the constitutionality of the Budget Law. It is not an air conditioning that can be discussed, especially as this law has not yet been declared by the Serbian Parliament, and the 2013 budget law is only now in the procedure. As far as I understand the mandated representative of the motionor, I'm interested in whether 52 billion dinars, provided for by the 2012 Budget Law, passed on to the AP Vojvodina? If you have not received that money in the past four years, then it is questionable why we have passed the 2012 Budget Law if that money has not been passed to you, at least proportionate to the part at which time it is in the time frame. So, according to some time frame, it was supposed to be delivered to you, or transferred about 47 billion. As far as I know, it was the Law on Mr Mirko Cvetkovic's budget, and as far as I know, the draft budget law of the AP Vojvodina for 2013 should give him 58 billion dinars, which, of course, you must agree, is not small. Maybe it's not enough. Today in Serbia, the way it is, no one's money is enough, but it's our reality and our possibility. Due to all these indetermination and a rather bad atmosphere when adopting this law and the questions why, by now, the AP Vojvodina, and I must agree that the ruling structure in the AP Vojvodina is very similar to that of the governing structure that was four years ago, did not refer to the Assembly that voted Mirko Cvetkovic as prime minister as one of the same draft laws, but now that we are at two different levels of government, in two different political options, I now feel that the representatives of the government of the AP Vojvodina want to create a picture that Serbia Vojvodina is not a mother, but is a mother, which is certainly not true and it seems to me, the greater goal of ensuring political popularity in Vojvodina, and I do not mean you, I mean, I mean, the representatives of the Government, the Prime Minister of the government of the Vojvodina, to create certain political points with one such a story, and that is seen in terms of the budget and the budget of the Republic. Most of all, because of the situation in which Serbia is in the day, due to earlier practices that we did not establish, but established by the previous government, the SNS in Voting Day will not support this proposal to amend and supplement the Budgetary System Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4896	Thank you. Mr. Pastor, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4897	Ladies and gentlemen, in no way do I feel invited to comment on your contribution to the theory, but what I have to say is that the basic problem is that the law that we want to change is problematic because it is not coherent. What we want to point out is that this coherence must be established. This article could be changed in relation to defining what is meant by the budget, but then what is written in Article 2 of point 23 of the same law should be changed. Since Article 2 of point 23 defines what is meant by the budget, then it cannot be changed arbitraryly by one additional member or by one of the next members of the same law, because it is practically a sign that the law with its solutions is on its own. That's what this solution points to, and this solution has the ambition to correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4898	Thank you. Mr. Laszlo Varga has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4899	Madam Vice-President, Mr. President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this session today is a very regular session, but I think there are several circumstances that point out that it is in some way special. I'd single out two reasons why I'm saying that. On the one hand, after 2005, so after seven years, this will be the first session to hold the draft budget law in a time-consuming manner until December 15th. I think it deserves praise. On the other hand, after nine years, so after 2003, this is the first opportunity to put one proposal set by the AP Vojvodina Assembly on the agenda of the National Assembly. A few weeks ago, when the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the National Bank Act was on the agenda, I voiced hope that this would happen. Many laughed here in the hall, and here we are today discussing the bill submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. I think these facts point out, however, that there is a ruling majority and presidency of the National Assembly one desire to increase the democracy of this institution and that, regardless of what I belong to one opposition party, I think it's time to say it. On the other hand, it will be this session today, or it is already interesting and a little strange for another reason. That reason refers to a phenomenon that is reflected in a rapid change in the views of some MPs and even of MPs. Until a few months ago, however, during the previous ruling, there were numerous laws, budget laws, the Public Property Act, etc., which were a great opportunity for MPs, first of all, from Vojvodina to the interests of the autonomous province. What many will do today, of course, is commendable, but I think that credibility in this case is a little bit under question. Namely, credibility can be built much more effectively when you are in power, or when you are a member of the ruling coalition. On all those occasions, when it was an opportunity, there were few MPs in this room who tried to end up defending this constitutional guarantee of 7%, respectively, three weeks from the AP Vojvodina budget. We have no illusion that this bill will be accepted today. The government had a negative opinion, and in the end, in the voting day, it will turn into a negative statement on this bill, but certainly there was one significant need for this debate, that is to say, to this point of the agenda at today's session. If we look at the last six, seven years, just over the last six years since the adoption of the new Constitution, I think we can unequivocally see one trend, one clear trend, one clear process which, when the Budgetary System Act was amended at the end of September, practically, came to an end. I'll try to explain now what this is about. So, constitutional guarantee, we talked a lot about it, Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia consists of two parts. The first section refers to the amount of the AP Vojvodina budget, that's what it's called. 7%. The second part of the constitutional guarantee refers to the structure of the AP Vojvodina budget. The part says that at least three weeks of the province's budget must be used for capital investments. Since 2007, there have been two trends, two clear tendencies. The first trend or the first trend refers to one part of the constitutional guarantee, the part that regulates those so-called. three weeks, so, the structure of the AP Vojvodina. Since the beginning of 2006, since 2006, we have witnessed various tricks based on which the share that is free, so to speak, in the AP Vojvodina budget, has become increasingly reduced in terms of free availability by the province's administration. It took place with the inclusion in the budget of the Duke's salaries of educators, and continued to include the National Investment Plan and later the transfers of local self-governments, etc. At one point we came into a situation that was already clear to everyone and that, essentially, that part of the constitutional guarantee was not applied. It is on paper, and in budget laws, many times this principle was respected, of course, at the end of the year and in practice it was a completely different situation. The second part of the constitutional guarantee, a guarantee relating to the level of the AP Vojvodina budget, also slowly relocated. By amending the Budgetary System Act, we have reached the end of the process. So, until one stage after which it completely loses its meaning, the constitutional provision on financial guarantees for the AP Vojvodina budget. I think that these are the two key reasons why this bill should have been put on the agenda, discussed it, and thus showed our differences, as far as we are concerned, with what has happened in the past six to seven years. It was said that the Vojvodina budget, i.e. that the people of Vojvodina were damaged by 740m euros. That's how much the AP Duke's budget has been cut in the last six or seven years, and that's true. On the other hand, I would like to underline once again, on occasion when we had the opportunity to stand in the way of this phenomenon, here in the National Assembly, then many MPs who are talking about this today were very loudly silent. It's one fact that needs to be subdued several times. On the other hand, it can be laminated over the contents of the Constitution, but the Constitution is what it is and it will not change in due course, so it remains our only option to ask that it be respected. An attempt to create some illusion of discontinuity between the current period, the period since the formation of the new government and the period that preceded the formation of the new government, for example, between the period of formation of the last government, I don't think it stands at all. In fact, what I was talking about is a trend that started in 2006-2007 and that lasts until today. The only thing that might be one difference is that today we're in the most drastic situation possible. I want to give an example, which certainly proves what I'm talking about. In all previous budgets, i.e. in all last year's budgets, funds that were transfer funds, current transfers for capital investments in the AP Vojvodina. In some years it was three billion dinars, in some years four, this year it is 3.7 billion dinars. The private budget that the transfer will not contain is the 2013 budget, based on the Budget System Law, which we are discussing today. Those who try to convince you that Vojvodina will receive more funds, are deeply mistaken. Vojvodina will receive fewer funds and will receive in particular less of those available, which can be used for water, sewerage, schools etc. There's been a lot of talk about it in these few hours in today's debate. In the end, I also want to say that there have been a lot of words about the Vojvodine Development Bank, about the Capital Investment Fund, and these are all legitimate issues, in any case. But all those who raise these legitimate questions must first ask themselves a question – how is it possible that since 2001 this Parliament has not discussed the Republic's final account? So neither during the government since 2004-2007 nor later. Something happened twice before. So, all those who speak of the need to control the province's institutions and who are the MPs, I think they should first ask themselves a question -- why don't they control those institutions that are under the authority of this Parliament? In the end, I want to appeal to all the ambassadors of Vojvodina to support this bill, not to meet again in a few months in a situation where, if not publicly, they will surely be ashamed of themselves for what they voted today or in the voting day. On the other hand, the appeal is particularly addressed to MPs who are concerned about the process of decentralisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4900	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4901	Dear Vice-President, Mr. President-in-Office of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, honourable fellow MPs and all citizens of Serbia who watch the transfer, on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, I will be very brief. Because I'm in most of the discussions I've heard irritated. Why do I say that? Because here, I don't know how to use a kind word without hurting anyone, playing cat and mouse. The mandated promoter, which is the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, was to submit this proposal to amend and supplement the law, knew that it would not be adopted, as we all know here that it will not be adopted. As well as colleagues from the main opposition party, at least by the number of mandates, will vote in favour of this law, and they know it will not be adopted. That's why they said they'd vote. Otherwise the feathers would fly in the congregation on Sunday. So I realized, the budget and making amendments to the budget, to give someone something has to be taken. Who would be taken in this case? Do the poor municipalities in southern Serbia, in western Serbia, Belgrade? Mr. President, I know, today I learned this information, unfortunately, that of the five poorest municipalities in our country are three from Vojvodina. Traveling to Vojvodina, in party work, I was surprised and shocked to say that there are so many, peopleally poor women I've never seen in other parts of Serbia. That's not the point. I ask the question, if we all know this won't be adopted, why is this on the agenda today? Why are we spending a million dinars today? I didn't find another excuse and another word, a second explanation, except Mr. President of the Vojvodina Assembly here said frankly. I mean it. That's the word, trust. If we need, who are the people's representatives, and you in Vojvodina, and we in Serbia, and all together, to gain trust in public transmissions and at sessions, then so be it. Then let's insist on that trust. You said today, Mr. President, that this is a budget financial issue. It seems to me that we're not lying, that it's not just a budget financial issue. There's politics here. You said, on the question of a fellow MP, that the means, believe me, I don't know how else to say what you're getting, I don't know why they'd say you're getting, probably you've earned it. You said there was no provision in the law that the state of Serbia would control that money. Here, you will gain confidence if today in public transmission you say that you yourself, as the leading man in the Vojvodina administration, because I have always considered this Assembly, insist in this task force to introduce a member of the law that the state of Serbia has the right to control that money. Who gives money where there's no right to control it? You'll gain trust, Mr. President. I'm telling you this honestly, and you understand me any way you want. Who knows me knows I'm being honest. If we citizens ask you, we Serbians who have some doubts about what's going on in Vojvodina around the Development Bank, and everyone is silent, then with citizens who are not informed enough, and even with me who may be more informed than ordinary citizens, raises some suspicion. Then the citizens ask -- how is it possible that we as a state of Serbia are giving guarantees for five billion, so for 15 billion for the capitalisation of the Metals bank that's been doing business with some people that this country and the whole world are chasing around the world, and there's no answer? We have to ask – do they have the right of the citizens of Leskovec, the citizens of Čačka, Užica, Luciana to ask where our money is and that they do not feel, as one colleague from the ruling coalition said that he feels like a Slovenian. We don't want to feel like someone who lives on someone else's account. So, what does it take? You said it right. Trust. Let this task force sit down and arrange something for the humane, if possible in general politics, I go in this line, perhaps I am wrong, it is a difficult time to share this cake that we have as a state of Serbia justly, honestly and respecting the Constitution. A colleague from the ruling coalition said seven, and I don't know what 17. I can say the same thing, as a Chacan, why does it even exist in the Vojvodina Constitution? No one has given any explanation, but now it turns out, that these silent ones, who in Vojvodina have a lot of votes, do not wave with the state of Serbia in the situation they are in, let's give them something. That's not how I see it. Can we make a deal or can't? Is it for Vojvodina, Mr. President, I know who I'm asking, the solution to the referendum? Don't lie to me, that you, in confidence with me, are telling the Serbian what you agreed in Brussels the other day. Let's not let the media do what you say politics is where it's not supposed to be. I repeat, I'm saying that with deep conviction that you've performed here as an honest man. That's who I am, and I'm trying to be. Does this mean that Lajosh or Mitar, someone from Vojvodina, will live better, if you box here, as the people say, 17%? I'm not convinced. Perhaps you will tell us, as a sign of trust, how much pay the MPs in your assembly, who you chair, have and how many sessions do they have per year? Then Lajoš, Miroslav or Peter from Subotica will see if he takes Belgrade, and now he should take Novi Sad from them. How much does this administration cost? What do you think, if an ordinary man and an ordinary citizen do business, what do I have from you here? If Belgrade is supposed to give me 7% of what I've earned, then why would you exist in Novi Sad? Why the government of the Vojvodina? Do you know how an ordinary man thinks? I believe, no matter what religion or nation it belongs to. The other day, two prime ministers are sitting and negotiating and talking, and half of Serbia is starving and is on the verge of existence. So, please take this as my appeal, as an authentic Serbian who, for some time, suspects what is being done, as if I were supposed to be a scientist, Mr. Pastor, so I don't know that NIS headquarters is in Chačka, where there would be excises. It wasn't NIS, Jugopetrol, and these nitrogens weren't made just like that, it was a political decision to be in Vojvodina. It is now required, as I hear it, 47% of the excise duties charged on the territory of Vojvodina. It could've been NIS in Cacca, so the whole of Serbia would've paid in the Cacca Excise, as it is now paying Novi Sad. It's not "Srbiagas" a duke's firm. "Srbigas" is a Serbian firm, a state-owned firm. I wanted to tell you that you will gain greater trust not only judging those who advocate or propagate the elimination of autonomy. I'm into autonomy. I'm a patriot's place, like a Chacan. I understand, but you have to understand us, too. Condemn even harder, Mr. Pastor, who advocates the Republic, for the Duke's Republic. Then you'll be trusted by the Leskovec people, Chačka. You first support the construction of a highway from Belgrade, you will soon have it in full profile. You first, not some of your members asking where Požega is. Not from your party, but to say the autonomist, and she lived in Chačka for 15 years, she gave birth to two sons and 20 km away from Chačka asks where Požega is. We from Serbia don't know what the highway is. Do you think we don't know that we don't know what payment ramps are? We know. That's how you gain trust. I do not want, as this colleague does not want to feel like a Slovenian, referring to 1988, 1989 or 1990, to feel like a Serbian citizen living in a part of Serbia, who is taking something away from someone. That's not true. What had to be 7%, a nice fellow pie, why wasn't it 17%? We all know very well that it would vote for the Constitution. It was the price of a party that is in power in Vojvodina and has the highest support. Unfortunately, that's true, but not only because of your work or your work, but also because of the electoral system. If the entire electoral system, Mr. Pastor, had been in Serbia, the coalition, let's move Serbia, would have 150 MPs, so we'd have a different conversation here. So I ask you to understand, honestly, that everyone puts down, as the people say, the ball. This is wonderful here today. That's how I realized it. I need to talk to you. If there is another session, the people will pay for the sessions, but people will agree that an ordinary citizen has some benefits both in Vojvodina and Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4902	Thank you. The word is Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4903	Mr. Markicevic, thank you very much for your discussion. I had no intention of exorcising you, but I see that this question has affected you quite a bit. I don't feel guilty about it at all. You're saying -- why do we initiate a question when we know in advance that it's doomed? It's simply because we don't know it's doomed. Parliamentary democracy is to propose appropriate solutions by those who are empowered by law to do so. The parliamentary procedure is to appear in that arena called the Assembly. Parliament's procedure is to present arguments and persuasion, to face and then to examine where the majority is. I don't know where most of them will be. I have to tell you, I haven't heard any serious argument here today that has put into question what we've been saying since the beginning. If so, and that is not the case, there is no argument in the reasoning of the Republic government which rejects this proposal, then I think we still have a chance to convince you to vote for a solution that removes a flagrant problem of conflict of conflict between the conflict of law itself. That's why he brought me here, that's why he's gonna keep me here at any moment when it's rational, with all due respect, to express my views and to contribute to the discussion. When I said this was a budgetary-financial issue, it was, but I also said that this is a constitutional and legal issue and a value system issue. Whatever you want, you can experience it. That it's a political question, yes. I ask you: Is this home not a home where politics is guided and determined? Yes, it is. If so, then why is the problem if we are running for a political issue and we want to conduct a civilised debate and see if that idea has a majority? It's the only ambition we're handling, no different. As for the control deal, there's no control, sir, what can we do about it? It is known which institutions are, it is known which founding institutions are, it is known which institution it accounts for, but it is also known who they are that have the ability to control from the aspect of law respect as elements of the state system of force. There are no Vojvodina institutions, including the "Development Bank" and the Capital Investment Fund, and whatever you want an institution that no authority of the Republic of Serbia can enter to check business. What I insisted on today in the debate is not saying the flat-rates, but using the authority of the one who has the job, that if he thinks he has something to check, he should go ahead and check it out, so if he comes across something that's problematic, then he should apply those instruments he has. Otherwise, I don't think we can negotiate where NIS is, like we can't, unfortunately, negotiate about where Las Vegas is. If we could make a deal, we might argue that he'd be here, but it's practically facts, facts. NIS is where it is and we can't move it, even if we want to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4904	Thank you. Mr. Markicevic answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4905	Mr. President, when I said I was irritated, I didn't mean you at all. That might be the third time I've told you again. I said I was irritated by the discussions of some of my colleagues, because they put their heads in the sand. I don't know what this is about. When you mentioned NIS, I said that it was also NIS headquarters was a political decision years ago I don't know how many years ago. There was no NIS headquarters in Vojvodina which the Vojvodina as Abu Dhabi was rich in oil. It could've been in the H.I.S. Headquarters. That's what I'm talking about. If you say that Vojvodina has been denied, let the commission determine, let the financing law be passed and you will see how New Serbia's MPs react. Let's go and be the patriots' bar, and we come from different backgrounds, nothing is disputed. At the same time, he is trying to say that there is unemployment there now, that wages are lower than at the level of Serbia's average. Then nothing was taken from you, then you really get, with such discussions, it turns out that you get 7% on a gift. I don't think so, I just think your mechanisms, I mean, I hope and believe as most of your colleagues here, that next year or next year will be something better, so there'll be more money. I know that, like every family, Serbia is one family, when there is no money then politics and everything begins. I hope that's all I believe, according to your discussion. I realized this session today and the discussion, with one word I interpreted it – trust. You would gain the most trust if you, as the second most important speaker of the Assembly in this country, condemned what has been brought into The Hague. You duchess have helped these people a lot, they live with you there. That's why you had to do it, not for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4906	Thank you. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4907	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Vojvodina Assembly, I have carefully followed the discussions so far, and the current course is very interesting. Whenever budget discussions or some financial issues begin, the issue of whether Vojvodina should have autonomy or not at all, which I think is more than curiosity in Serbia's political life, opens up immediately. It is absolutely bizarre to discuss today whether Vojvodina should at all have its institutions and budget and whether the central government, or the current regime, or the ruling majority, has less hearing about the fact that Vojvodina has certain specificities, economic, social, demographic, compared to the Austro-Hungarian monarchy in 1848. I think it's completely devastating, that today, in 2012, we are discussing whether Vojvodina should have its own congregation at all and whether those decisions should be respected or not. When we had rebalancing, not only now with this government, but with previous governments, whenever there is a question of the autonomy of Vojvodina, we return to the fact that representatives of the province's authorities have to beg here in Belgrade, to pray to ministers, to fully arbitraryly interpret the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which I will remind again, did not get a majority in Vojvodina. Perhaps some today think that the people of Vojvodina didn't vote for this constitution because they thought that 7% were too much, so they didn't vote for it, so it should be less than 7% today. In my opinion, it's even fairer, here, colleagues from the DSS say Vojvodina shouldn't have autonomy at all, and that's completely legitimate. I think it's extremely honorable for them to say so openly. They may feel that there is no institutional capacity to decide on some problems, that it is much better when it comes to Belgrade, Moscow or where it comes from. But representatives of the parties who openly claim that duchy autonomy is not compromised, and they keep repeating it in public information means, and then when we come to the fact that we only need to respect what the Constitution says very clearly, which is that the duchy budget should be 7% not of the tax revenues, but of the minimum 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Now, what my colleague says before me, you're quiet. Of course, the duchy question, that is, what we are discussing here today, is a couple of excellent political issues, it is good that Mr. Pastor finally got a chance to come here and explain it in front of an institution called the Vojvodina Assembly, since so far it has been a practice that every salary on the Boulevard in Belgrade had more media attention than the Vojvodina Assembly. Even if we wanted to, we couldn't explain the suggestions we've had over the past 23 years. I say, that's a political question, a question of Vojvodina, because we should at some point define whether we want to live in a state that's arranged in a way that solves problems at a local level, and then some problems in the province, and certain things, of course, at a central level. Or we want to organize a state that is medieval, where we will have a central government that has the power, that collects taxes and decides on life and death, and absolutely respects no one's interest except those he thinks are priorities. It is a question that is much more serious than whether Vojvodina today has 7% or not 7%, but I hope that it will soon come to the agenda. In terms of Vojvodina's budget itself has been abolished for the past six years by 740m euros, which if we were to count on giving 5,000 euros per job as it seems today when a foreign investor appears, we would be able to secure 148,000 jobs. I really think it is of great importance because unemployment in Vojvodina is even higher than the average of the Republic of Serbia and that we were once at the level of Slovenia's development. In any case, this is a great opportunity for the ruling majority to deny what we have been saying for 20 years that Vojvodina should get what it itself is creating, and I think it would be a small step for the current regime and a big step for the development of parliamentary democracy in Serbia. I think the proposal presented by the Vojvodina Assembly is more than good, so we as LSV will, of course, support it. Thank you. Mr. Palalic, you have the right to the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4908	Mr. Stojsic made one mistake. The Democratic Party of Serbia supported the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and our programme definition is that Vojvodina is an AP within the Republic of Serbia. We believe that the solutions supported by the citizens of 2006 concerning the jurisdiction and financing of the AP Vojvodina are a measure of autonomy that is sufficient. But unlike you who voted four years in the National Assembly for all the budgets that denied the AP Vojvodina's right to 7% of the DSS and when it was in power, it supported the budget proposed by the government of Vojislav Kostunica and voted against all the budgets that these rights were denied by the Vojvodina, which you voted for. Therefore, you who rule for 12 years in Vojvodina, honor us for how to respect the Constitution and whether the DSS respects the Constitution and especially the issue of Vojvodina autonomy. And how we respect him and insist on this opportunity to obey this Constitution. But you gentlemen explain why you have supported the government for four years on budgets that have been denied by the citizens of Vojvodina. It's a fundamental question, if we want to talk openly, and I believe this is where we can talk about it. Hand to heart, beside us who voted out of the opposition against, only the SVM then voted and insisted that this matter be discussed. You voted that and you explain who's been ruling for 12 years what's causing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4909	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4910	The Honorable President, the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina, respected fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, we are again in front of one topic that always stirs up a lot of passions, and as a folk MP who comes from Somboro, the city of Vojvodina, a city that cultural matrix not only in Serbia, but also in Europe, a city that has established many things in the organization and way of organising all forms of life, I need to remind all of us, since we have touched some historical moments, that in general there has been a problem for us to share and that this division is not just another, I will be so metaphorical, Broz's prank. You know, in time, two autonomous provinces were created when it was the Yugoslavia that I still remember, in which I was born, and many of you, many of you, therefore, where there was a duty that Serbia should be weak and make two provinces, and so Yugoslavia will be strong. It was the same logic that someone who made the house would say that the house would be stronger if you were to retest the beam. The consequences of that are our heritage today. That's why today we have this and this passionate debate that's just a debate, and the concrete one won't be much behind it. We have a trust deficit as the president said, and I agree with him. But first of all, we have gentlemen deficit money. That's the question we need to worry about, why do we have a deficit of money, because we know when a house is fighting, that's when there's no money. He's switching the blame to one side or the other. Political elites have advocated this or that, all for citizens living in Vojvodina. Gentlemen, I come from Vojvodina, I come from Somboro, so in Vojvodina, it mostly does nothing. Farmers who are resources to whom everyone swears, if they don't rob buyers, rob droughts, or some other elemental disaster. So, there are only safe salaries in Vojvodina, those coming from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, these are the salaries of educational workers, the salaries of health care, the salaries of the police, and they are being spent here in Vojvodina. Don't forget that part of the cake. So we've come to say that Vojvodina is underdeveloped. That's true, everything is underdeveloped, is some other landscapes sufficiently developed in Serbia. We want Vojvodina to be extremely developed, and I want it. I want my city, which is an example of beauty and beyond, to succeed in the great love of all of us, the position and opposition of all these years living and working in it, with great effort to preserve that image, so I want it to continue to be on that idea to be European Hollywood. But the fact is that without the economy, neither Serbia nor the Vojvodina will be in the future, to the extent that we want them to. So we came to this stage that everyone wants to work on the budget and don't tell me, colleagues, because that's true, they don't call you everyday friends, acquaintances, strangers, party members, their acquaintances, to hire someone in some public enterprise and some institution. Everyone wants their child to work there. Why? It's a secure salary. Gentlemen, we don't have to be economists to know that the budget can't be the biggest employer, the employer has to be an economy to make the budget rich. Today, we have a problem of about 7% that belongs to or does not belong to the Vojvodina, about this constitutional category, I have no dilemma with the Constitution, absolutely for respecting and absolutely agreeing with what my colleague from the DSS just said, how that, when Mr. President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly said there was no money before and that the Vojvodina in the previous four budgets was cut off, that now most of all, in this debate, those who voted for those budgets are attacking. It's something that's interesting and it's something that citizens will evaluate in their own way. So, we don't need this to be just a political platform, although we're all political here, and we're all talking politically here, it's not a financial issue, it's a political issue, we're not lying, we're here for politics, to solve political issues. So, what's the problem and what we have to look at, if we're wrestling here, to serve and finance another parallel administration that we have in Vojvodina, remember, we've had in Kosovo, we have now a problem that we have, and we all keep quiet, we mention it here and there, the parallel system costs the administration in Vojvodina and costs the people of Vojvodina, and we know it in Sombor. We know and all we know is who's going to take us, just like some said. We want to have in our town and we want to live off our business, and we don't have it, it's gone, there comes a foreign slaver, hires women for less than 200 euros, which then they call us, if they know us, to move them as we know and know about the maid, the cleaning lady, for a coffee shop cook, and so on. And it's a story with no end and no end. So what is the interest of all of us sitting in this high house is a strong and stable state, and a rich state, and we're not at this point. We need our strength and stability to find somewhere else, we need to rely on some other resources, but we need to stabilize. We're not going anywhere by sharing, because I never wanted to share, because as someone with a paoric mentality, I'm proud to say it, I know there's no benefit from depletion of the estate, but from the increase. I think it's in everyone else's best interest to be as small as possible, because that's how we're gonna be cheaper, normal. It's in our best interest to be as strong as possible, as safe as possible. The budget is as big as it is, what Mr. President of the AP Assembly said, so that's how much there is, when he compared those two glasses and we can share it. From an empty trunk, they say, my salsars, no one has shared anything, so neither will we. So, we need to find a compromise here, a deal, find that deficit of respect and solidarity that we may have lost somewhere, we need to find it, and for money, we need to agree and be responsible for everything that is non-purpose or otherwise spent in Vojvodina, Serbia. I've always said that, whenever there's a budget debate, it's not the property of any government, or those in Novi Sad, or those in Belgrade. Budget funds are the property of Serbian citizens and they have the right to see at any moment the way it is spent and whether it is spent on their behalf or their interest. So that's what we're obliged to lay down as an account in front of the citizens of Serbia at the moment. I expect that after this debate, we all come out more consciously, that only strong Serbia, and the other day we faced our rating in the world, has a chance to be the future. So, in a parliament in Poland, a people who forget their past don't deserve their future, we have to remember every moment of what happened to us in the past, the consequences we have now, so that we can have a safe future and only together, Vojvodina certainly in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4911	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4912	Dear Mr. Pastor, the President-in-Office, I am pleased to have the courtesy of giving my first welcome to the guest, the President of the Provincial Assembly, and I am really pleased that today we are discussing a bill of law that has arrived from Vojvodina and that you have had the opportunity to defend this bill, to state the position of the circuit assembly. This is really very important, given that, when it was discussed the Statute of Vojvodina in this same parliament, unfortunately the proposing in this House was not, because there was no political will to give the word to the Proposer that, in addition to just attending parliament, it would also explain the proposal why the province's assembly felt that the Vojvodina statute should be adopted. So that's the first part of my conversation with you and so much about praise, only I would add another commendation to the president of parliament who has fought to keep this bill on the agenda of this assembly's parliament. However, I would ask myself whether the MPs of the coalition in power have any problem supporting this law, the bill, on amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System, because the President of the Republic made it clear in Budapest the other day that Vojvodina should be financed, in accordance with the Constitution, that the Constitution must also respect those 7% that are marked in Article 184(4). The constitution, it just has to be given to Vojvodina. So, if you vote on this law, I would remind you fellow MPs from the coalition in power, given that you are the majority, to make sure that by your vote, by supporting or denying that support in fact to bring down integrity because of the president who in one foreign state, he has promised some things. You know what, we have lost the essence of this debate during today's debate, and the bottom line is that this relationship between the Republic and the province simply represents one paradigm of everything that in Serbia represents certain brakes in its development. Why am I saying that? First of all, I would like to state the Constitution and respect for the Constitution, in the case of this bill, which refers to a law that was passed a month and a half ago, which directly violates the provisions of the Constitution, whether this Parliament is being built on, by refusing to support this proposal of the Law in the province, also states that it does not want to stick to the Constitution. Secondly, the big problem in Serbia is the selective application of the Constitution, this decision of the Constitutional Court, this summer, which assesses the constitutionality of certain members of the law establishing the jurisdiction of the province of Vojvodina that it is simply impossible for the province of Vojvodina to decide on some social benefits. So much is taken care of, by chance, that the province of Vojvodina, or the laws relating to it, does not violate the provision of the Law. Then what's going on? When we talk about the bill coming from the District Assembly, which points out that we as a state, if we are to be a serious state, we must respect our own Constitution. I'll remind you, it's just surreal that all of you who have very much supported the adoption of this Constitution, we point out to you that you should appreciate and respect it and stick to it, not in such a selective way as to apply it. The constitution was brought into question by the validity of the referendum, which in fact recommended the constitution to the Serbian Parliament, to vote on it at all. Therefore, if a referendum is called into question, then the Constitution is also called into question. But to put it aside, we don't want to talk about any theft in the referendum or anything like that, but we're just going to talk about having the Constitution as it is, and as long as we have it, we have to respect it, because as long as the Constitution isn't respected, in which case we don't live in the rule of law, in which case we can expect anarchy and chaos. Thirdly, which is very important for this bill, it is an institutionalisation of the relationship between the province and the Republic. So it is not enough that the relationship of these two entities depends on whether an individual is for or against certain laws, decisions or anything related to Vojvodina. It is not enough for a political option to do so, nor is it enough for a congregation majority to decide on a draft law from the Vojvodina Parliament, but must it be brought into the institutions. I respect you, Mr. President of the Serbian Parliament, for going to the District Parliament and for talking there with the President of the District Assembly. It's really a nice gesture. But it's a gesture, a gesture like yours when you went to the Belgrade City Assembly building and demonstrated there. So there is not some seriousness that would change anything contentically about this relationship between the province and the Republic. It's a good thing we're discussing this bill today, but it's just one step and it's not enough. As long as this constitution is in force, there will be no more significant and significant change in relation to the Republic and the province, nor will this Autonomy that is now in question in Vojvodina be more significant change for the better. What is more, we can expect another kind of movement as regards autonomy, because it's already being discussed largely to question the Statute. So we're on our way to fully derivating the autonomy of Vojvodina, and that's the fact. So, I'm talking about facts. We have a constitution with too much head and too little body, which has frozen Serbia in space and time. Here's a chance for us gentlemen from the ruling coalition, let's decide, let's make it your political will to move towards constitutional reform. You in the opposition have enough power to support this constitutional reform. Here are two-thirds of our support, in order to really change the Constitution, and in that case, we will be able to change all of those provisions of the Constitution that are currently holding Serbia back, which currently do not allow Serbia to be modernised, reformed and changed, in that sense to make some economic progress. When we talk about the Vojvodina, in terms of its further development, I don't really know how you think the Vojvodina is being held at all, let alone developing, if it doesn't have its own assets – and it doesn't, if it doesn't have the original income – and it doesn't have the most, and there's no way to vote for its constitutional rights in terms of funding under Article 184(4). The Constitution of Serbia. So, with such capacities as the Vojvodinas provide, there is no economic development, there is no economic progress. So, you can't expect Vojvodina to change the economic situation more significantly in Vojvodina. So here's our chance, if you really think seriously about it, about Serbia being Europeanised, then let's change the Constitution. This remains an open question, an open possibility, and depends solely on the serious political will of the political scene of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4913	Thank you. I apologize for having to answer to you from this place because I do not have a vice president who would replace me at this point, there is somewhat a difference in performance during my visit to the Vojvodina Parliament, because I went there as president of the Serbian Parliament, who represented the National Assembly and talked about topics that are of interest, to say, for the entire assembly. In front of the Belgrade City Assembly, I represented my party, because I am a national MP, one of the same, and the vice president of my party, the president of its city committee, who presented to the Belgrade City Assembly legitimate political views of his party and why we believe that Belgrade's power is not good enough. In this sense, there is a difference in the presence of the president of the Assembly and the political representatives. However, as for gestures, gestures are gestures, and putting this law on the agenda is certainly one of the products of my conversation with Mr. Pastor, whose arguments convinced me that, among other things, one of the normal ways that this law is functioning on the agenda. Who will vote for him in one way or another, it is a matter of the will of the MPs of the people, and every MP in this assembly has his will and is free to vote according to his beliefs. I just wanted to explain this, because I don't think that the same performance by the president of the National Assembly and the representatives of the political party, and I think that the National Assembly president has the right to represent the political party he belongs to, because the National Assembly is elected from the ranks of MPs, who are members of certain parliamentary groups. The word is Mrs Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4914	Thank you, Mr. President, for clarifying your performance in the form of the president of the Serbian Parliament and in the form of a member of a political party, I can understand that. But the point is, it's not enough for any of the officials from the Republic, or from the Republic government, to go to any Regional Authority, to any Regional institution. That's not enough. Much more seriously, this relationship between the central government and the Provincial Authority should be regulated, so I was talking about an institutionalisation, which simply cannot be applied for this reason, because this Constitution, once again, which was already quite controversial in its creation, makes it impossible. So, it is a good thing that you put this law on the agenda, but some MPs have already said that it is known in advance that the law will not be passed. We have the government's opinion, so the government is also a ruling coalition, which has given a negative opinion, and all the contrary to the position expressed abroad, Mr. President of the Republic, Tomislav Nikolic. So that's where we come into some sort of illusion, illusion. I have no illusions either that you will truly, the ruling coalition, vote this law. I have no illusions because it is clear that there is still this problem between the central and the province authorities. You know, this political concept of high centralization of the state has shown its peril and has shown how unsustainable it is. Here's a chance to change that. Here's a chance to raise the decentralisation to a higher level, from the declarative to one content level.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4915	Thank you. That word is the next reported Mr. Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4916	Dear President, Mr. Pastor, I will accept Mr. Varga's suggestion that all the Dukes should plead on this matter, as well as all the other MPs. I am one of those indigenous Vojvodjans, whose ancestors succeeded in building their own fates and in building the Serbian dukedom within Austria, where Serbs fought for their rights in the framework of the Austrian monarchy during the 1848 and 1849 rebellion and who later struggled to join Serbia, which was finally done in 1918 and participated in Balkan wars and in all other wars, in which we fought for Vojvodina to join Serbia as their country. I also advocate that according to the Serbian Constitution, Vojvodina has its autonomy. It's something that's most natural and, as defined by this Constitution, it's the extent that we at the DSS support. We support that Vojvodina, accordingly, has autonomy, but we do not support that Vojvodina has its own office in Brussels and its Academy of Sciences and a number of other competences belonging to the Republic of Serbia. What I can say is that here is not the problem of the Constitution. The constitution defines what Vojvodina needs to get, which is the 7%, which Vojvodina was also receiving during the DSS and President Vojislav Kostunica's rule. It is the only period when 7% came from the Republic of Serbia's budget in Vojvodina and when the constitution was respected to the last point, to the last point. The problem arises when this constitution was not respected. There's no problem with the Constitution here. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has passed and received consent and has been confirmed by the Venice Commission, by the European Commission. He is not challenged alive, except by individuals and marginalists, who, through the challenge of the Constitution, are trying to build their own politics. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is a modern constitution, which defines the rights of national minorities in Europe in the most modern way, which do not have other constitutions in Europe. As such, he is a guarantee of the rights and freedom of national minorities, institutions and autonomy that Vojvodina now has. I am pleased that the circuit assembly has launched the topic of this law, which for us from the DSS, to mention once again, this 7% is not a problem, nor are the other rights of the Autonomous Region that arise from the Constitution. The theme of respect for the Constitution and the law is something that is very important to us and that we believe that Serbia's internal affairs or perhaps some other issue of respect for the Constitution and decisions of the Constitutional Court are not Serbia's internal affairs. Mr. Pastor, you have come to this assembly to insist on respecting the Constitution. That's perfectly legitimate, you're the president of the Vojvodina Assembly, and you're supposed to advocate that all the rights, which the Vojvodina Assembly has under the Constitution, are coming true. It's not entirely questionable for us. What happens to other obligations that belong to you as president of the Vojvodina Assembly? When will you implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia to repeal 22 provisions of the Statute and of the law? When are you going to realize that? When will this come to the agenda of the Duke's Assembly? That's what we're interested in, as well as when will it be on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament? You're going to Brussels to sue there for the Constitutional Court's decision. By doing so in Serbia, by not implementing this decision, you are producing a kind of constitutional crisis. You said you didn't know if you came to this assembly as Don Quixote, Kalimera or whatever. I don't know if you in Brussels were the same as Don Quixote, Kalimera, perhaps Darth Wade or Rambo, but you certainly tried to open an international debate on something that is an internal issue of Serbia and to seek support for not applying the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision, which concerns the annulment of 22 provisions of the Vojvodina Statute and the Law of Jurisdiction. You say the Constitution must always be respected. I agree with that. Or instead, in this second part, when it doesn't suit you, instead of Mosha Piyada, you'll quote us another great man of that Kumroving thought, the very fellow Tito, who said that we don't always have to stick to the law as a drunk float, but in some situations we can act in accordance with the law, and when that doesn't suit us, that we don't stick to it. As DSS, we seek to determine exactly what jurisdiction is and what is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to Vojvodina and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's 7%. The fundamental problem arises from the amendment of the Budgetary System Act, where this basis has been changed. The Constitutional Affairs Committee should respond to what is the basis for calculating 7%, whether these are tax revenues or total revenues. It is a matter to deal with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Serbian Parliament, not to do so in four eyes between Minister Dinkic, you, secretary of finance of the province's Executive Council or others. That question should be resolved here in the Assembly. The Constitutional Court has said what are the other powers and what can be financed and what cannot be financed from those 7%. I look forward to seeing the budget of the Vojvodina, to see if you will continue to finance the various powers that the Constitutional Court has annulled and what treatment these powers will now be in the province's budget and what treatment will be within Serbia, whether the National Park of Fruska Gora will pass under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia will initiate a procedure for selecting directors, set up a board of directors and determine the financing of the National Park of Fruska Gora. There's a responsibility in the government, not just on you. The government, along with you, is an accomplice to non-implementation of constitutional court decisions. No one at this time can amnesty the government of its part of responsibility for implementing decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Assembly itself. The congregation itself is responsible for this. The assembly majority is responsible for the Constitutional Court decisions being implemented, as these decisions are carried out by law. There is no other mechanism for their implementation, but by the law of that decision, they are implemented and we must apply these decisions immediately, without delay. The real opportunity is the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 and the budget of the AP Vojvodina for 2013. You said here that Vojvodina is no longer Serbia's locomotive, as was once said, that Vojvodina is not developing evenly, regionally, that the five poorest municipalities in Serbia are mostly from Vojvodina, that roads and infrastructures in Vojvodina are not equally developed, that many Vojvodina villages are being emptied year after year, that a departure from rural areas to cities has been observed, which towards Novi Sad, which towards Belgrade, which towards other center of Vojvodina. Whose responsibility is that? Is it Belgrade's responsibility or is it perhaps the responsibility of the province's executive council, which has not changed its composition for 12 years? With smaller variations it's the same composition entirely. Whose responsibility is that, especially when you received those 7% paid through the new Constitution and who are legal at the expense of the Vojvodina budget? How did the Vojvodina develop and did the Vojvodina develop in itself evenly regionally all parts of the Vojvodina? It's not. We've come into a situation where we have cities in Vojvodina that shine like Paris, London or other and that some villages don't have street lighting. That's the situation in Vojvodina. Whose responsibility is that? Is that what someone in Belgrade or someone in Kragujevac should be responsible for? No, it's the responsibility of the circuit executive council and the provincial authorities and the funds and finances they received and spent. Does the Republic of Serbia have any insight into having those 7%? He doesn't have any insight. Do we have any insight into how he has three weeks of those 7%, which goes into the capital investment budget, into the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund? We don't have any. But they're all budget funds. And in this budget of the Republic of Serbia for next year, you have reports for each year -- an explanation of the Republic Fund's financial plan for pension and disability insurance. So here we adopt the plans of the Pension Fund, the Health Fund, all other funds, but how money is spent from the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund no one knows, not even the circuit assembly. Only now, after three years, to report to the province's 1,600-page assembly, only after three years. No one living knows how that money is spent, whether it's through a tender, whether it's through a shortened procedure. This year alone, the budget is over 100m euros, over 10.11 billion dinars. In earlier years, it was more than that, which in dinars, which in euros. It's a huge asset, a huge number of miles. He could have cleaned the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel, prepared to drain and irrigate, so that the droughts wouldn't surprise us. There was much to be done with these funds, but someone decided to give money from Vojvodina to the Metals Bank, or the Vojvodina Development Bank, to capitalise on it with 150m euros. Then it's said there's not enough resources. Of course there's no funds. When someone doesn't care how they spend money, they'll ask themselves at the end of the month – where our money is, so when you spend the money by financing a bank that has 75% uncovered plasma, then you'll ask yourself for a reason at the end of the month – where are our money. If you're going to cover the bank's debt with 150 million euros, how many miles, how many lighting could you have done? How much could you help to keep some village from moving out because there's no road, no sewers, no lighting, help some subsidies to keep these peasants working, so they can buy new tractors, cheaper seeds, to get maybe ten cows to stay in that village? No, someone covered up the dubiosis of the Vojvodina Development Bank. You wouldn't have written a report on the Capital Investment Fund if the DRI hadn't entered to check the work of the Capital Investment Fund this year since the new government arrived. Then you better remember to put it to discuss the work of the Capital Investment Fund. If we're wondering where the money is, you need to see where the money is, because the money you're talking about is due now to Vojvodina, it hasn't been paid by budget, so it's been done by the government with which you've been sitting in a coalition in Vojvodina for how many years. That's not what the government of Vojislav Kostunica did. It was done by some other governments after her. It takes you within the family, when you all sit together for a Sunday lunch, which you would say, to agree on what you're going to do with that money, not to accuse others of being guilty of it because less money is paid than that 7%. When we talk about the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund and the lack of regional evenly funded capital investments in Vojvodina. I'll make an example of Panchev. Last year, Panchevo was due to receive $328m from the Capital Investment Fund for Works in the territory of the city of Pancheva. A contract was signed, a tender was conducted, and they got jobs. Jobs have been done. At the end of the year, the circuit fund said – we have no money to finance these jobs. Some city itself takes over to fund it. The town of Panchevo, of course, had to finance the works and pay for the works that had been done and which were to be paid from the Capital Investment Fund of the province's government. This was how the province government applied to some cities. Some light up like London or Paris, and others don't have street lighting. It's a picture of the cost of the funds and it's just because there's no control and there's no record of that money being spent and the reports being filed after four years. The Democratic Party of Serbia will always be for the respect of the Constitution and for the respect of those 7% and for this problem to be resolved here in this assembly and not to generate a political crisis by going to Brussels to internationalise the issue of 7% and the Constitutional Court decisions, that these decisions of the Constitutional Court are not relativeised, but implemented and that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is finally respected in this country. The Democratic Party of Serbia is always responsible for a responsible debate and respect for the Constitution, but those who raise the issue of the Constitution should be prepared to respect it even when their political option does not respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4917	Thank you. Mr. Pastor answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4918	Mr. Michael, about one significant part of your exposure, I fully agree. What we're talking about here today, it's not a question of the Constitution, but it's a constitutional-law issue or a constitutional issue. It is that what is written in the Constitution cannot be disputed, but what is now controversial, as it is respected, or not respected. What we are talking about today is our determined ambition to convince this esteemed home that, in accordance with what we propose, we take the example of the Law on the Budgetary System with what it says in Article 184(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's our only ambition. As for the second part of our exposure, I must say again. Regardless of how we experienced the Constitutional Court's decision, what comments we made in relation to that decision, today we fully respect the Constitutional Court's decision. Also, I have to say that prejudgment, pronunciation of sentences in relation to the outcome of proceedings before the Constitutional Court in relation to the statutes, can be assumed, but it is still a matter of prejudication. The next thing I want to say is that I agree with you when you say that the question that we are essentially discussing today is a matter that should be made clear by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. I have to tell you, the board did it this morning. For that reason today, I don't know what else we need to talk about with that aspect. Finally, I want to say that, as far as the report is concerned, you are right to talk about the fact that it has been three years since the final report of the Capital Investment Fund, but do not say what is also the fact that every province institution appears every year with its report. As president of the Assembly, I know that this year more than ten institutions submitted their work reports for last year. Just because there were no reports, that doesn't mean it worked invisiblely, but these are the things that I think we should talk about where the place is, and that's the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, the Assembly of the Founders of those institutions. Again, I must say, all the authorities of the Republic of Serbia at any moment, using their legal powers, can appear in any institution, including the province institution, to check their business. I've said that many times today. I think it's an axioma that doesn't need to be repeated, and what the system works by, say, local self-governments and institutions founded by local self-governments submit reports and accounts to the local self-government assembly, not this assembly, no matter what they get money from here, it's the way the system works.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4919	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4920	I'm glad you agree that the Constitution should be respected. I expect you to implement the Constitutional Court's decisions on the statutes in the coming period and propose amendments to the Law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. I expect that bill in this assembly and that you will support it. The second thing, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed today the bill proposal, did not consider the issue raised in public, which is what amount 7% will count on, whether of tax revenues or total revenues. By changing the Law on the Budgetary System, all revenue generated by the Republic of Serbia and from penalties for violations and everything else is poured into the Republic of Serbia's budget. All it needs is a Committee on Constitutional Affairs to define what revenue that 7% is worth. We, like everyone else in this assembly, will stick to that opinion brought by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As we applied 7% when President Kostunica was Prime Minister, so we are going to apply these other 7% and no one will question it at all. The fact is that the province's Capital Investment Fund was founded by the province's Executive Council because it submitted a report there, but even there he did not submit reports. Our parliamentary group in the circuit assembly only now has the opportunity, within a short time frame, to look at 1600 pages of the report in the last three years and to give an answer. In fact, our MPs will look into it and discuss it today. It is now being debated in the AP Vojvodina and that is what is controversial for us, because it is the money that the Republic of Serbia's budget goes to Vojvodina. It's not small money. This year about 100m euros was the budget, and earlier years it was more. Simply, it takes the public in the province through the circuit assembly to have information about how this money is being spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4921	Thank you, Mr. Michael. Before I give my word to the next speaker, I will only read you the notice I received from RTS that since 17.45 hours will not be able to continue the direct transfer of the Serbian Assembly to the second programme due to previously agreed commitments, and from that moment on, in the delayed transmission will be broadcast immediately after the sport competition. Next reported is MP Janko Veselinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4922	Thank you. I am not pleased that the debate on such an important law will not be seen directly, or will not be seen directly by the citizens of Serbia. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today there is an open debate here on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This was not a part of the agenda, but a part of the agenda was a bill that was meant to amend the existing Budgetary System Act. A debate has been opened on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in the broadest sense, whether it should be applied, whether its provisions are good, whether Vojvodina has broad or excessive autonomy? Again, I return to the answer that this is not the topic of today's debate and that, essentially, the basis of today's debate is – is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as it is, being applied or not being applied? Based on a legislative initiative by the AP Vojvodina Assembly, it is clear that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not applicable, that the ruling coalition in the Serbian Parliament is not applying the Constitution. This was clear when the Law on the Budgetary System was passed in September of this year. Today's debate is the result of this fact, and in this sense I would like to say that it is that the President of the Assembly has scheduled a debate and in this case deserves praise, however, the very cause which he led to as president of the Parliament and MPs of the ruling coalition by disrespecting the Constitution, in any way does not deserve praise, or you are in some way headed by the coalition, chairing this high house, which has violated the Constitution, for the first time since 2000, and you will be responsible for that. When I spoke about amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System, I said in September that such a bill had political, constitutional and economic aspects. However, I will refer first to the fact that individual MPs, both the ruling coalition and the DSS parliamentary group, have criticised the work of the province's government, i.e. the province's Executive Council in the previous period, and I will, for information alone, present several facts. Vojvodina is the leader in attracting foreign investment. Of all the foreign investments that have entered this country over the past six years, let's say 45% of the investments are in the AP Vojvodina. A total of 6.5 billion euros was invested. When it comes to the number of foreign investors, it is over 260 and it is mainly about productive activities. In Novi Sad alone over the past four years, three schools have been built, 11,000 square meters of space opened, surrounded by over 4,000 children. When counterpart Djeric mentioned Sombor and her desire to make him look like another Hollywood, 1,000 jobs have been opened there over the past year. Let me just remind you that in 1993 alone, in nine months, the government, which has practically been painted into the current government, has 10.000 people left without a job. In 10 months, 10,000 people were out of work in Somboro. The power of the SRS, now in the image of SNS, SPS, etc. I am going back to the political dimension of the problem concerning this law which has been passed and the amendment, that is, the bill relating to this amendment. Namely, the Law on the Budgetary System puts the economic stability of the AP of Vojvodina at risk, but thus endangers political stability not only of the AP of Vojvodina, but also of the political stability of the Republic of Serbia. Maybe you're wondering why? What is the goal and why does the ruling coalition aim to have an unstable political situation? Just to draw attention from the burning issues, from the subject of unemployment, the accelerated growth of inflation after coming to power, the fall of living standards and many other things and the affairs that follow this government. When it comes to the constitutional and legal position of the AP Vojvodina, the fact is that the Budgetary System Act puts it at risk. That's what Article 184 says. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to the Republic of Serbia's budget, with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures. In that sense, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clear. He is also clear to this opposition, as I understand it, and the DSS was clear the last time we discussed the budget system and today when we are discussing a proposal to amend the budget system. It's just that we want to apply the Constitution or we don't want to apply the Constitution, and who has the right at all to make a decision not to apply the Constitution? The Constitutional Affairs Committee today said the government's proposal, or the AP Vojvodina Assembly, means that the Budget System Act is unconstitutional. That's what a member of the Constitution I've read says. So, if the government, or the Serbian Parliament, does not accept this proposal by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, means that we will continue to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it means that the AP Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia will in some way be before the Constitutional Court on this issue and that this will further create political stability, which I do not think is intended for anyone or the opposition. When it comes to the economic aspect of the Law on the Budgetary System and the proposal for its amendment, it is serious economic elements, which will be damaged by the AP Vojvodina budget. According to the Republic of Serbia's budget, the revenue side of the budget was 829,596,000,000 dinars in 2012. The 2013 proposal is 965,700,000 dinars. The difference is 15%. So the revenue side of the budget will be up 15%. As for the AP Vojvodina budget, it was 62 billion dinars in 2012, and next year, according to this projection, it will be 58 billion. That's seven percent less. So the Republic of Serbia's budget will be 13% higher, and the AP budget will be 7% lower. It's about 12 billion dinars less or more. Since this year, the AP Vojvodina budget will be damaged by 10 billion. There are new jobs, new roads, care for the second and third children, care for the socially endangered. To remind you, the AP Vojvodina has a constitutional obligation to care for national minorities as well. The AP Vojvodina has the highest percentage of national minorities. The AP participates with 20% to 30% in funding all programmes of national minorities. Such a budget will jeopardise the functioning of these minority institutions. Finally, the AP, in the framework of its powers and past these powers, forced by urgency, cares for more than 150,000 refugees living in the area of the AP Vojvodina. In the past six years, the AP Vojvodina has taken care of 5,000 people. Will the AP Vojvodina be able to continue taking care of them in the coming period and will their rights be compromised with this budget? Of course, rights will be compromised. It's the concern of this House about people who had to leave their hearth after the Storm. In the end, the DS will support an AP Vojvodina Assembly proposal. I call on all parliamentary groups to support this proposal, and in particular I call on MPs from the territory of the AP Vojvodina to support this proposal. I must say that some discussions of the ambassadors of Vojvodina, from certain positions, at the very least, surprised me. Their concern for their fellow citizens and their voters is very low. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4923	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I am reporting on the basis of the replica, as deputy head of the parliamentary group, on false claims made in the presentation of the previous speaker. The Serbian Progressive Party has no continuity and is not a continuation of the SRS. The SRS went through the May elections as it went, but SNS is therefore wanted by DS in a large number of local self-governments, as well as in Belgrade's previous city administration. As for the SNS, I will remind you that the SNS party that won the May 6th and 20th elections, Boris Tadic and DS, and I ask you to wake up and accept that fact as true. The SNS is a party that has brought changes to Serbia. The SNS is the party with the highest trust among citizens of the Republic of Serbia and has no continuity with any retrograde forces that have passed in the elections as they have passed. As for responsibility for losing jobs, I think colleagues from the DS are the last to talk about it because in the term of Boris Tadic, Serbia came to a historic maximum of 26% of the people who are unemployed from the inherited 11% when you came to power. That's not SNS's responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4925	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4926	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I met Mr. Babic in this assembly as a representative of the SRS. So much for continuity. When it comes to their concern for Serbian citizens, it has shown itself in the previous period. The citizens said their word in the previous elections. Of course, we must bear in mind the conditions in which the presidential elections took place. Let us not forget the story of stolen voices that were found not to be. Let us not forget 4,500 votes received by the SNS representative in criminal correctional institutions. Let's not forget the fact that after these same people, who are coming out of these institutions these days, have amnesty and abolized. In that sense, I would not like today's debate on the respect of the Constitution, on the fact that the fundamental right of the Constitution is respected by all MPs who were then sitting in the Assembly, excluding, I think, the LDP. I think it's better not to go back in time, but to talk about the future and the desire, not to create political tensions that we don't need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4927	The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4928	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. You have a duty to speak with respect for the dignity of the MPs. You said MPs sleep and should wake up. We don't sleep. We are about to have a budget before us, and we are facing very important laws that speak of your honesty as the new ruling coalition. Perhaps someone else in this room could wake up and answer some questions that dominated the time of the pre-election campaign, such as the Aegean Channel. We had a visit from the president of Macedonia and Greece, and we don't know how that investment ended. Also, the deputy prime minister, i.e. the first deputy prime minister in charge of all sorts of things in this government, said in the "Sunday Oversight" campaign that Tomislav Nikolic would provide 10 billion euros in annual investment in Serbia. We're reading in the budget, I haven't seen a base for 10 billion euros anywhere. I didn't see any new jobs coming to a better life. So whether or not the DS will wake up, that's our thing. What's the problem is that Serbia is sleeping waiting for you to wake up by fulfilling your promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4929	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not ashamed of being in the SRS. The party, led by Mr Tomislav Nikolic, was a serious problem with Boris Tadic and the DS. Also, while some should remember, when we talk about pre-election promises, 200,000 new jobs, and during Boris Tadic's government, 200,000 people lost jobs. Also, a colleague should know that foreign investments cannot be found in the Republic of Serbia's budget. As for pre-election thefts and election campaigns, just tell me how much money you spent making those videos and broadcasting through state television about Tomislav Nikolic and what kind of negative campaign did you run? Why did the RRA change the rules of the game every night so we wouldn't be able to answer your candidate Boris Tadic? It's your business. I don't want to talk about it. I'm interested in who paid for all these videos and are they in a financial report submitted to the Anti-Corruption Agency? If that's already been handed over, I'm very interested in whether it might be some government or some bank, and remember Agrobank and 350m euros in damage you've done to the state in just a year, so it's not hard for this government to be better than you. It's enough not to do anything and it'll be ten times better.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4931	According to the replica, the People's MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4932	Just one sentence, Mr. President. I, too, met Mr. Janko Veselinovic as DS MP, but I am not sure after weeks and democratic elections in the DS that he will remain there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4933	On what basis are you answering, Mr. Shane? Are you talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure? I'm sorry, then I should have given you my word. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4934	It's about what a colleague said about the protection and rights of national minorities in Vojvodina, and I think he's got a little bit of a run-through here. (President: Excuse me, for the record repeat another member of the Rules of Procedure you are referring to. ) I am reporting under Article 107. - Respect for the dignity of the Assembly, we should still speak the right way, because I am a representative of the minority in this Parliament club and I feel called. What do I want to talk about? It's not like minority rights are respected in Vojvodina because they're minorities. If the Roma national community, which is more numerous than some of the other national communities in Vojvodina, has no cultural development institute, has no Roma language lists, and some minorities have, then the same representatives of those minorities are not represented in parliament for a simple reason because the constitutional obligation to create such an electoral system will ensure representation of minority representatives is not respected. I immediately apologize to SVM in that regard that one of their very prominent experts said that if he were to ask himself, he would change the law and give minorities the opportunity to enter with half of the now-set censorship for minorities, not that we are in a position to give the Vojvodina Assembly minority MPs more votes than they need for the republican parliament. So that's a very serious problem. Why is the pool built in Kovacica and no new jobs are created? Why did it happen in Serbia's Montenegro to buy an independent MP by giving him pools or being done in Opovo, and minorities do not have all the rights they should have? Then a very open question arises – are we talking about minorities or are we talking about some stakeholders?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4935	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, are you answering the Rules of Procedure? You gave up? Thank you. The word is Mr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4936	Since my name is mentioned, if Mr. Babic is in a dilemma about whether or not I'll be in DS from Sunday, I'm not in a dilemma at all. I will be a member of the DS who, like any democratic party in the world, has his own elections, elects a president among several candidates, the party's authorities among several candidates to lead the party, which his party can only dream of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4937	Thank you. The next person registered for the word is MP Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4938	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Pastor, you can see how interesting it can be for us in Parliament when there's no direct transmission in the Assembly, almost the same as the derby between Partizan and Nefchi. I will agree with you that this is a political issue, that this is a financial issue and, of course, that the constitutional and legal issue, but by carefully reading the bill that came from the Vojvodina Assembly, I am really afraid that this bill is unconstitutional, because if what is written is literally read, it predicts that Vojvodina gets six times less funds than is provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'll come back to that later. It is known that on July 13th, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia declared 22 responsibilities, which are provided for by the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, as unconstitutional. After three years of requesting the DSS when we asked for an assessment of the constitutionality of the law, the Constitutional Court made a certain decision, declared them unconstitutional and, unfortunately, after that nothing had changed, at least in this assembly where it was to be discussed. This anti-constitutional legal hybrid has foreseen some institutions that are not allowed to exist in Vojvodina, has provided for responsibilities for Vojvodina that do not belong to it and, unfortunately, has opened many problems between the relations between the state authorities and the province authorities. None of us at the DSS can be happy about that. After this decision, you said something about it yourself, and many MPs today, many, in my view, will not mind me, inappropriate reactions that challenge the autonomy of Vojvodina, that it is a political decision and even some officials of the AP Vojvodina said that judges of the Constitutional Court did not have sufficient legal knowledge when they made such a decision. You said you couldn't give up the jurisdiction you have under the law, even though they're anti-constitutional. There have been attempts to internationalise the issue of the Duke. There have been attempts and an idea to pass a special constitutional law that will regulate the issue of Vojvodina's status. It was even an initiative to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party of Serbia submitted the draft law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina three years ago in the assembly procedure. For three years, we have been waiting for the law to come on the agenda, unlike your proposal, which is on the table today. I don't mind, we need to talk about it, but as an initial and initial act, we should certainly discuss our proposal, when the government has already found no appropriate proposal to propose a law establishing the authority of Vojvodina in the meantime. With this bill of law, you are asking, based on the Constitution, that a certain amount of funds be transferred to the Vojvodina. I heard from you today, and I'm glad those funds won't be used to fund the powers that the Constitutional Court has declared against the constitution. Perhaps in a certain fear that these powers would not be removed, representatives of the province's administration even brought charges against the government's account, that their rights were denied and that autonomy would be violated. Instead of the Government proposing the law in accordance with the Constitution, we were under the impression that negotiations had taken place between the Republic and the province authorities. You explained today that these were conversations and consultations in order to find the best solution. I watched the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic, who, in a conversation with Mr. Pajtic, showed a folder in which, he said, the Constitution and the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, and I have a folder containing the Constitutional Court's decision, and I only ask that it be respected in this assembly and in the Vojvodina Assembly. To remind ourselves, thanks to one perverse procedure, this law on the jurisdiction of Vojvodina came from the Statute of Vojvodina, rather than vice versa. Vojvodina's statute is directly contrary to the laws of the Serbian state when it comes to the financing of Vojvodina. The Statute of Vojvodina predicts that the AP Vojvodina itself will determine the income rate on its own. The Statute of Vojvodina gives the possibility of borrowing against the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, which does not foresee such an option. It even mentions certain supplementary transfers, a plan that does not exist in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. We've come to the debate today that there's no negotiations on respect for the Constitution, no deal. You can talk about how to get out of a certain problem. We have even proposed an amendment to this bill whether it will be adopted in the Assembly or not, to determine exactly how much revenue there is and how much expenditure of autonomous provinces in the Republic of Serbia. Then it is known precisely – Vojvodina has received so much funds by all the basics that belong to it and whether it is 7% of the budget or not. We really demand that the urgent financing of certain competences that the Constitutional Court has disputed be suspended and we demand that the tension-making campaign be cut off, some unnatural rivalry between Novi Sad and Belgrade, between Vojvodina and, say, central Serbia. Why internationalize so-called. The Duke's question? I don't want to believe that the reason we learn a foreign language is easier than we can find a common language. We can find him in this House if that's why there's a good will. You invited EU representatives to step up pressure on Serbia to oversee the work of the Serbian Constitutional Court and control the implementation of the Serbian Constitutional Court. In my opinion, I don't know if you're aware of that, it's a dangerous attack on the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. Stefan File and all-present Jelko Kacin will now deal with monitoring how the Serbian Constitution is applied. Does this mean that the EU should treat Serbia as a protectorate? Mr. Pastor, I remind you, overseeing the work of Serbian courts was a topic in 1914, when Austro-Hungarian ultimatum asked some of its demands to be respected and I think it is a shame that someone would ask the EU to do so for centuries afterwards. We were talking about the control of Vojvodina Development Banks, about the control of the spending of money from the Capital Investment Fund. You said the state authorities could come in. Did you call as president of the Assembly of the once state authorities to intervene and carry out checks? Why didn't you discuss the Financial Business Report of the Capital Investment Fund for three years? By contrast, the province's administration has recapitalised the Vojvodina Development Bank for the third time with 15 billion dinars and 150m euros, respectively. I read today the amendments submitted by the circuit assembly to the budget. Among other things, 43% of the excise duties on the territory of Vojvodina are required. It is not a question for us at this time, it is a question for the finance minister, Mr Dinkic, whether he will say he can or can't, because we don't understand what 7% of the budget is and what it refers to under the Budgetary System Act. We were against the Budgetary System Act in this assembly a month and a half ago, because we assumed what kind of problems could occur when non-financial assets were included in the budget. The Democratic Party of Serbia advocates until the last atom if 7% of the funds are to be transferred to the latest dinar in this assembly. Of course, every single dollar is spent only in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of this country. We talked about it today, and that's what you confirmed, MEPs from Vojvodina, that for the last time, 7% of Vojvodina received during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, and you said it was a constitutional-legal correct solution. It wasn't 7% of the government that you supported in the previous period, and don't tell me if you didn't get 7% that you didn't get 4% or that nothing came in 12 years, so it's not like Vojvodina's development locomotive, it's some kind of uniform. There are many problems under the Sava and the Danube that we will not solve by accusing each other, but rather by respecting what is agreed in this home. When I said earlier that this law was against you, I know your intention, you asked 7% of the total income and income, and according to the Budgetary System Act, it refers to tax revenues. But, as you suggested, extremely in the Vojvodina case, that only applies to non-tax revenues, that is the amount of 136 billion and 400 million dinars. There's this difference of nine billion. You didn't include both parts. If this law were applied the way you suggested it, you would get nine billion and not 60 and something, how do you look for it with this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of time, I really want to say in the end that none, but in letters, but no anti-constitutional jurisdiction must survive in our legal system. We ask the Vojvodina Assembly to change the Statute of Vojvodina, to emulate it, to discuss here the Law on the Jurisdictions of the AP Vojvodina and finally remove certain conflicts, disagreements and everything else. The issue of Vojvodina, Srema, Banat and Backa was resolved in 1918 and that will not change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4939	Mr. Istvan Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4940	Mr. Petkovic, I didn't come here to accuse, nor did I accuse. But that's why you're doing it now in your discussion compared to me. I want this opportunity to say that I wasn't Brussels to ask anyone to put pressure on Serbia. I want to tell you, no matter what you may be surprised, I see this country as my country. Also, I want to tell you that I didn't ask at all to carry out the strengthening of surveillance. And if you've read it somewhere, then I think it's all mistranslated. What I must say, on the other hand, is that my request was aimed at asking that when the European Commission, the European Parliament, takes care of how what is written in the Constitution is realised in relation to Vojvodina's autonomy. So I didn't ask for anything but what the Constitution says today. I don't see the problem. I don't see a lack of patriotism in that. I don't see any evil in that. You're saying it's an internal political issue and I agree, but if it's viewed from the point of view of subsidiarity, if it's viewed from the aspect of the principle of rule of law, then it's only a partially internal political issue, and on the other hand, it's a valuable question, and in such a discussion, I think there's room for reference.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4941	Thank you. Mr. Petkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4942	Mr. Pastor, if you understand that I'm accusing you of lack of patriotism, I can tell you right now that you have misunderstood. I'm just saying that the place to solve problems, all the problems in the Republic of Serbia, and the issue of Vojvodina, is this very home and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If the ruling majority in the last term hadn't passed the Law on the transfer of powers of the AP Vojvodina as proposed, but had she listened and accepted our amendments, this would not have been the problem, we would not have dealt with it today. That's why we submitted the initiative to the Constitutional Court, which is why this initiative has been confirmed that we were right, which is why we have submitted a new bill, and it just needs to be applied here and adopted here. That is why we ask Mr Dinkic to tell us what is the amount in the 7% budget. Neither you nor I will deal with it. There's a competent committee to deal with, is that total income and expenditure, is that just tax revenues? During our government, you had 7% of the total tax revenues as foreseen by the Budgetary System Act. We did not play and include non-financial assets or other revenues in the budget, and that was 7% and we insist, and we fully agree that this amount be transferred to the AP. When we know that, or hear it from the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, which is the amount, I say in the government's explanation, it's quite wrapped up, so written, that it turns out that it's anti-constitutional, that non-financial assets can't be estimated correctly, it can't be estimated height and its amount, it can't be an argument. But that's what we're going to ask Mr. Dinkic how much tomorrow, during the budget debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4943	Thank you. National MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4944	Ladies and gentlemen, debates with a well-known outcome are common, especially in plenary sessions, and the most commonly known outcome is that most will be found by putting the agenda on the table which will accept the bill. The amendmental majority, of course, have different amendments and different opinions, so it happens that during the debate some amendment is accepted. Since it was mentioned here that we are having a debate with a known outcome, I consider it a courtesy to remember the president of the Parliament of Dragan Marsican from the spring session of 2001 which began the procedure of putting the draft law of opposition MPs on the agenda, so we also discussed two laws, one which was submitted by SRS MP Lazar Marjanski on the protection against wild cheese and the declaration of a wild Syrian disaster, and the other by the law on youth who submitted the MP Branislav Ivkovic, then from the SPS. Then we all knew the outcome, but it was still being debated. I want to share Mr. Pastor's conviction that this debate is still with an unknown outcome. Why would I want to share that belief? Because, by collecting all the discussions, all the exhibitions that we've had so far had the opportunity to hear, and fortunately they'll all be in the stenograms, let's be embarrassing, but that's why the stenographers and there are, are less – more so, so the proposal is great. What the Vojvodina Assembly has proposed is an excellent proposal, according to the Constitution, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said, and no one here has made it clear that the essence of the member of that one returning to the Constitution, the Law on the Budgetary System, which was amended on 28 September, has practically become unconstitutional, except that there is an internal conflict, insufficiently amended members, because no one here argues, that the proposal is good, but we will not vote for it, some of us, and some of us do. It is really necessary to record in this debate as something that gives the seeds of doubt that the outcome is not known after all. It would be very good for this home and believe, it would be very good for the ruling coalition, if the proposal submitted by the AP Vojvodina Assembly had been accepted. Of these, there are no political points neither the Vojvodina Assembly nor the opposition, and the ruling majority benefits. Whether we're going to stay on the story of a wild cheese or we're going to take seriously serious people when they want to do good for the future of the society they're managing, then they're doing exactly as the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly did and fortunately, the president of the Serbian Parliament, and I'm just saying that because I think it's necessary to mention that he put these two laws of opposition MPs on the agenda, as much as they know the outcome, and there were others. The interestingness of this debate, except that it is very good that it will be part of the stenogram, I hope, has been read and it is shown that, when Vojvodina is the subject, it is very easy to turn away from what exactly is the subject of Vojvodina, and in this case is a request for the application of the Constitution, a request for the respect of one member of the Constitution, a request for 7%, of revenue from the budget and a request for the removal of unconstitutional provisions and the Budget System Act. However, it has rarely been a subject of many of us in our discussions, often being a participant and a witness to the talks on Vojvodina, astonishing still the ease with which many and not understanding and not understanding, the insults of the people of Vojvodina, the incomprehensible ease of the qualifications, the disqualification, the attitude that you are something that is a threat, territorial integrity or already some ideas in Serbia, just because you live in Vojvodina and what you think should be a river, you think that order is good, and when we are alone, we stand in line, because we think it's a good order, and Vojvodina is a democratic question. Vojvodina is not a minority issue, it is not a territorial issue, Vojvodina is a democratic issue, and the topic of our debate is constitutional and legal issue. I can only hope that we haven't forgotten and that the Committee on Budgets and Finance adopted the government's amendment this morning on additional money, not changing the amount under this budget system law, or possibly with a known outcome if we vote on a new one. How can that fit in, add nine billion? An amendment to the government without adding anything to what is the constitutional obligation of the government. I beg the ruling coalition, all of us for our sake, but primarily for your sake, accept the law that Mr. Pastor has successfully defended in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4945	The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4946	Dear Chairman, Mr. President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, welcome to the House of the National Assembly, the Secretary of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, colleagues and knees of MPs, we have before us the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Budgetary System. Vojvodina as a region has special specificities that differ from other parts of Serbia. I am an MP who comes from eastern Serbia and is also living in a multinational community and I support a law like this, and I think other regions in Serbia need something like this. We cannot declare ourselves to regionalise Serbia, where we have won the elections, or where we have our mayors, but this principle should be seen democratically and Serbia should be decentralised in the right way, as many European countries have done. The AP Vojvodina extends to 21,500 square miles. In addition to Serbs, there live 25 national communities that make up about 35% of the Vojvodina population, which are divided into 45 municipalities and seven districts. The farmland affects 84% of its surface. In Vojvodina, there is a strong base industry that produces machines for working metals, electrical devices, cables, oil derivatives, food industries. In Vojvodina there is a very developed school system, along with preschools there are 539 primary schools, 110 secondary schools, a newly-sedal university with 13 universities. Vojvodina has over two million inhabitants, one quarter of the population of the Republic of Serbia. This law, proposed by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, is based on the decisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in particular Article 184. The constitution where the AP Vojvodina budget has been found to be at least 7% compared to the Republic of Serbia's budget, with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures. Whether the 7% is small or much, it is precise by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is what the citizens of Vojvodina need, and this is an example of how to work in other regions and districts in Serbia. This one member of the law to be amended, Article 5. The budget system law in paragraph 4 after the point is added to the title – especially in the case of the AP Vojvodina budget, its amount will be determined by applying it as a basis for income and income from the sale of non-financial assets. I think that the Republic of Serbia, through its organs, through the DRI, has the right to control the institutions of the AP Vojvodina, but has no right to take back to the citizens of Vojvodina what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has prescribed and what follows them. I am taking this opportunity to invite all MPs to support this law, because this is further progress of Serbia's democratisation, because it is another step in the process of European integration and that is something that the state of Serbia needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4947	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4948	First, I would like, like many before me, to wish the warmest welcome to Mr Pastor, President of the Vojvodina Assembly, and of course, to commend this move and to commend the beginning, hopefully, of a new time in co-operation between the Serbian state and its structures at the province level that will bring well-being to all citizens living in the AP Vojvodina. But the very reason why we're gathered here today is because, on one side of the government, it's done this as quickly as possible, it's got this agenda point in place where it doesn't belong. On the third hand, if you will, we already have it seems to me, unfortunately, a clear situation that this proposal from the Vojvodina Assembly will not go away and that we have, I think, a very negative development of the situation ahead of us. Many of my previous colleagues spoke of the importance of the AP Vojvodina, of what has been done since 2000 until today, how much citizenship in our northern province has felt the benefits of developing its autonomy, from its ingenuity. I wouldn't have anything to add to that, but in other words, citizens in the election are taking their own court. Some parties that are now doing everything to take away and take away 9.6 billion dinars, cannot pass the test of the citizens of Vojvodina, and I'm afraid it will remain as far as Vojvodina is concerned, as an inseparable part of the Republic of Serbia. I have to say that a few senseless things have been launched here, I'd say false, thesis that tries to explain the need that this bill shows. Someone's responsible for creating a political crisis. As it is said, the real intention is to protect the Provincial Government, the "Vojvodine Development Bank", etc. I must say, this issue is far more serious than any of our party, political differences. I'd like to ask the chairman that if he can, please intervene. I think it is incorrect, that in this high home, the issue of duchy autonomy is brought under question, if I may say so, that this debate is used for such a thing, that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is put under question, that by refusing to separate 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the Republic of Serbia's Constitution is being violated, we have heard that from many of my predecessors. But what we haven't heard is how it's possible that in this country when it calls for the purest possible form of reading, the clearest form of the Constitution that we've all voted for, and when through this reading it appeals to all MPs to support this proposal and that Vojvodina gets what the Constitution has defined, that this suddenly turns into a cover of the rural government, that it turns into things that the Provincial Government allegedly wants to challenge the political crisis. The political crisis is causing the Republic Government, which rejects the Constitution based on a request from the province, to grant it funds, it has created this crisis largely for political, party reasons, because it wants to punish the province's leadership, and that's true. What is going to happen because of this is what we do not like and we want these things, which unfortunately the Republic of Serbia has done too often in its past, to avoid. That is why it is very important that the citizens of Vojvodina who will watch this know which parties, which MPs from the province of Vojvodina voted against the Constitution based on the request of the AP Vojvodina, its Assembly, and that they know who their neighbours and parties operating in the province of Vojvodina are, have their own provincial committees, and some are in favour of abolishing these same autonomy and have rural committees. To know in future that they never give their support in any place, such as less – more and now the case, not for party reasons, but that means that these people are not in contact with the reality that exists in Vojvodina. The question of the autonomy of the province of Vojvodina is no gift of Tito, and no one here will explain the duchy autonomy that lasted 15 or 18 years. My ancestors, among other things, who I am very proud of have fought for this autonomy within Hungary, not Austria, as someone here is the river. Why did we fight? For some other reasons, but the victory that lasted very short, 12 years to be precise has shown people how local affairs are run in the interest of local communities. This legacy has helped us to understand better the state we live in and love, which is the state of Serbia. Now, think about it. Parties pushing for regionalisation reportedly show that the AP Vojvodina sees the same as any region in the future in the Republic of Serbia. This shows that they never understood this Vojvodina, which means that it is also normal that they do not have any MPs in the circuit assembly, it is no wonder. Don't wonder why you're going through this later. The people of Vojvodina, according to all the surveys, more than 70% of the population live primarily, no secession is considered, nor will it come to mind, but more than 70% of the people of Vojvodina want Vojvodina's autonomy. Therefore, this should also be considered by these dear colleagues, that this is not a question of parties, this is not a question of political differences, this is a question of one – the Constitution and two – the interests of the people of Vojvodina, which you represent, thanks to our radically proportional electoral system. So I have to underline it, that we have a very clean situation ahead of us, much cleaner than the budget that's coming to us tomorrow. This is just a matter of whether or not you want to apply the Constitution? Will you or won't you? It's clear to me that the SNS probably doesn't understand what's going on and what's going to happen. I regret once again that one important state and constitutional issue is being transferred to the party level. I'm sorry you can't see that the citizens of the Vojvodina see what you're trying to do with this. I'm also sorry to have to tell you from this pay phone that the DS, who lost the election, as you say, received 240,000 votes more than you at the bar. Not the adoption of this proposal by the Vojvodina Assembly, be sure, will further identify these trends, not because it is decided by the parties, but by citizens who are directly 9.6 billion dinars coming out of the possibility of their development, and you have no argument to do so. As for the dubiosis of the province's government, as someone said, and the question of "Developmental banks", as the honourable MP once again said, these are things that are very clearly pictured both to the public and to the competent state authorities and if you want the investigative authorities, and are re-tensely changing the more difficult issues of "Metals Bank" and "Vojvodine Development Bank". But what's worse, you can't possibly, dear colleagues, realize that neither the finance minister nor anyone else, with all due respect, ranks banks in this country, that in this country he talks about who's good, who's not good, who's failed, who has a dubiosis, etc. It's not their business. They create, indeed, deep financial instability in this country. I'm sorry that when we talk about something this clean and clear here, you still have a party passion in you. You still have to yell from your place when someone tells you something like this. It keeps repeating in our communication. Try and talk to me, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4949	Please, Mr. Stefanovic, don't speak to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4950	I'm sorry. I apologize when I'm wrong, unlike them. What I end up with is one, it seems to me, a very clear, easy step for the ruling majority, which, on the one hand, will show concern for all parts of the Republic of Serbia and its northern province, which will show concern for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which will show concern for every citizen of the AP, who lives in the AP Vojvodina, regardless of racial, national and party membership and the choice to bring all of this down by voting against this proposal, because the republican government has already pleaded against, but then be sure and bear the political consequences, gentlemen, which many others, who will very negatively touch, will be against what you have done so far, and we will make them very effective after 25th even more effective of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4951	Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4952	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with all due respect to the previous speaker, whom I greatly appreciate as a colleague, I must say something. You know, we've won more votes at the bar, but somehow it looks like someone loses a game, so he says, you know, we've had more chances, we've kept the ball in our feet, but unfortunately for us, fortunately, Serbian citizens, we remember the final slow, the final result is remembered, and that final result is shown on May 20th. As far as political responsibility is concerned, I agree. We are absolutely aware of the move and all that is why we will not vote on this bill. One of the reasons I'm going to say now, and I'm going to say more specifically later, is that there are really no guarantees that these 9.6 billion dinars will end up where they should, where we've seen them missing in the papers -- for 40 and some homes of culture, for 20 schools, for 1,500km of plumbing, and I don't know how many sewerage networks, will end up there, where necessary, with Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina or will end up bypassing the "Vojvodine Development Bank" again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4953	Thank you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4954	First, the game is played on more ground. I mentioned only one in the context of the citizens' interest, first of all, but if you will, the consequences and the ones that make this decision easily. I don't know where you saw our sorry for anything? I've answered to your party president more than once here that you and I will not see any regrets. We're aware of what wasn't right. That's what we publicly admitted and said here in the Assembly. Be assured that some new times come in that sense and certainly there will be herbs for both citizens and for this assembly, but also for the very party that I represent at this point in time I speak. As far as this second thesis is concerned, Mr. Babiæ, an esteemed colleague, or you consider the Assembly of the province to be a gathering of minors, who have no business capacity, or do not feel that you should give funds to those to whom the Constitution and the law have allowed it until they are the same from your party. Or should I add another thesis, perhaps you suspect that the circuit administration would spend funds on home health, which is legitimate, and then I can say what will be spent on if you do so? Maybe to buy new committees for a new transfer of a new majority to a new municipality? I mean, it's ground floor, it's inadequate, it doesn't describe the real situation. My example has shown how far we can go, but it won't lead us anywhere essentially in this debate, but the point is that we have a constitutionally defined obligation. They're defined that way, because they're constitutionalists, and the DSS defenders always remind us of that. So we have a very clean, clear situation -- either support what the Constitution said or don't say, and then tell why you won't, that the citizens see it, that they hear it, especially those who live in Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4955	Thank you. (Jovan Palalic, from the place: Replica. I don't see the basis. (Jovan Palalic, from the place: The party is mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4956	Replica, he called the DSS. It is true that we are the constitutional defenders and it is true that we insist that the Constitution is respected, even in this case concerning the obligation to secure the AP of the Republic of Serbia 7%. It was never a dispute when it came to the DSS. But here the story has now developed that the Constitution is sacred from those who have repeatedly violated the previous years. So, when we're not in power, then it's everybody's fault that we're not providing 7%, and while we were in power, we weren't providing that 7%? Gentlemen, be consistent with the view that the Constitution should be respected. Not to repeat now the story of the Constitutional Court's decision and the qualifications that the Constitutional Court applied the Constitution on the basis of the DSS initiative. Therefore, you said it very pesoriously, but we are proud that in every occasion, even in this, we insist on respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as we insisted when it came to the law and the unconstitutional Statute of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4957	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4958	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honourable fellow Members of the People, I must begin to share the satisfaction that we have today to consider a bill of law, or a proposal to amend and supplement the law that comes from the Vojvodina Assembly. Only by strengthening institutions and working through institutions in our country can we really get to the rule of law. This is the right way, and in any case, this way of communication should be welcomed. What is evident from today's debate is that the amendment of the Law on the Budgetary System, which came from the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, is firstly both legitimate and in accordance with the Constitution. That's not at all controversial. What is before us today is a gesture of the province's assembly in the interest of the citizens of Vojvodina, and in no way goes to harm other citizens in the Republic of Serbia. I would specifically say a few things, and I would remind myself that, when the amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act were on the agenda of September, I had an amendment precisely to the disputed member to whom the proposal from the AP Vojvodina Assembly came today to change. It was clear then that most MPs, regardless of the outcome of the vote, that in this case directly, by amending the Law in the budgetary system at the last session two months ago, violated a constitutional provision that included an AP Vojvodina of 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The question is whether the budget of the Republic of Serbia is at all questionable, given that the same law on the budgetary system in its Article 2 defines what the budget is, in fact, so that we no longer have the dilemma. What the dilemma is about is whether what is set by the Constitution and what is said by the same law is a budget, we want to apply it consistently or we want to make differences to certain institutions and levels of government. Here is more of a will to reduce the base than there actually is in the Constitution and in the law. All arguments that the change proposed by the Government of the Budgetary System Act is a clearer and more precise basis for achieving revenue for the AP Vojvodina are in fact incorrect. Simply, it is not true when the Assembly says that the base is tax revenue, because the base was not set as tax revenue, but as expenditures that appear to be tax revenues. If we know that we have both expenditure and expenditure in the budget, and that expenditure and expenditure in the budget are complex in a series behind each other, without indicating from which types of revenue these expenditures are financed, then we can clearly see that we can only actually believe in the word of the Ministry of Finance what is actually the basis for determining the budget of the AP Vojvodina. What's very important is that the AP Vojvodina issue is resolved in the most impoverished way, which is also to pass a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. We're expecting him as soon as possible. If the AP has determined, according to what the President of the Assembly Mr. Pastor has informed us, his part of the task force, because the agreement was such, then we expect as soon as possible, it does not take a great deal of time and it is not a matter of priority, because then really the citizens of Vojvodina can ask the question – are they so much out of any priority in this government, if there is no time to determine a few members of the working group who could competently work on the law that needs to solve the financing of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4959	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4960	I have in my hands the exposés of Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, in which he said on page 14 that the Serbian government has no reason for a different policy towards Vojvodina because the autonomy of Vojvodina is in Serbia and not against Serbia, and that there is no need to expect a threat to the autonomy of the AP Vojvodina. Autonomy is the jurisdiction entrusted with the Constitution and the law of the AP Vojvodina, which it can only carry out if it has money for it. This money and decision on this money today, by accepting or rejecting this law, we are the Members of the People. This isn't just a budget issue here and it's not a question of citizens and citizens of the AP Vojvodina. This issue also concerns the citizens of Užica, Šapca, Sokobanje and Leskovec, Prokupije and Belgrade, because it represents the finishes, I would say, the only successful process that this government has started, which is to emulate local authorities everywhere in Serbia with the interests of powerful people sitting in this government. By subtracting money from the AP Vojvodina, you aim to disenfranchise the concept of Vojvodina's autonomy, because a province that has no money to service the needs of citizens who voted for its institutions is at stake. In Vojvodina, it is impossible to do what you do throughout Serbia, to threaten, to pressure, to bribe people because of the electoral system and because for 12 years, citizens and citizens of Vojvodina have said "no" to your policies. For money that the Republic, these 9.6 billion dinars, needs to be transferred to the AP Vojvodina, dozens of schools, 1,600km of plumbing, 800km of sewage network can be built. Vojvodina is Serbia's European initiative, it was also in the 19th century when in my Vrsac, the Germans and Serbs agreed to build a common municipality and get the status of a free city, trade and develop together. It is still today because it has six official languages that make it unique in Europe. It is Serbia's European initiative because it first began to deal with gender equality as early as 2001. It is Serbia's European initiative because it had the first in Serbia to have an institution of the Manchester, the Citizens' Protector. It is the first and most widely used IPA funds in the EU. By taking away this money, this 9.6 billion, it will be of no use, and neither will you. If we do not vote for this decision today, or if the ruling majority MPs do not vote for this decision, they will show that they support a government that does not respect the Constitution, a government that does not respect the democratic will of citizens, because this democratic will of citizens wants to suspend by force. As a fellow MP, I urge you to honor your voice when this government has formed, voting for the exposés of the prime minister in which he has pledged that the autonomy of Vojvodina and its Constitution guaranteeed rights will not be reduced and will not be compromised. There are more than daily political interests. These are both our biographies and what we do here remains written down. There's your word. Through your voice, perhaps the Prime Minister can tell the lie when it comes to the autonomy of the Vojvodina. Perhaps Mr. Dinkic can be angry with Vojvodina who can't cross the census. Perhaps you can be angry with the Vojvodina, even where you were third, taking the mayor's seats, just like in Novi Sad. But citizens and citizens of the Vojvodina of all nationalities, of all ages, of all political determinations have the right to continue all those projects that make it possible for both DS and SVM and LSV and all others who make up the province government for so long to form the province government. You're not gonna hurt any of us, you're gonna hurt yourself. A fellow SNS officer said we'd wake up. It seems to me that you fell asleep in a dream of a political honeymoon. Serbia is waiting for everything you have spoken. You don't do that. You're just preventing those who in the Serbian elections have won that promises they've been given to implement. It'll come to you whenever the election's over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4961	Jelena Travar Miljevic, on what grounds? (Jelena Travar Miljevic: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4962	My colleagues, I guess I have some things I have to do from today. It's sad that... (The Democratic Party's emissaries win out loud: On what basis? I'm sorry. Could you calm your colleagues down?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4963	Please don't talk to your colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4964	I'd just like to mention some things I already said today. In 2011, Vojvodina had for the first time lower GDP per capita than the republican average. At the head of the Vojvodina, or government of Vojvodina, are certain people for eight years. I don't believe this is just the fault of the current government, and it's absolutely not just the government that is now. On the other hand, I don't know why we are always talking today about the non-compliance of the Constitution, and several times people who have publicly said they will support this proposal have indicated that Vojvodina was damaged by 740m euros in previous years. I ask a question and all this starts to seem a little hypocritical to me by some of my colleagues when they're discussing it this way. Without wanting to talk any further this way, please let us be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4965	Thank you. The word has Srdjan Mikovic. Let me tell you, your party's time is eight minutes away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4966	I'd like to report first on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I have two minutes' rights, and I don't think you're counting that time on me at the time of the parliamentary group. It's about Article 104. - if the MP, in his presentation at the National Assembly session, is offended about the MP, who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and last name and function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. Article 2 - if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the right to reply shall be given by the president of the parliamentary group, not by the authorised person, not by the authorised representative, but by the president of the parliamentary group. At least that's what it says in the Rules of Procedure. If we're going to interpret it another way, that's fine, but then we can agree here by consensus on the tide. In that sense, I believe that there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, by giving the right to replicate someone who is not the president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4967	We can interpret whatever we want, but it was a practice for an authorised representative to have all the rights of the head of the parliamentary group, the party, the club. So I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, if you like, a regular discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4968	I want to discuss and present a few facts that need to be a practical decision on the bill itself. The fact is that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina has proposed a law that should contribute to strict respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 184(4) states explicitly -- the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures. What's the budget? When we look at the revenue side, okay. When we look at the split side, okay. It may make sense to look at either one or the other, but we can't look at the budget less, either than the income, or on the cost side. In this regard, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina gave the bill to establish its amount, i.e. its height, by applying as the basis of income and income from the sale of non-financial assets to the AP Vojvodina budget. I could have been in a dilemma by this morning whether this was in accordance with or not with the Constitution and the legal system, but when, above all, the Government of the Republic of Serbia gave its statement, undisputed constitutionality of the bill itself, it was clear that the government had given it as a right, practically, that it was in accordance with the Constitution. True, the government asks MPs and proposes to the National Assembly not to accept the bill in principle, but the constitutionality of the bill is not disputed. So, the Vojvodina Assembly correctly interprets Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I am particularly happy that my fellow MPs, within the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, unanimously supported that the bill proposed by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina was absolutely in agreement with the Constitution. There's no dilemma. So it's just voting day that we're voting for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4969	Thank you. The People's Messenger Sinisha Lazic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4970	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would still like to look back on the consequences of such a legislative proposal and what this specifically means for local self-government in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. We can't put things back. Simply, some processes in terms of funding projects under the AP Vojvodina have been launched and these processes are ongoing. If by this decision we reduce this budget, we come into a situation that we cannot bring some projects to an end and that literally those debts that exist in the contractors are being poured into the budgets of local self-government, and the processes of financial decentralisation of what was happening in the previous period, we will come into a situation to jeopardize the functioning of local self-government, and they will have to, in various court processes, resupply debts to the contractors who have done these works. I believe that we must go to the decisions that life dictates, not the decisions that are due to our political bickering here or the procedure. Simply, you have processes, where local self-government through the Capital Investment Fund has realised certain projects concerning the construction of heat, roads, kindergartens, the restoration of various cultural institutions, health homes, etc. And these processes are at some level. If we deny that money in the budget of the Capital Investment Fund, we come into a situation where it cannot be paid, the contractors sue local self-government, and then we come into a situation, or we put the performers into blockades, disqualify them to participate in some of the following projects where they employ a number of workers, and on the other hand, we still prevent local self-governments from doing their own law of entrusted jobs. This is one problem that needs to be seen with multiple aspects. This is not just a political decision that we define ourselves to reduce some of the funds allocated to the AP Vojvodina. You must also be aware that in the processes that were in the previous period on the maintenance of road infrastructure, you have reverse processes on Serbia's territory, on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The process is that you have about 70% of the travel network declared a road network of national importance and is financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and in Vojvodina the process is reversed. You've got about 70% of the travel network that's being maintained from the local budget. We come into a situation where we won't be able to realize such processes and have safe paths where we all participate in their exploitation. A law like this deserves, first of all, an exact analysis of data, defining priorities, creating a single cross section, and then on that basis we can engage in a measure of legal-formal reasons. Simply, these are life decisions and I don't think it's just a matter of procedural respect for constitutional norms and categories, but it's a process that can't be preserved, because the construction season and the budget year lasts for a year, and neither do investment ever end, nor begin with. I think a procedure like this should really be respected, maybe put some things out of effect, do an analysis, find the means to bring these processes to an end. If there's any doubt that some of the funds are being misused, there's a DRI, everything is subject to control, everyone can answer for those things that he may have done, potentially, uncannyly, there's no reason for us to set things up according to a political elite that performs a function, but from the aspect of the institutions that exist in this country. I think that this is a reasonable proposal and that anyone who is responsible for his population and all parts of Serbia's territory equally needs to respect these arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4971	The word has the People's MP Elmir Elfic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4972	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, as a number of MPs have done during today's harvest, will also express my satisfaction that it has even come through the initiative of the president of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, so that today's agenda can find a draft law supplementing the Law on the budgetary system. The Honorable Mr. Pastor has set out to see this issue as a constitutional and legal issue, as a question of decentralisation or as a budgetary-financial issue, and then he left out that this is a political issue and that it is a political problem. From this political issue, literally, we come here in a situation where we face constitutional and legal problems and validity. Also, the issue of fundamental decentralisation is collapsing, as is the budgetary-financial problem that will arise in the AP Vojvodina, in the coming year, unless the bill is passed. What it is is an essential thing, which is that the citizens of the Vojvodina get their right that the Constitution and Article 184 belong to them. I would not agree with Mr. Pastor that today he can leave this assembly satisfied, because this issue has been discussed, because the only thing that can cause satisfaction is respect for the Constitution and obtaining those funds returning to the AP Vojvodina from the inflows arriving in Belgrade. Someone was talking about the need to establish stronger control and control over spending in the AP Vojvodina in order to avoid the problem of centralisation in decentralisation frameworks, which is one of the biggest problems of decentralisation, so that in micro-region, sufficient resources can be administered to ensure balanced regional development. Especially where national communities live in Vojvodina. We've heard a lot of information and reasons why this law should be supported. However, we missed an important detail in which the Dukean Finance Secretary said that a hole of about ten billion dinars in the budget would literally create a lack of capital investment under the current budget proposal for next year. He also said that 66% of the transfer funds from the republic's budget will come from the province's budget to finance salaries in education and health. This means that unless we vote this bill, unless the Assembly respects the Constitution, it will bring the AP Vojvodina and its government into unconstitutional action, which is three weeks of capital expenditure financing. I can't accept playing with defining what the budget is and what that budget means. If someone wanted to play with the concepts, I think it would be easier to play with the notion of at least 7% of the budget, so that this "at least", in terms of superlatives, and this less, we interpret that Vojvodina should get as little as 7%. Somehow, it would be more acceptable for me than for the budget to involve the total resources being poured into the register of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I mean, I will uphold this law. I think this is a matter of democratic principle, a matter of moral principle, but also of principled respect for the constitutional provision that is clearly defined in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4973	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the circuit assembly, I am pleased that issues related to Vojvodina are being discussed in the institutions, although I think that should have been discussed much earlier. For the first time, that is, the adoption of the budget system law knows exactly what belongs to Vojvodina. We appreciate that the Prime Minister of Vojvodina dared to speak after six years, but we ask ourselves: why not show such courage for the past six years when DS was an absolute master not only in Vojvodina, but also in all Serbia. The Prime Minister of Vojvodina sat, kept quiet and took as much money as the Republic gave him. Why wasn't he this principled to the former Prime Minister and the finance minister? Why wasn't he fighting for the Duke's money then, but he was talking about how great things are in Vojvodina and how beautiful everything is? I come from Vojvodina and I'll tell you what the real situation is. A large number of Vojvodina municipalities are underdeveloped and belong to a third or fourth group by the development of municipalities. The reality is, for the first time in years, Vojvodina has a GDP below the republican average. The reality is that Vojvodina does not use money to develop infrastructure or develop agrarians, which is our great chance. The reality is that for a long time, Vojvodina has been managed by the same people and that they transfer responsibility to Belgrade. The reality is that the Vojvodina within itself is self-centralised. In Vojvodina, on the one hand, we have a bright and shiny Novi Sad, and on the other hand, we have heard it today, we have cities and villages, especially villages, which have no plumbing, which have no sewers, which have no paved roads and which have no quality drinking water. I'm from the Kovin municipality. There's a village called Bavanishte, which has seven thousand inhabitants. This village has no plumbing, no sewers. I could list a few more villages in the metal community that don't have sewers. Villages that don't have quality drinking water, because they don't have money for purveyors. It is a shame that there is no asphalt road in the municipality of Kovin up to two villages in Vojvodina in 2012. I looked at the website of the Capital Investment Fund, the so-called capital investment fund. top 20 projects. Of those 20, five are in Novi Sad. Let me tell you, I don't know how high-quality project street reconstruction or public lighting is in a town. Nevertheless, five projects are being implemented in Novi Sad. When you add these numbers, you'll see that it's an investment of about ten billion dinars. Five and a half billion are separate for projects in Novi Sad. For example, three, two billion are separate for the construction and equipment of the emergency center of the Vojvodina Clinical Centre. I agree that it is necessary and I agree that there should be such an institution in Novi Sad. However, if you come to a panic hospital, there you will find walls from which the malter, old, ancient furniture, decomposing mattresses, you will find moisture. Shouldn't a citizen of South Banat have the same conditions of treatment as those of New Sad? Most of the citizens of South Banat are being treated in that hospital. I think everyone should have equal access to health care. On my way to Novi Now, I've often encountered billboards where there was a commercial for the Vojvodina Clinical Center. He looks great, fantastic. I was wondering how much the billboards cost you? Is it for that money to be advertised, say, by the duchy government or for that money that something could be arranged at that hospital in Pancheva or for some home of health in a small place in Vojvodina to buy some missing treatment machine? What Vojvodina's gonna invest in, that's her business. The Vojvodina has its legitimate organs, its Parliament, the government that decides on it. A legitimate question arises – is this money spent on the well-being of all the citizens of Vojvodina? There is no adequate control of where funds have been spent either by those who transfer these funds to the Vojvodina or by the citizens. The reality is, unfortunately, that the money belonging to Vojvodina was used for games such as "Vojvodina Development Bank". We are witnessing that 300m euros have been spent in the capitalisation of Vojvodina Development Bank so far. I do wonder, as many citizens of Vojvodina, what could be done for this money? How many miles of sewerage, how many miles of water, roads? Where's that banana highway? Where's the tunnel through the Frusch Mountain? How many industrial zones could be built for these 300 million euros? The citizens of Kovin wonder why no investors come to Kovin? You know why he doesn't come? There's nowhere to come, because even those who appear come across plain ice. (President: Mrs. Novkovic, please return to the law. That's the darkness. I really wonder what money they've entered in Vojvodina, where they've been spent? I'll also ask the question of salary in the province administration. (Chairman: Please, you'll still have to listen to me. If I have asked you and estimated that you are not sticking to the agenda, although the issues you are talking about are very interesting and significant, I do not dispute it at all, but I ask you to go back to the law that solves the problem of financing the province. Here you go. ) The question is, will Vojvodina receive adequate funds and on what will the funds be spent on? So far, if you look at the province administration, you can wonder how much of this administration has increased? You may also wonder what the salary of a circuit secretary in the province government is? When you look, you will see that she is, I think, as much as 50% bigger than the Republic Minister. For the past four years, I have been a Member of Parliament of the Vojvodina. In those four years, we only had a report on the work of the Capital Investment Fund for the period from 2006 to 2009. We simply know that the Capital Investment Fund is financed from the very funds the law speaks of. I really want to know what the financial situation is now, how are priorities set, and how is money spent? I have to make another example that hit me hard. In 2011, when the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government was adopted, municipalities received substantial revenues in the last three months. Then what happened? The president of the province's government called on the presidents of municipalities and told them they had to pay out of these pairs of projects that were just realised by the Capital Investment Fund. The presidents of the municipalities had to sign the protocol, then return to their municipalities, persuaded the council to rebalance the budget and thus the poor municipalities without water, sewerage and roads paid the accounts of the Capital Investment Fund. The Kovin municipality gave 40 million dinars. The city of Panchevo, for example, gave 320 million dinars, and therefore today the budget of Panchev is in deficit. You know what the explanation was -- well, we have to give something to get the money back from them. What happened after that? Before the elections, the government president said Covin had received a decision on 300m dinars to build an industrial zone, that famous water pipeline in Bavanishte and sewerage in one street. Do you know what's left of it? Nothing, just painting and promises. Kovin didn't get a dinar from the Capital Investment Fund, he still doesn't have an industrial zone and he doesn't have a chance to develop. The issue of financing the Vojvodina needs to be resolved. According to us, we need to pass a law on the financing of Vojvodina, but we need to work on this together, because only by agreement and joint work can we come up with good solutions. I'm in the material I'm getting from Mr. Pastor, President of the Assembly, where MPs from Vojvodina are invited to support this law. I wish I'd gotten a letter like this much earlier, if we had been consulted when the law was being made, and I'd like to get a letter like this from the circuit assembly when we're making a law on the financing of the Vojvodina, and not in the end, when it's almost just to back it up. In the letter, we are called on to support the use of the landscape's resources in a way that will enable the launch of new production, better employment, building facilities for stay and education, but also for a more humane age, thus contributing to a more balanced development of Serbia as a whole. I'm absolutely up for this, but it won't be if we don't have adequate control of spending money. In that case, today this will be only one marketing transfer of responsibility to Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4975	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ljuban Panic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4976	I'm reporting under Article 106. Rules of Procedure, Paragraph 1. Mrs. Novkovic and I were colleagues for four years in the circuit assembly. For every proposal of the province government, whose vice president was Mr. Pastor, you voted. While we were sleeping there, what do you say, I don't know what you were doing? While we're in that dream, you may have enjoyed those high wages that you now have an objection to.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4977	Mr. Panic, you abuse the Rules of Procedure and if you continue to do so, I will give you a warning. On what basis are you answering, Miss Alexandra? (Alexandra Jerkov, from town: Article 104) The word is Alexander Jerkov, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4978	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The previous speaker spoke with disrespect about the decisions of the Vojvodina Assembly that my party supported. The lady called the decisions of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina Games around the National Bank. This is not the first time we have talked about the AP Vojvodina Assembly in this way, and this comes from a party that invests in political adventure, whose president is making a new JAT in 2012, which promises thousands of euros in free action and which invests hundreds of thousands of euros in subsidising some future jobs. If you allow, I can't understand how anyone whose president covers such financial risks can talk about games, that the gamers of decisions made by the AP Vojvodina Assembly, and in particular I don't want to comment on the money spent on billboards and political campaigns, given that the URS are known for being thrifty when it comes to political campaigns and that their pre-election campaigns will enter Serbia's annals as extremely cheap and extremely thrifty and that these coins really could not be re-routed in Serbia, but rather in the pre-election campaign of the URS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4979	I must say, you have abused the Rules of Procedure, too. Just because you're a lady, I didn't warn you. The word is Mr. Borislav Stefanovic's injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4980	I'm reporting under Article 107. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure in Rule 107 was injured because dignity was injured in a way to talk about the functioner, i.e. a person, i.e. A person who isn't present. Namely, the Prime Minister of Vojvodina has been mentioned in a very negative context, that it is a man who, I quote, "awakened after six years of inaction on a particular issue", in this case 7% belonging to the Constitution. I must say, in that sense, that it is not correct, for one thing, to speak of a person who is not present, so he cannot defend himself, it seems to me as an MP, and two, if the MP already represents such a position, which is a legitimate political stance, then he should explain that perhaps because we spent all the funds in the previous period by creating a deficit that Mr Dinkic caused. If you're already saying things like that, I'm sorry that I have to...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4981	Mr. Stefanovic, please do not abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4982	Let me just finish my sentence. I didn't take offense to anyone, so I just want to finish my sentence. That if things like this are already being brought out and the honourable MP is saying that a plumbing or sewerage should be built in Bavanica and they need all these things that she wonderfully listed as being made in Vojvodina, and then she says don't vote for this law to give the Vojvodina funds. Please, make a deal with yourself and don't just make those singing bakeries of yours on those billboards you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4983	Thank you. Anna Novkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4984	Since I was mentioned, I have been actively involved in the work of the circuit assembly. I didn't vote for all the decisions, for example I didn't vote for the 2011 budget because I didn't think it was good, that's one thing. Then, I did not say that the decision of the circuit assembly or the government is a game. The game is how 300m euros were spent on the capitalisation of Vojvodina Development Bank, a place to invest in the missing infrastructure in Vojvodina, which is indeed regrettable. So, I'm talking about one person who is not present, and other colleagues today talk about Mladjan Dinkic, who is also not responsible for the deficit, because, as you know, Mladjan Dinkic was not the finance minister in 2006 and if you check the stenographic notes, you will see that I did not say that this law should not be supported. That I will fight for the people of Vojvodina, I will and will always fight for 300m euros not to be recapitalised by the "Vojvodine Development Bank" or any other failed bank, but that all citizens benefit from that money, because it is a shame that in this time of the 21st century we have villages without waterways, sewers and asphalt roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4985	Thank you. The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4986	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the province, I want for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, and, above all, the citizens of the AP Vojvodina to join in this debate. Whether my discussion will find its place in a stenogram or an embarrassment like someone said today, let the citizens who listen to this decide. So, 7% is that part of the revenue side of the real budget that belongs to the AP Vojvodina and there's no dilemma. At the very least, this is defined by Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and this member of the Constitution even determines that 3% of these 7% are foreseen for capital expenditures. So 7% of the real budget. Now in these conditions where distribution is carried out, there is a question of what is real. What about the deficit in the budget? He did not come from himself, he is a product of the overall duties of the Republic of Serbia, including the province of Vojvodina. After all these discussions today, an impression is created or someone is trying to create the impression that the citizens of Vojvodina are damaged because someone is denying them the right, the right by the Constitution guaranteed, that is to say, to take theirs and what belongs to them. Either way, it's not good. I'm afraid he's just trying to cover everything bad in Vojvodina, and done in the past decade. I continue my presentation with the question that the people of Vojvodina should ask on a daily basis to the province government, and the question is not where our money is, but who in Vojvodina has our money, how it does it, who it deals with and who it accounts for. I think there's been a lot of theatre and word games today, but I'm afraid it could be a game of fate for the citizens of Vojvodina as well as for the fate of all Serbian citizens. Today we heard what could be done if the Republic of Serbia gave Vojvodina the money it belonged to, so a simple mathematical method came up with a figure that really sounds nice, and how realistic that would be in these conditions would be a real question. One more thing that has been carried out today in the discussions of many MPs, which is that me and my fellow MPs coming from Vojvodina are representatives of the citizens of Vojvodina because we are elected there, but we are also members of the highest House, we are MPs of the Republic Assembly, and we are obliged to represent the interests of all citizens of Serbia, not to equate with empty promises to voters. That's why the warnings coming our way, and we've heard them many times, at least they sound unserious. I am also concerned that some MPs today are demonstrating famous rhetoric, ingested with strange pathetics, which I don't want to guess with. In the end, I want to believe that we all want to, but we really want the citizens of Vojvodina as all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to live well, and until that happens, let's let things be of interest to all seriously discussed, negotiated and decided but above all in accordance with the possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4987	As far as I can tell, Vladimir Ilic is not here. The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4988	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, after this long debate on the amendment of the AP Vojvodina to the draft law on the budgetary system and the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we heard a lot, and I think that now both MPs and citizens are very clear. In fact, all MPs, regardless of whether they are from Vojvodina, whether they are from the opposition, whether they are from the government or not, agreed that the Constitution must be respected and that 7% of the republican budget belongs to the AP Vojvodina. We agreed that the citizens of Vojvodina today live much worse than many years ago and that the municipalities are largely underdeveloped, no development, no construction, no work in Vojvodina. Those who live in Vojvodina know best the situation. Many still think of the second part of Serbia as living very well in Vojvodina and that it is an easy life, however it is not true. We also heard that the grotesque investment in Vojvodina, which was, was mostly in Novi Sad, and not the whole of Vojvodina's Novi Sad. I love Novi Sad, I have studied here, and children are studying and I want to continue investing and that Novi Sad is also the most beautiful city in Serbia, but many cities and smaller settlements in Vojvodina are being neglected and unbalanced. The Serbian Progressive Party is a serious party and we certainly insist on respecting the Constitution, namely that Vojvodina belongs to 7% of the budget and so it must be. The Autonomous Region of Vojvodina is a region in Serbia that has all the conditions to become Serbia's most developed region, a developed and economically strong region that needs to lead Serbia into the EU. In order for Vojvodina to move forward, large investments in agriculture, infrastructure, energy, industry are needed, as these are areas that drive the economy, contribute to employment growth. The big problem in Serbia, including Vojvodina, is not employment, and if the problem of high unemployment is solved, we have solved many other problems. Today, the AP Vojvodina is far from the developed region, the economy is destroyed, the population is getting poorer and more and more difficult to live in small settlements and small towns, which today have no perspective. Young people leave their parents, go to Belgrade, Novi Sad, and the villages remain nursing households. I fully agree with Mr. Pastor that the northern Banat today is the most underdeveloped part of Vojvodina, as well as a large part of the Central Banat, the Serbian nigger, the Zitiste, Novi Becej etc. Kikinda drinks the worst water in Vojvodina. We've got very bad roads. For many years back, there has been a large number of unemployed, and what we lack, which we do not have, are capital investments that would increase the number of employees. The question is, who is to blame for this situation in Vojvodina? Of course, it was the one who could prevent the robbery of privatisation, corruption and the destruction of Vojvodina, which are the last 12 years, the former regime in the Republic, and above all in the AP Vojvodina. The circuit government has proved to be one bad host, a very bad host. According to some municipalities, the circuit government acted as a mother and some as a stepmother. A selective and unbalanced investment has been made in some of the municipalities of Vojvodina. Vojvodina, as I said, isn't just Novi Sad, where it was invested, Vojvodina is Kikinda, Choka, Senta, Ninja, New Vienna, which can't boast of investments that would lead to employment. Did the previous regime respect those 7% of the republican budget? It's not. Now they teach the lesson that it is necessary to respect and it is, because the Constitution provides for it. The same parties have acted, so for the past 12 years, both the republican and the provinceal authorities, and that is a question for the former regime, which is why 7% of the republican budget belonging to Vojvodina is not respected. Whether the current government respects the Constitution, it is not a question of whether or not it will, it is the government's obligation and we will try to achieve it. Our goal is to restart the economy in Vojvodina and make Vojvodina a engine of development throughout Serbia, and this will happen when municipalities in the province and the province government act as hosts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4989	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4990	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, it is a great pleasure to finally, but I must say thanks to you personally, Mr. Pastor, we can talk here today about a legal proposal coming from the Vojvodina Assembly. You will realize that this is on the one hand a compliment to you personally, and on the other hand, of course, criticism, because, as you know, I am still in 2004, all the legal proposals that have come, were found from the AP Vojvodina, passed on to the Vojvodina Assembly with a request, that the Assembly declares which legislative proposals remain in the procedure and which it does not. In the course of the assembly, the Vojvodina Assembly did not declare itself and was unable to present any legal proposal at the National Assembly session. In the next period, I heard this today, in the next two calls and I am truly shocked, there was an insult to both the citizens of Vojvodina and their assembly, that when the Statute of the AP Vojvodina was discussed in the National Assembly, at all as a promoter, I found out today, the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly was not invited. Why am I saying this? Because in the background of all the discussions that were going on today, I apologize to you, but I suppose that in the Vojvodina Assembly too, it's kind of like a political category, so people today represent each other, tomorrow they argue, they drill into their breasts that they're going to vote for something they've been arguing about for four years, but well, it's an integral part, it's more important something else. More importantly, in all discussions we talked about the Constitution, and you saw that here they advocated respect for the Constitution, even those MPs who had before, before the adoption of the Constitution managed to advocate, that the Constitution should be brought with 126 votes of MPs, even without a referendum. They boasted today that they had not voted for the Constitution, and if they had voted by chance, your party had voted and I respect that, if they had voted by chance, they would not have allowed, they say, that such a provision would have entered the Constitution without being respected. As you know, over the past years, it's not respected, but I owe you one notice myself. Your party, under the circumstances, wasn't the parliamentary party I'm talking about. As you know, at the beginning of that call, part of the People's MPs, no government has proposed a law, this law has been passed, and under this law it will never happen again that the SVM will not be presented in this assembly, as this will not happen to any party of the great, national minority in Serbia. That's fixed. When the Constitution was adopted, I am therefore saying, I am giving you a notice because by the circumstances your party was not parliamentary at the time, and you know that I did not vote in favour of the Constitution proposal, one of the authors of the text of two members, none of them concerned this issue, were for me, in this additional discussion which was led by the Government and representatives of different political stakeholders, were controversial to me, and one was not clear. That one's a member we're discussing today. It was not clear to me why 7% is not listed, which is one sentence that is not typical of constitutions, but additionally in that same attitude defines how many seven of those 7% of them will go, and exactly, when I asked that question, I was told that there was a new Prime Minister, then it was called the Executive Greater AP, suspected that money would be easily spent in Vojvodina, as it happens in local self-governments, we saw now that there were transfers, that simply when it was not defined, that money on wages and administration would be easily spent, rather than capital investments, then a member who defined and how many parts of what goes into the budget was introduced. A great misunderstanding in the coming years was your party and MPs of your party and today who were in the previous meeting, sitting here, they have consistently advocated all these years that this member was being respected, but there was no question of whether income or total budget was being asked. I have to tell you why, seeing as how no one has told you. When the amendments to the final text of the Constitution have been made, on one copy is on the page on which this member is located, there are two paraphrases written below the amount of funds in that year and despite these calculations. One of the paraphrases of the then Prime Minister, it is Mr. Pajtic, I apologize for saying about him being absent, but I speak positively of him both as a representative of the opposition and as a representative of the position, is my experience, so his paraphras and the paraphras of the man who was the finance minister at the time. That man, too, hasn't affected, as you know, the financials for the next six years, now he's the finance minister again. Why is this important? During the press of the Constitution's proposal, someone in the National Assembly's building in King Milan copied that page, so I stopped the press, because the actual budget's calculations are also visible in that copy, what is that 7%, and at the same time the paraphrases of these two people are seen. Of course what was wrongly printed was destroyed, but don't worry, that copy is in my private archive. If he ever needs a Constitutional Court or anyone he's interested in, I'll put him on the stand. Why is this important? Well, that's the year in which the budget had surpluses, so, of course, those who put the parade were interested, above all, of course, fully legitimate representatives of Vojvodina, to separate as much money as possible from the revenue side, since, I say, it was a surplus, not by chance from the expenditure side. Of course, now that we have the same finance minister again, we know what the agreements were, but this is not crucial for the reason that you were run, I suppose, by the Vojvodina Assembly, that a law like this would suggest. Why? Because I assume you are, and the Vojvodina Assembly is the highest authority of the Vojvodina government, and the misunderstandings have so far been extended from that, even when the Constitution was adopted. I am the only one who also called the president of the Vojvodina Assembly, Mr. Kostreš and the Prime Minister, Mr. Pajtic, for a conversation. All the others who conducted the talks felt that the president of the Vojvodina Assembly should not be called at all, so Mr. Kostress was no longer called. It is the turn that, just from the point of view of the Assembly, as the highest authority of government, the question arises. It will be set up in the following way and you know it well, by first proposing a law on funding, which will clearly define everything that causes disagreements. Secondly, I suppose, already now, after the Constitutional Court's rulings, I hope no more decisions of the Constitutional Court will be needed, and in order not to be marketing, those who want the Constitutional Court to respond quickly should file a constitutional appeal, then within 24 hours, before a law is passed, the Constitutional Court will have to make a decision. So it will be necessary to amend the Statute and it is an ideal opportunity to solve not only this issue, but the whole series of gaps that exist. Please, I do not want to interfere here in any way, I am not a resident of Vojvodina, but when I was given three days before the vote of the draft statute, which was then in the working version, I am friends of the League of Social Democrats, who sent me to question – whether something can be corrected, clearly said cannot, because much of the Statute is written in an unfair language. As a result, today there is no basis in the Statute that it is possible to deploy budgets and competences towards local self-government, according to municipalities and even towards continents, such as Baka, such as Srem, such as Banat, and a large part of the problem of identifying citizens according to budget spending, we heard it today in the discussion, resting on exactly how these funds are being spent. I end up with a little notice for those who have asked this question today to Mr. Pastor, and he is present here, which is my great pleasure, in the meantime the cost report, the three-year report of the Capital Investment Fund has been discussed, as you know, and he is now in the Vojvodina Assembly, and those who have objections to this guy will be able to verify it. Thank you again for being here. It's a great pleasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4991	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4992	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, you see for yourself which society defends you, except for the SVM, look at these empty benches and you will see, you will immediately see what kind of hypocrisis you are dealing with. So none of these concubines are going to convince us here of the validity of this bill. I have to tell you, since I live in Vojvodina too, and we're in the middle, not because we've taken care of it, but because our ancestors left us with such a arranged Vojvodina, which we're ruining, us living in Vojvodina, and no one else but us. I must be disappointed by the text of this law. So, we who come from a well-ordered, written environment, we who have had piano school and a gusal school, don't deserve this bill, I'll tell you why. It literally says here – in Article 5. The Budgetary System Act, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", the number, in the post-point item 4 below, adds a sentence that reads "exceptionally in the case of the AP Vojvodina budget, its amount or height will be determined by applying, as a basis, income and income from the sale of non-financial assets. "I repeat: "Incomes and receipts from the sale of non-financial assets". If I had been able to, whoever wrote this proposal to you, and you certainly didn't write it, I would have written it -- revenue in the budget and receipts from the sale of non-financial assets, so it would be clear which foundation is meant as it says. We could apply a much smaller base than it is today. On the other hand, I think that I am fully qualified to talk about some other kind of problem, which some MPs see and that my party, despite being "minor," has been called by those who left, was one of the few who in 1990 sought revenues for Vojvodina and respected its programme of Vojvodina autonomy and convinced others that it was worth respecting this historic heritage in the territory of Vojvodina. Also, let me remind you, nine years ago there was a law that we called "omnibus", which was in front of the Serbian Parliament and that since then there has been no proposal adopted by the Vojvodina Assembly, which was found in this Assembly, that is, this building and the one where the sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were held. That "omnibus" went by one vote, I voted for that "omnibus", although many did not, and I must remind you that even a member of the DS then, Pal Shandor, the deceased, fled the session, not wanting to vote for an increase in jurisdiction, then the AP Vojvodina. So I point out my qualifications, to discuss both the Vojvodina issue and the issue of this law, and to try to clarify what this is really about. Vojvodina was once under Serbia, Vojvodina is no longer under Serbia, but it cannot be outside Serbia either. The Serbian duchess was also mentioned here. As a party, we celebrated it 150 years ago in Sremski Karlovci, Mr. Pastor, none of those who spoke so passionately were present at the marking of the 150 years of the first autonomy of Vojvodina, that of the Serbian Duchy or the Duke of Serbia, both names were in circulation. Of course I've been there and of course I'm very reluctant to vote for this proposal. There's one problem. The old proverb says - choose company, don't let society choose you. Mr. Pastor, I have nothing against you or your party, but obviously, the society you're moving in, at least to me, is not the society you're supposed to be in today. You yourself said that the autonomy of the Vojvodina, damaged in the last five or six years, for 700 and some million euros, so we did not deny those funds, I was not in this Assembly, but apparently those who today support your law, or the law that you represent here, the law of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, obviously that they today have quite other motives and that obviously you are not highly recommended coalition partners at the level of Vojvodina. We'll agree that it takes Vojvodina to get that 7%. The only problem is the basis that needs to be determined. I have already said, in the way I read this bill, it is not clear which basis is proposed by the AP, or the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. So, you said it should be a cost-effective side. Some people here think it's an income side. I'm closer to agreeing with the other, that 7% of the income in this case is appropriate given the country's high debt, which is covered by the sale of bonds, or securities of value. I want to say that at this point, it is not clear to me whether Vojvodina should give 7% of all revenue in the budget and whether it should add 7% of the budget deficit that was created by spending it in general, on the entire territory of Serbia, and also on the territory of Vojvodina, that I do not now potential a bridge on Beška, Corridor 10, which is working in Vojvodina. So, the only difference between us and you, and we agreed that after a long time, the Assembly discussed this, after nine years, so in the past five, six years, those who have escaped have not found it appropriate to even discuss the problem of lack of funds, or an insufficient inflow by the Constitution of guaranteed inflows in the AP Vojvodina. Also, I have to tell you, Mr. Pastor, you have a problem with your plasma. Because of these posters, the government of Vojvodina, who wants to identify itself with the Vojvodina, has in some way damaged those of us living in Vojvodina. So, I think most of our interests have been damaged by those who have misplaced the money that the Vojvodina has arrived. No matter how damaged you by 700m euros, I think the inflow of those funds in Vojvodina was over a billion euros. The plasma of these funds is very problematic. So there's been a lot of words here, and I'm going to try to make that clear. You're right. The Duchess has a problem and sewers and water. As those who escaped worked it out, I'll show you visually. This is Bucky Gratz. There was supposed to be a sewer and a wastewater purifier here. This was funded by the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. This is a three-by-three house. I got a bigger doghouse. This is what the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund paid about 300,000 euros. You'll agree that this can't even cost 3,000 euros. So it's not even plastered. There are no doors or windows. You can see it later. I don't mind Vojvodina getting 7%. And 10% should get it. But tones can be used for political purposes, especially cannot be used for channelling political purposes. I've been holding a second document here since May 10th, 2012. It's written-- work on sewers in Vienna. It's in India, where I live. It's after the first round, between the first circle and the second round. It says this: "The works were visited today by the President of Indji Municipality, Goran Jesic", which is now the Vice-President of the Vojvodina Government, "President of the Government of the AP Vojvodina, Bojan Pajtic, Director of the Fund for Capital Investments of the AP Vojvodina, Nebojsa Malenkovic and candidate for the majority MP in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, Dr Danilo Višnjevac". He says this -- on that occasion, your current Deputy Prime Minister said: "It is of utmost importance that citizens and citizens go to the second round of elections for the majority candidates in the AP Vojvodina Assembly, to identify themselves as the candidate they think will be able to continue good communication with President Pajtic and DS." Are you saying this wasn't used for party purposes? All capital investments are not DS funds. It was supposed to serve the entire Vojvodina. I cannot share myself with citizens and citizens, as Mrs Comic says, in a similar and unsuitable way. You know, those who make communication with DS before the second round are very good. Of course, there he was and spoke to the candidate Danilo Višnavac. So he was chosen on this basis. I wonder if the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, I don't mean you, your coalition partners use not for the purpose of making the citizens of Vojvodina better, but for them as a party to rebuild power. I agree with you on the water supply. The Duchess has very bad water. It seems to me that Indjia and Old Paz are ahead of it. They have very bad water. If I tell you that the funds from the Vojvodina Capital Fund are invested to build on the waterfall of Indjia a factory for recycling lead accumulators and lead waste on the rally wells, on the plot for which ecological consent was obtained on the forgeries, which even Oliver Dulic canceled, but by some miracle, by transferring jurisdiction to Vojvodina, that lead-waste recycling plant was built on the waterfall of Indjia at the rally wells. We now have a problem of water far greater than we had. We have a problem with lead pollution. Lead sulfates on the plot, which is communally equipped with funds from the Vojvodina Capital Fund, go into a synergy channel above a rally well, so our problem is multiplying. You said the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund also serves to make it from one place to another. I'll tell you one more thing. Do you know that in India, the funds of the Vojvodina Capital Fund are not made a path from place to place, but a road has been made from India to the private zone of Goran Jesic and his coalition partners, who have pulled out and privatized the social land on their names, communally equipped on the cost of the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, invested a billion dinars? Now private have and own around...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4993	Mr. Risticevic, your discussion has become a criticism of the government's work. These issues are very interesting and important, but I appreciate that you have deviated from the topic of the agenda and shifted the focus to criticism and weakness of the government of the province of Vojvodina, so please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4994	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to try and talk to those three-week-olds that the president of the Vojvodina Assembly here explained are meant for the capital investments of the Vojvodina. That's what I'm talking about. So, as far as I'm concerned, I haven't stepped down at all. I'm even trying to clarify the details of the performance of an authorised promoter who spoke about how the infrastructure was built from place to place. I claim that it is not only built from place to place, but that it is a communally equipped and industrial zone, which is now in private hands, where one is determined top-of-the-line from DS, along with its coalition partners, roughly misused, and three weeks that Vojvodina receives from the Republic budget and has obtained itself a private industrial zone by providing those funds with a million and 700,000 square meters and which these days resell at a price of 30 euros per square meter. This is against the law, and at the expense of the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, they can earn 51m euros. If that is not the subject, if the Capital Investment Fund and three weeks from the budget set for Vojvodina is not a topic, then I missed it as much as the other speakers missed it. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say that a lot of these funds have been poured into the private pockets of those individuals, which has grown into physical property. You may freely ask your first Deputy Prime Minister if what I'm saying is true. Does this house on Tatar Hill belong to him? Is it worth 500,000 euros? Where did this come from to an imperfect time student, who took office in the third year of the Faculty of Agriculture? So, with both hands, I would vote for Vojvodina to get not 7%, but to get 10%, but the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund and the funds that Vojvodina should receive from the Republic of Serbia's budget are brutally abused and do not go in favour of the citizens and citizens of Vojvodina, as the people of Vojvodina call the members of this party who have fled. At the very end, completely behind my words that I've proven the abuses and machinations that have happened, I mean, the ones that have escaped, they're not a good partner to you. They make up their party's reserve deadline from the province of Vojvodina. They do not work for the citizens of Vojvodina, they do not work for the benefit of Serbian citizens. They also robbed the citizens of Vojvodina and Serbian citizens with their own policies. Four years have not paid you the funds, and today they speak as if it had become a newspaper, and as if we were the first ones not in Vojvodina to pay those funds, and I believe that this year Vojvodina will get far more than it was before. You said the money didn't arrive in Vojvodina. Mr. Pastor, the money's here, but the bastards from the DS raised them. I'm going to vote very gladly for this proposal, but when? You're not in charge of arresting. We're not in charge either. It's just enough to comb through all the documents on Vojvodina, to see that it's worth a million and 600 thousand euros for the vineyard, and there's no vineyard. All it takes is for you to report, comb those papers yourself, and report all the bad guys in line around you. Mr. Pastor, I'll vote for this, but you know when? When you put Jesic next to the register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4995	The word is Mr. Istvan Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4996	Mr Risitičević, what I'm saying is that I can't say from a series of your allegations, because I don't think I know the details you're talking about, or from this distance I can see photos, nor is it mine to engage in what's in those photos. Don't add it to me or you can. I'm telling you again, if you think public money has been misused, then you know how it is done. I am not the one who can comb the papers, as is not the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who can comb the papers on the business of any republican institution. You know who can do that. I don't mind. Today perhaps seven, eight times I say – if someone thinks there has been an abuse, they should be checked and if it is found that it really is, then they should take a step back. What I have to say is that every year, I underline, every year, the AP Vojvodina Assembly has considered and adopted a report on the implementation of the budget and the final account of the AP Vojvodina. Since the Capital Investment Fund is an indirect budget user, the fund's report was part of the budget spending report each year. Every year he was on the benches of the MPs. They pleaded, they debated it. Today we have a sumptuous 1,600-page report compared to all the details on the agenda as well. Also, I have to tell you that the DRI has carried out a control of the spending of public money. That control has been done for over a year. We had records. We've studied these records. There were objections. On these issues, procedures have been initiated in the infringement process. But I think that if there is one topic that has been discussed, and this is a question of respect for Article 184(4), if this is to be discussed, then after there are no more arguments, you can't say – the one that came on behalf of the promoter has clampy ears. I think we need to stick to the subject and talk inside that topic, and all this other stuff, I think there's a way. You know how to confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4997	Mr. Risticevic, I don't think you have a basis for replication. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: Everyone had, except me.) I think Mr. Pastor was very clear. Mr. Pastor was decadent. I really don't see a basis for replicating his exposure. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: I will be a Decidant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4998	Mr. Pastor, I've excluded you from all these events I've been talking about. So, whether the competent state authorities are going to conduct an investigation or not, I'm going to leave that to the competent state authorities. But as a public worker, as they like me to say in Vojvodina, it is my duty and obligation that the problem that the citizen and the citizen of Vojvodina have in their home, in the Assembly in which I was elected as an MP from the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I already said that I was among the first to apply for the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, back in 1990, when it was extremely dangerous. Your Deputy Prime Minister was wearing a T-shirt at the time – I was at Ravna Gora, and today he seeks internationalization of the Vojvodina issue. I don't mind that either. I mean, it bothers me, but I don't mind him. The issue of the Constitution is also a two-way question. On the one hand, we want to respect the Constitution of Serbia, when it comes to the money we need to receive, and on the other hand, when the Constitutional Court makes some decisions, that very high-ranking Deputy Prime Minister I was talking about threatens the internationalisation of Vojvodina, although it is clearly seen that the money is in the first plan, because I have already explained it to you. The man was wearing a shirt and I wasn't wearing one. He says, "I was on flat mountain." Now he's a very big advocate of an independent Vojvodina, or he's looking for internationalization. I've clearly excluded you from this and said that I don't think you have anything to do with this and that it's primarily the product of that bad society that was trying to support itself here today, and then ran away from this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u4999	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidential Assembly of Vojvodina, as a Duke, and primarily as a citizen of Serbia, I want to say at the beginning of the discussion that no one can violate the Constitution. We all have to respect the Constitution. All I'm saying later is I don't want it to be interpreted as my position and the Roma Party that we're against Vojvodina getting 7% of the budget. So there are things very clear. What I think is good, to start a clear dialogue between the province and the republican authorities, that we should cultivate this dialogue, that regardless of the decision that the Assembly has made these days on this issue, that we must be persistent and that in the coming period we really form the state in the right way, and one of the key issues is the issue of financing the AP Vojvodina. It's a good thing you're here today, because you're creating a positive atmosphere. It wouldn't be good if the Khan had some kind of accident here, let's say, some person who's the head of some MP's club, who was able to do it in 2008, when we also claimed it should be 7%, magically deleted from the list when we were with them in the coalition. This is the answer to colleagues who, unfortunately, have gone and are constantly comparing – this side belongs to some ideology, this other ideology, and the pity that they are not here, so they can't look at the past and the ideology of some of their members, but today it's not a topic. But then it was spelled out in a magical way, and that individual in the Vojvodina Assembly said that, while Roma have a coalition contract, they should not be in the Assembly, they should not decide on those 7%. Is that correct national policy? Is that bordering on fascism? That's when we estimated that we should stop co-operation with that political party. Unlike that... (President: Mr. Shane, please, Mr. Pastor can't answer that question. I'm talking about that 7% right now. Just let me, I didn't ask a question...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5001	Mr. Shane, you have to listen to me, please. You didn't ask a direct question, but it is in itself that you need an answer. (Srdian Shane, from the scene: I didn't ask a question, it's just a finding. I'm talking about facts. Just let me talk. ) Please listen to me. Please take care of yourself, I'm listening to you well. You've asked a very sensitive question and I ask you not to have a discussion with me. I'll let you talk, but I can't let you jump off the subject. So please come back on the subject and don't put Mr. Pastor in an awkward situation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5003	If it's been disabled by the political subject of the moment to talk about 7% of the funding, in the period since 2008, and that's one of the reasons why we haven't spoken, because then we've gathered the political entities who wanted to talk about it, we certainly wouldn't talk about it here after so many years and we've all been able to figure out how much SVM has honestly fought for those 7% and we've witnessed all the debates in the adoption of the budget, and now someone's telling us, and here you see that I am in the topic, because then they should have interrupted these colleagues and then someone's telling us -- you know what, if you don't vote today, you're against Vojvodina. That's not true. It's true that back a few years ago, I wouldn't be saying this to Mr. Pastor, and you're going to help me, Mr. Pastor, if I've heard two things you've been talking about. One thing was that Vojvodina didn't get the money. It is clear to all of us who ruled the government and the money back four or five years and why Vojvodina was impoverished. The other thing you were talking about, Mr. Pastor, is the one who doesn't exercise his constitutional and legally guaranteed rights, that he's most likely stupid. That's where I agree with you. In order not to be stupid, two years ago, we did what you were talking about, I have to refer to Mr. Marijan Rističević, a criminal complaint against the secretary of information, because from that 7% of the Vojvodina budget, which is the decision of the Vojvodina Assembly, that the press publishing institution "Them" must be financed, and that, at the very least, as it was the first year, you remember how we provided constant funding to the institutions at that time, but 7% is not realized for those purposes. That's the key to the question. 7% is not realised for those purposes, and an article is published in that list criticising the Executive Council for Information, and information is interrupted immediately next week. A key question I want to ask today, and this is a question, and if you evaluate Mr. Chairman as a question, then I agree. We have two options. One possibility is that if we think someone made a mistake or a crime, then we need to process it rather than deny it. That's where I agree with you. But then I can't understand and expect a reaction from you to make the next move in the Vojvodina Assembly. My question is – is it realistic that out of those 7%, without a clear court ruling, without a clear court ruling, without clearly filed criminal charges, we have made an application, the funding of one institution has been abolished, and the decision of the Vojvodina Assembly guaranteeing this funding is not lifted? Is that real? Is that sustainable? Is that constitutional? Are these two different approaches to the same thing, the way the given moment suits us? The last thing I want to say, and it has to do with 7% of the budget is – did the Kovačica municipality of those 7% need to build a pool or hire workers? Was Ope supposed to be bought, president of a municipality that wasn't in one party, so he got funding from there to move into that party? Was he in Serbia's Montenegro, where he wasn't president of the municipality too, so he was there, so he had to get the funds to move there? So, there are very serious questions, which you personally are not guilty of, and I'm sorry to have to tell you today. That's what I'm saying most honestly. I speak most honestly as a man, because here your party has placed in the Executive Greater Vojvodina, whom I appreciate as one of the greatest management experts, not only in Serbia but also in European spaces, he made it very clear that if I asked him as an expert, he would have affirmative measures in the original law of the Vojvodina that minorities could vote those 7%, set quite differently. I am for that 7%, but from this discussion, I still have no clear argument that I can define my opinion, as well as many of my colleagues. I think, regardless of the decision, the good will of the president of the Serbian Parliament and the President of the Vojvodina Assembly should be used from all of this to continue this dialogue, to resolve this issue in a serious and constructive way, not to be politicised in such a way that today, if we do not vote for it, we are against Vojvodina, or someone is a separatist and someone doesn't know what. I think this session has drawn a line, in that sense that we've talked about some things that have happened and that we need to continue this dialogue, and that only dialogue and agreement can get us out of this situation. I expect a question from you today, or I'll come to Novi Sad for that question to get, you don't have to tell me today, but I think it's a very important question for the credibility of the Vojvodina Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5004	Thank you. The People's Messenger Paul Markov has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5005	Dear colleagues, I must firstly point out that the amendment to the draft budget law has its legitimacy and it is perfectly normal for one government, in particular, to fight here to get as much funding as possible, as any government does. However, we always have to ask what is hidden and what is the background of certain laws? Knowing who makes up the executive power in Vojvodina, which primarily refers to DS and LSV and their clear policy of double arches and the primary interest in covering their parties. We come to the conclusion, what the Banacan would say – not barking because of himself, but the villages do. The coalition has been mentioned for nearly two decades in power in the province and local self-government in Vojvodina. Strong money stands out for our province in the same period, however, the citizens of Vojvodina very little or almost nothing feel from targeted media performances, self-relating and calling for successful results, and now the already famous declarative struggle to improve the citizens of Vojvodina. The situation in Vojvodina, as an obvious product of the province's power, in the past 15 years is desperate and we can best tell you who live there. As someone who represents the northern Banat, I will tell you that sometimes cities, and now after these many years of the province's democratic power, municipalities such as Kikinda, Novi Knezevic, Choka, Komishijska Senta, Ada, Mol, Kanjiza almost disappears from the map of Vojvodina and Serbia. It's the best proof that the money that comes into the province's register goes to a huge part of the so-called. the party combinations, are over-transmitted to party officials of a related businessman whose sole task is to maintain DS and self-proclaimed circuit curator with all signed boards. Where do yellow bags and large trucks fill with goods that are divided before each election? Where do punks buy votes for 2,000 dinars? What cash register is that coming from? With these examples, I would like to direct you to the conclusion of today's main problem in the request of the province government through this amendment, which is the legitimacy and authority of those who are today asking for additional money from the central budget. Of course, apart from you, Mr. Pastor, how do we believe in justification requires and claims of regularity that require budgetary resources when the province's government is working non-transparently and beyond all controls. The entire Vojvodina is talking about the long-standing illegality of the province's Capital Investment Fund as the largest investment beneficiary of the budget. Do the citizens of Vojvodina and Serbia know that in the past seven years the work of the province's fund and the enormous money that has been passed through the same fund there is only one serious report on spending the same? Do they know that during all these years and legal obligations of public procurement, only a few procurements have been conducted in an open procedure? Everything else in the restrictive and negotiating procedure. Where and how the great funds for public investment are spent, all we have to do is fantasize. In the past seven years, citizens of Northern Banat have seen only a few rural investments, and this is hardly called capital. Of these few investments, I will say only one example -- a 1,600 square-metre sports hall in the village of Mokrin near Kikinda, which was estimated at 47 million dinars five years ago, when it was started, which is its real value. After so many years of hala and today, it stands unfinished. The price has reached 120 million dinars, and it has no sports hall status, but school halls. For the same money, we could build Madison Square Garden in the middle of Banat. As the amendment on the allocation of additional funds to the province holds political interests, I quotes the fact that the province's curator Bojan Pajtic officially opened this facility before the elections, even though today it has no permission, no heating, and the hall itself is losing its purpose and turning into another monument of human stupidity. The other two investments in northern Banat, you can only assume, paved access roads to the bridge near Ade which, one year after the end, became like a battlefield or a Đura Jaksic Đura Jaksic street in the already mentioned Mokrin, which is 1,800 meters for the amount of 54 million dinars. The next example is gone and therefore we ask the province's power – where is our money? This requirement, which has been directed primarily by the province DS and LSV, has the exception of the character of the double arch and the hypocritical character. Namely, the province's government is now struggling in adhering to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and recently it has been flagrantly trampled by the provisions of the Statute of the Vojvodina against the Constitution, which was later confirmed by law, and a few months ago by the Constitutional Court's decision proven to be unconstitutional behaviour. To all of this, we have heard the position of the province's authorities about the disrespect of the Constitution, and today they are also calling for the Constitution. Let us not forget to ask and remind the province government – why did she not fight so hard for this interpretation of 7% of the budget funds during the Mirko Cvetkovic government? Why did it only appear at the end of the fourth year of the term of office of the previous government? After all, it is clear to them that this is a political issue, an attempt to attack a new republican government without any basis and without any intention of fighting for the interest of the people of Vojvodina. It is clear that as an MP from Northern Banat, the SNS and I, not only will we not support the proposed amendments to the 2013 draft law on the RS budget, but this way we are publicly asking to speed up the examination of all the funds that have been allocated to the province's government so far, and especially on the dissipating side, and to remove any doubts about the consumption of the same ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5006	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5007	Mr. Chairman, General, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Pastor, the chairman of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is a reflection of the democratisation and leadership of this assembly's draft law on the completion of the Budgetary System Act or rather on the financing of Vojvodina. I think that's just fine. The very information that has been presented here today that in the last 10 years 39 initiatives have come from Vojvodina and that only three have been on the agenda talking about the character of the former government, the former regime depicted in the DS. I'm sorry I'm going to mention names tonight, they're not here tonight, and I'm asking the cameramen to show that there's no one here from the DS. However, today we have heard about the respect of the Constitution and the disrespect of the Constitution, the budgets for the AP Vojvodina set by the 7% Constitution. I join those MPs who claim that this is not only a financial problem, but that some things are clouded, which is when it comes to the Vojvodine Development Bank or the investment fund, and other things. I will be free to say, and that is disrespect for the Constitution and the disintegration of the Serbian state, the Honorable Chairman, Serbia's Constitutional Court is 10. Seventy-seven. In 2012, he made a decision declaring as unconstitutional as many as 22 provisions of the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. The law was a topic of consideration and critical dispute between Serbian experts, as well as members of the SPC's Holy Synod, from different angles. Anyway, our experts have explained why this law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, and the Statute itself, is why they are unconstitutional. However, the way with these legal acts, I must say, is disrupting the unity of the legal system and endangering the foundations of the statehood of the Republic of Serbia. That's what this is about. It's this occipital game that we want to expose today. The Constitutional Court of Serbia has turned all this into one decision for years on these issues and problems, as our prominent legal and other experts claimed. Among other things, it is that the northern Serbian province cannot have the capital, representations in other countries, that it cannot have jurisdiction in many areas of social life, such as energy, spatial planning, environmental protection, agriculture, water economy, forestry, social protection, gender equality, mother and child protection, supervision of local self-government, as well as that the Vojvodina Academy of Science and Art is an anti-constitutional institution. It is very important, Mr. Chairman, that the Serbian Constitutional Court has made a decision that annuls a large number of anti-constitutional powers of Vojvodina. That is in a legal sense, I would say, a historic decision that stops the further separation of the Serbian state. That's the problem. It is about winning state policy and protecting fundamental national interests. In fact, Serbia's Constitutional Court has regained faith that the fight for respect for rights and constitutionality makes sense and that law in Serbia can still overcome violence. It is of great importance that the Serbian Constitutional Court defends the Serbian Constitution and opposes any kind of lawlessness. The Serbian Constitutional Court defended the country's constitutional order and defended it with rights and separatism, which says Serbia has a future if it develops as a legally established state.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5008	Mr. Atlagic, decisions of the Constitutional Court are not the subject today. You're saying that and it's all working, but it's still another very important question, which is likely to come on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5009	Mr. Chairman, I know it's late and I know that some people are having a hard time, but we've been talking about...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5010	It's not too late at all, I'm not bored at all, on the contrary, I'm very glad to hear a lot of questions that you're making, but I'm trying and trying to be on the agenda. With all your respect, with all your questions that you're really starting and I don't mind, but I'm in a position to hear and assess whether you're on the agenda or not. So I ask you to leave the Constitutional Court now and return to the draft amending the Budget Law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5011	Thank you. You'll see that I'm on the agenda and I'll finally propose a proposal. On the side of what I was saying, I must say that some of the politicians from Vojvodina, such as Nenad Canka, Bojan Pajtic, and even Cedomir Jovanovic, Dr Zarko Koraq, behave quite the opposite and did not respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Mr. Chairman, they even violated the unity of the constitutional order and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia with their statements. I'll direct quote. Nenad Canak said -- I quote -- that Serbia's Constitutional Court decisions are an anti-civilisation attack of the isolationist forces on everything that has been achieved in Vojvodina in recent years, a quote on July 20th 2012. Dr. Zarko Korac, who is the vice president of our Assembly and LDP MP for the Constitutional Court's decision, said, quote - the government in Serbia is playing fire in Vojvodina, going into a difficult political crisis and this game of fire is a relapse of heavy centralism and a nasty anti-Vojvodian...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5012	Please, you will still have to respect the will of the chairman. I suggest you step away from the subject. I repeat again, the subject is interesting, but it is not the subject of today's debate, and in that sense I ask you to return to the law and complete your presentation, but regarding the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5013	Mr. Chairman, for these constitutional powers, which I am talking about, money is being obtained from Serbia's budget, and constitutional powers are the ones that are to be destroyed and broken by Serbia's constitutional order. I think I'm in the dark. That's what the messengers and the peoples will do.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5014	You're not in the dark. I'm sorry, but if you can't continue on the agenda, then it's best to give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5015	Give up? I'm sorry, but I have no intention. Why would I give up? It is the constitutional principles of the AP Vojvodina and the financing of constitutional provisions and competences. Let me say that the president of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, Mr Pajtic, said he does not care about the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Imagine, he says in Vojvodina – Nikolic did not win the election, finished the quote, a statement dated 20 July 2012. Am I on the subject or not in the subject, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5016	No, you're not in the dark.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5017	Thank you very much. I give up, it's an honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5018	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5019	Mr. Vice President, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 106. - the dignity of the Assembly. Although you have broken up the previous speaker several times, I would also like to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure this way. No one in the Serbian Parliament can call the head of a parliamentary group, Mr Jovanovic and the vice-president of the Serbian Parliament, Mr Zarko Korac, the people who violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The entire discussion of our parliamentary group here today in the Serbian Parliament went in this direction to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that what is provided for by the Constitution for the financing of the AP Vojvodina is respected. We are even instructed and statements by President Nikolic ten days ago, who said the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia will be respected as regards the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina and every letter of the Constitution. Mr. Chairman, please don't let any MPs, in this case LDP, target as someone who doesn't respect the Constitution, because it's dangerous for a political system, dangerous for society, because we're coming back into a situation that we thought existed in the '90s, that there are patriots and traitors. Thank you. [[Marko Atlagic, from the place: I am reporting for replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5020	You have no right to a replica. (Marco Atlagic, from the place: I do, called me a liar. Please, just two sentences. Why don't you listen first? You have no right to reply to the statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure and I cannot give it to you, and I will now answer to the People's MP. I think I warned the previous speaker in due time, that I was trying to get him into the streams. In the end, he gave up, so I think I respected the Rules of Procedure. But if you are not satisfied, we can decide in the voting day whether the injured Rules of Procedure are. (Marko Atlagic, from the post: I will use the time of the parliamentary group. Atlagic, please, you are not an authorised representative. You can't speak through the apparition of the Rules of Procedure's injury, and you're not an authorised representative, and on that basis I can't give you my word, I would violate the Rules of Procedure. He has the right, Mr. Veroljub Arsic, because he is an authorised representative. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure concerning the work of the National Assembly, which regulates the right to replication. There is no discretion in Article 104 whether the right to replicate the Members of Parliament can be exercised in a simple discussion, in a replica or in a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say well – if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is abusively expressing himself about a non-member MP, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP shall have the right to replication. Please stick to it. Also, I am advocating Article 108, which was also violated when MP Marko Atlagic was interrupted in the part where he wanted to make a parallel right, or practice, because if the Prime Minister of Vojvodina does not respect the Constitutional Court's decisions, and under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitutional Court of Justice's decision, the final, executive and general binding, and if he publicly says so in the media and the media, the question is, how will he respect the rest of the legislation of the Republic of Serbia, how will he respect the decisions made by the AP Vojvodina? So I also believe that the right of the MP was then violated and that he was for no reason interrupted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5022	I think that Article 104 that speaks of law exists and the next position that it says – on the use of the rights set out in Article 1, I am deciding on the President of the National Assembly. It's my right to decide whether anyone has a right to a replica or not. Someone might get hit by it, I don't rule it out, have the right to react, but I believe that this time, since it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, the MP had no right to reply. But no matter what, go ahead, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5023	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If what I'm saying is true, and it's not true what the previous LDP MP is saying, let me quote it. Cedomir Jovanovic said, quote -- the republican government has treated and still treated Vojvodina in a corrupt way, and therefore Vojvodina needs to be given full sovereignty and recognised as a country. Done quote, 26.10.2012. Please, is there anything unclear? Whether I have lied or the predecessor may be judged by the citizens of Serbia and by the MPs. I wanted Mr. Chairman to point out a few other politicians, what's about Vojvodina, that, in fact, through Vojvodina, the constitutional order and the state unity of the Serbian state are being broken down through this problem, and you didn't allow me to report regularly. Thank you anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5024	Thank you very much. Mr. Hajdarevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5025	Mr. Chairman, I really admire your tolerance to hear that the MPs are false. The Rules of Procedure of the 106th Dignity of the National Assembly, of course, can be the same member because right now my predecessor has injured the dignity of the National Assembly. When you speak falsely of any messenger of the people, you cover up the dignity of this congregation. Cedomir Jovanovic, LDP absolutely have a clear view of Vojvodina's autonomy. That first part, we can agree there and I'm glad, but neither Cedomir Jovanovic nor LDP have ever said anything like that. Don't plant it. The ruling majority, this Serbian government is destroying Vojvodina's autonomy and it does so with this behaviour, makes it a proposal for a budget system law adopted in September, it will do so if the draft budget is adopted. But make sure that LDP will always represent the interests of citizens and Vojvodina, as well as citizens of Serbia. Don't ask you for one hour to put some false things in the mouth of any MPs not only of the assembly, it's important to us LDP MPs because that's how you put a target on each of us. I think those days of the 1990s are traitors and patriots long behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5026	I want to deny this. Let me just say that the source of the seal is from 23.06.2012. Have a look at it, and see what Cedomir Jovanovic has said and whether I am lying or the previous MP who spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5027	Thank you. Since the list of parliamentary groups is no longer signed up for the word, I would like to ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96, would like to do so. Rules of Procedure? Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. I respect your observation that by putting the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the agenda of the Bill on the Completion of the Law on the Budgetary System as an initiative of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, a quality and good step has been made. In this way, the SNS as the largest and most responsible partner in the Serbian government shows that there are no taboo topics, there are no topics that need to be pushed under the carpet, no matter how much harm they bring to us. That everything and every topic should be transparent in front of both the Serbian public and the Serbian public. The political and economic picture of the AP Vojvodina cannot be seen separately from the rest of Serbia, the picture unfortunately is not great at all. Our citizens living in Vojvodina, as well as those living in Belgrade, Shumadia or southern Serbia have the same problems. The common denominator of all these problems is the misery, desolation and impertinence left behind by the previous policy of furniture. I think there is an answer to your question at the beginning of the debate this morning, which is the question – why Vojvodina is no longer a locomotive of Serbia's development. Who's responsible for the fact that 30% of the population of Vojvodina doesn't have a sewerage network. Who is responsible for not having an invalid drinking water, or for having an invalid drinking water. Who is responsible for why Vojvodina has lost 70% of social capital over the past 20 years. Is this the responsibility of the Serbian government who took responsibility just over three months ago? Of course not. The responsibility of the province government is that due to the absence of a serious and operational plan that would improve the standard of living for the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, the dying duchy villages or the launch of systematically destroyed Vojvodina agriculture are revived. In order to cover up this incompetence of the province, the executive government resorts to hypocrisy and accusations, the guy where our money is. In this way, they seek to present Serbia to citizens living in Vojvodina as some god-awful evil stepmother who allegedly, continuously and unconditionally, exploits and abuses an unprotected and malnourished child. Mr. Pastor, this question is not addressed to you because you do not have that authority as the president of the AP Council. The answer to this question should be given by representatives of the executive government of the AP Vojvodina. I understand your wish and I have carefully read your statements yesterday and today and I think that they are extremely honest, extremely well-intentioned when you say that 45 schools, 20 closed swimming pools or a water network of 1,620 kilometers can be made for these 9.5 billion dinars. Like I just did in a replica with a colleague and I said, what are the guarantees that this is really going to happen? What are the guarantees that this money will be used to make such projects, not to further capitalize the "Vojvodina Development Bank"? What needs to be known is that the functioning of the province's institutions is threatened not by Belgrade's maternal relationship, or the republican level of government, but by the fact that the province's authorities have invested great money in saving the drone of Vojvodina Development Bank, probably out of fear that "Vojvodine Development Bank", but also the province's development funds do not turn into some "New Agrobanks". As a result, the taxpayers' money ended in suspicious transactions in the "Vojvodine Development Bank", which achieved a loss of nearly seven billion dinars in the first half of this year alone, which shows that the bank has no perspective, at least not with business policy. There are some controversial sentences here today that I can't understand and I don't want to understand. I know that Serbia is an overindebted country, I know that our public debt is 60% of GDP, I know that we owe international financial institutions, the World Bank, the IMF, even commercial banks, but that Serbia is in debt to the AP Vojvodina 740m euros, I cannot accept that, especially I cannot accept from the representatives of that political party who have supported all the governments that this debt allegedly did. For the SNS, it is unclear how the Vojvodina earns income, but it is even more cloudy and much abuse as it spends it. Therefore, the SNS in the voting day will not support this legislative proposal, but we are for communication, for dialogue and for finding a better solution for all Serbian citizens, living in Vojvodina, Shumadia, anywhere in our Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5029	The word is Mr. Istvan Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5030	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to thank you from the heart of today, it's been a long day, it's been exhausting, but I think it's been a useful time because it's proven that we can think about things differently, but that we can talk about these things and that we can make arguments in a normal discussion. What is quite clear, nor did I have any intention, nor was it possible to say that for the situation that we are today in Vojvodina, the parliamentary majority responsible for today's work. I didn't say that, I said what the fact is. It is also not possible to place a question above the claim or the claim that the parliamentary majority has been responsible since September for the adoption of the law amending the Budgetary System Act, since it passed the law. What I see as something that we agreed on today, that there are things that we don't need and we can't negotiate, which is respect for the Constitution, including respect for the Constitutional Court's decision, because it has the same power as the Constitution. I must say again, I don't know which time, but starting from the sentence that "the mother's studiorum" is that the province government, the province government, respects the Constitutional Court's decision. Prejudge what will be the Constitutional Court's decision against the Statute, I think it exceeds the limits of normal discussion. That's what we can discuss, to speculate, but that's another sphere. Why are we reporting from this initiative now? We are reporting, ladies and gentlemen, for this reason, I have to say again, because the Law amending the Budgetary System Act was passed in September of the month, we couldn't have answered earlier. When I say or say here that Vojvodina has been abolished by 700m euros, then I must say that in the past six years, the budget has been put together so that it was in accordance with the constitutional minimum, but that the decision contained by the Budget Act for the year concerned is not respected because the money did not correspond. The problem with this law today is that we relativize this constitutional category and what we're afraid of is that from now on we won't have 7%. For this reason, we are launching an initiative to amend this law. I must again say that in this 12-hour discussion, I have not heard reasoned arguments that raise questions above our claims regarding the relativization of the constitutional guarantee, I have not even seen it in the explanation of the government's position to reject this proposal. For that reason, I think there is still a need and possibility to discuss these things and think and think that it would be good to remove this existing problem and relieve it a little bit. As far as communication is concerned, I must tell you that in nine days that will end now on Saturday, in Novi Sad, at my invitation was the President of the Republic Assembly, Prime Minister, Minister of Justice and State Administration, and on Saturday he will be the president of the state. I think it's an attempt to establish co-operation, communication, and we're looking for solutions through it. I thank you once again on this day and I want to say that I believe there is still a chance that this proposal will be adopted, because what we are proposing today has been accepted both by the SPS and the G17 when the law that was adopted in September of the month has changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-22-0.u5031	I'm finishing the initial search. I am informing the MPs that we will continue our work at 10 o'clock tomorrow November 23rd. Thank you.
