ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-27-0.u636	Dear People's MPs, the honored guests of this house, continue the work of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Before we move to decision-making, we need to determine the quorum. In accordance with Article 88(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 184 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, presented to the Programme and candidates for members of the Government, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 270(2), The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly on the Government Programme and the election of the Prime Minister and members of the Government, decides in general by a secret vote, unless it decides to vote publicly. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by a roll call. I propose that the National Assembly vote on the Programme of Government and the election of the Prime Minister and the members of the Government by a public-provoking Members of Parliament. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 139 MPs voted in favour, it was not against, one was abstained, 70 were not voted, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted, or decided to vote publicly on the Government Programme and the election of the Prime Minister and members of the Government. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on a proposal for the president and members of the Government by calling, I remind you that at the same time the National Assembly votes on the Government Programme and the election of the Prime Minister and members of the Government, then the National Assembly decides on the choice of the government as a whole and most of the votes of all MPs. I also remind you that it's Article 131. The Rules of Procedure set out the procedure for the public vote by a call and that, in accordance with that provision: - The Secretary General of the National Assembly shall call on the Members of Parliament in the alphabetical order of the last name. - A national MP who approaches the vote and says the word "yes", "no" or "abstained". - The president repeats the name and name of the MP who voted, his statement, or determines whether he is absent or not. The Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall write down a statement from the MP, or his absence, with his name and last name on the list. I'm putting on a motion to elect members of the government as a whole. We approach the vote by calling out the MPs. I ask the Secretary-General of the National Assembly to make the call of the MPs in the alphabetical order of the MPs and record their statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-27-0.u637	I ask the Members of Parliament to plead for the proposal. Aligrudić Miloš – absent Andrić Ivan – v, Antić Aleksandar – za, Antić Zoran – za, Arsenović Konstantin – za, Arsić Veroljub – za, Atlagić Marko – za, Babić Zoran – za, Bjatović Dušan – za, Bjatović Donka – v, Bašović Olgica – absent, Bečić Igor – za, Blažić Branislav – za, Blečić Marija – za, Blejić Marija – za, Bozanović Šta Goran – v, Božović Balša – v, Božović Stana – za, Bojanić Zoran – za, Budimirović Jela – za, Bulajić Svetislav – vošar – vrju, Varga Laslo – v, Vasić Zran – za, Vasić Ljubica – za, Vasić Ljubica – Za, Vljac – Za, Veličović Slobodan – Za, Vličović – Za, Vličović – Za, Vležinović – Za, Vlič, Vljkić, Vžinović, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Vžić, Vžić, Vžić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Za, Všić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Všić, Za, Všić, Všić, Všić, Vić, Vić, Vić, Za, Vić, Všić, Vić, Vić, Za, Všić, Vić, Za, Za, Za, Vić, Vić, Vić, Všić, Všić, Za, Za, Za, Za, Všić, Všić, Všić, Vš, Vš, Za, Za, Vš, Všić, Za, Všić, Všić, Všić, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Vić, Vš, Všić, Všić, Za, Z, Vš
ParlaMint-RS_2012-07-27-0.u638	Since we've held a vote by calling the MPs, I'm closing the vote. Allow me to announce the results of the vote. Of the MPs who joined the vote, 142 MPs voted for the president and members of the government, 72 MPs were against them, and 26 MPs were absent. Since 142 MPs voted for the proposal for president and members of the government, representing most of the total number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly has chosen the Government, in the proposed composition. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the President, Vice-Presidents and Government ministers on this election. I am now setting a 20-minute break to prepare the newly elected members of the government for an oath. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, at the beginning, to welcome once again all our guests, His Holiness the Patriarch of the Serbian and other representatives of the church communities, the representatives of the diplomatic crust and the other guests who are in our home. I'm sorry for the little delay in the report by the Administrative and Mandate Committee on the resignations that followed the appointment of members of the Government. You have received the resignations of MPs Bojan Pajtic, Ruzice Pavlovic Djindjic, Velimir Ilic, Ivica Dacic, Jovan Krkobbic, Zarko Obradović, Milutin Mrkonjic, Slavice Djukić Dejanović, Mladjan Dinkic, Suzana Grubjesic, Verice Kalanovic and Rasim Ljajic, acting as MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly on the examination of this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case under Article 88(2) of the Law has been brought to the end of the term of all MPs, which we have read. You have also received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which found that the election of MPs Aleksandr Vukic, Zorana Mihajlović Milanović and Goran Knezevic for members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia took place on 27 July 2012. The law on the selection of Members of Parliament, under which the taking over of office, which according to this law is incompatible with the function of Members of Parliament, ceases the term of office by force of the law. For these reasons, the Committee proposes that the National Assembly establish the end of the term of office of these Members of Parliament. In accordance with Article 88(1), point (2) and (5) of Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that before the end of time they were elected to the National MPs Bojan Pajtic, Ružica Pavlović Djindić, Velimir Ilic, Ivica Dacic, Jovana Krkobabić, Zarko Obradić, Milutin Mrkonjic, Slavica Đukić Dejanović, Mladjan Dinkić, Suzani Grubjesic, Verica Kalanovic, Rasim Ljajic, Aleksandra Vukic, Zorana Mihajlović and Goran Knezevic, on the day of resignation, i.e. by taking over the function that is incompatible with the parliamentary function. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. I ask the President, Vice-Presidents and Ministers of the Government to, in accordance with Article 271. Rules of Procedure and Article 16(2) Government law, approaches to swearing. (The President reads, and the members of the government repeat the text of the oath. ) "I pledge my allegiance to the Republic of Serbia and to my honor, to honor the Constitution and the law, that the government's duty will be done knowingly, responsibly, and committed and committed to the preservation of Kosovo and metaphors within the Republic of Serbia. "I ask the President, Vice-Presidents and Ministers of the Government to sign and submit the text of the oath. (Implementing the National Anthem of the Republic of Serbia) Since the National Assembly has chosen the Government, and since it was the only item of the agenda of this session, according to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Thank you.
