ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2056	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 81 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Suzanne Spasojevic and Vesna Stepic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for the meetings to be attended by Dr. Jorvanka Tabakovic, governor of the National Bank of Serbia. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals of the acts and from points 33 to 36 of the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for acts under points 33. 34, 35 and 38 of the agenda 35, 36 of the agenda, and before the opening of the joint single search I remind you that according to Article 193 and corresponding to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be 5 hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of members of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate per parliamentary group is as follows: SNS one hour 15 minutes and 48 seconds, DS one hour one minute and 12 seconds, SPS 30 minutes, DSS Vojislav Kostunica 25 minutes and 12 seconds, Urs18 minutes, LDP 16 minutes and 48 seconds, PUPS 14 minutes and 24 seconds, SDS 10 minutes and 48 seconds, NS 9 minutes and 36 seconds, JS 0st minutes and 24 seconds, SVM six minutes, SPS six minutes, LSDV 6 minutes, National Minority Group, National Party and Rich Serbia 6 minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall, by mutual agreement, determine a maximum of three participants in the debate that you have just to speak for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to be represented by MP Djordje Stojsic, MP Miroslav Petkovic, DSS Vojislav Kostunica, MP Zoran Kasalovic, Predrag Markovic URS, Milorad Stosic PUPS and Bojan Đuric LDP, according to these points of the agenda. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly with a joint single review of the proposal to elect Vice-Governmentary of the NBS, a proposal for a decision to elect a Council of the State Auditing Institution, proposals for amendments to decisions on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a decision to amend decisions on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Does the promoter Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic, governor of the NBS, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2057	Thank you. I am honored to be present today in the role of promoters in front of my fellow MPs and to propose, in accordance with the amendments and additions to the NBS Act, the vice-governments I am going to tell you about today as much as necessary. Although for many, the way in which the NBS Act was amended was at least unusual and served many to express their dissatisfactions with the occasion, I want to tell you that all of the trends in the development of central banks by the European Central Bank via the National Bank of Great Britain are either being applied or already being prepared to apply the same solutions, which the NBS will apply. This means that the part that deals with supervision of the overall financial system will be particularly illuminated under the public eye and be so organized that its work is not a secret and that the results in the financial system, which sometimes know that they are not very positive, are not surprising. This director of the Board of Supervisors, who will be in the rank of Vice Governor, will be elected later, when we choose a new council and when these new authorities adopt amendments to the NBS statutes, which here in the National Assembly will be certified, confirmed and voted. All those who say it's a reduction in the independence of the NBS must bear in mind one thing. The independence of the NBS, which has been defined by the Constitution, cannot be deliberately replaced by the alleged independence of the legislative body, this assembly, Parliament, which is the only supervisory body of the NBS. The whole world knows the system of responsibility and the public for what it is, the stability of the financial system, targeted inflation and the use of public funds, after all. In that sense, the vice governor is elected today in the National Assembly in the manner in which the IMF mission representative, Mr Albert Jaeger, proposed in 2010. Not because he suggested, but because it is logical for a member of the executive board, whose chairman is the vice governor, to have the same power to vote on certain decisions as the governor himself who is also elected here. The biggest possible independence of decision-making is achieved precisely in a way that you have the original power of choice and that this power of choice and your decisions do not depend on who pays you. In that sense, I really consider it a more advanced solution to have the Vice-Governors elected by parliament, on a proposal from the governor, not the governor himself. The financial independence of the National Bank has been retained, as well as institutional, as well as functional independence in terms of the choice of objectives, but also the measure of the instruments for applying and achieving these objectives. As governor, I suggest you choose Ana Gligorijević, Diana Dragutinović and Vesegarin Pjescic for the vice governors. They're all employees of the National Bank, working for many years. Ana Gligorijević, although a lady, is not a problem, is very young and energetic-looking, in 1961 he was a phyllologist by primary education, and at the Faculty of Economics of the University of Belgrade he defended the Master's thesis – the restructuring of state external debt and the restoration of a sustainable level of external responsibility. Her education since 2007 at the conclusion of postgraduate studies abroad, in France, is something called continuous learning, which the National Bank is applying today. Since 1996, she has been employed at the National Bank of Serbia in places of special adviser, director, director general, vice governor, where she stands today. What I want to point out, that it has defined me for these three people, is not only their education and that they are from the house they are attached to, but also the human traits that they know how to bring together the best team and that they really get out of their associates what's best in them. The school can finish anyone. Raising in terms of education and education, one you get in the house, education at higher schools, but humanity, making common decisions and respect for people in the house who should be a symbol for many in this country is not something you can learn. It's just a man owns it, and believe me, he recognizes it, and I want us to have this choice and cultivate such qualities. Mrs Diana Dragutinović is known to you as a non-party figure, who was the finance minister, and she did come from the National Bank from the place of vice governor. Many of us have had the opportunity here to share arguments with her on professional issues and on how we collaborated with her, I don't believe there are any different experiences. It was open to objections, it was very devoted to the profession, and after staying in the government, it had its place in the National Bank again, where it continued to do its research. As you can see, her CV is one of the longest because she deals with learned work. He's currently in financial stability. But there's a special line with Diana that we all point out, but rarely anyone who works on it practically, which is the creation of young frames that need to replace those who now work at the NBS. Giving incentives to young researchers, economists, economists to study abroad, to apply their knowledge here in the house, and to be someone who is willing to keep his creativity, not to make his boss's clone of himself from whom his signing abroad or raises or ways of progress depends. Independent young people, who are team members and who should retain creativity are one of the essential qualities in the work that Diana Dragutinović does and does it very successfully. By June 2012, Veselin Pješcic was the director of the Directorate that dealt with monetary operations, and from that place he himself was removed at the moment when some turbulences started, which I do not want to talk about, because I do not want in any way to enter any kind of debate or topic that will reduce the importance of proposing for the first time a vice governor here at the National Bank and I do not want the personality, profession, humanity and professionalism of these three people to be in the second plan. He's 1971, Diana's 1958. We're so generic. I'm 1960. We get along very well as a team. Mr. Veselin Pescic is someone who has worked at the National Bank since he graduated from college, only six months working at the Faculty of Economics. He graduated with a score of 10, average score of 9.72 at college. He was mostly in finance, banking and insurance. He mastered the topic in 2001 – Central Bank Independence and macroeconomic stability. He was perfected in the country and abroad, in Switzerland, in America, in England. He's doing research. He is a member of the "Monthly Analysis and Forecasts" magazine. The father is two sons. Diana's the mother of her son and daughter. People who have been together and together with me for these months and a half have really managed to achieve one unity in the decisions we make together, not wanting to leave a decision on important issues concerning the financial stability of this country, professional teams and professional teams in the rise of young people. A very common phenomenon in Serbia is that ministers are representatives of a mid-level governance decision that changes the ministers, a layer below, but they remain multiplier, thus often hiding and having the right to play as a middle-class staff decision in the ministries. Believe that it is a very common case that this happens in the National Bank, but by respecting them, when you get a decision where it reads – 58 experts have proposed a certain amount of the reference interest rate, we agreed that these 58 experts deserve every respect, but that decisions are made by the name and last name of the people you choose here and who you choose and that they must bear personal responsibility, assessing the extent to which recommendations and decisions of professional teams are applicable today in Serbia, in which the National Bank is not isolated island, which cannot live in its own self-indulgence and self-satisfaction, which is not allowed by any criticism, advice and objection to receive as an attack on its independence, which must be opened, to speak to bankers, businessmen, citizens, because there is interdependence between citizens and banks, the National Bank and banks, as well as between doctors and patients. If there wasn't one, there wouldn't be another. The National Bank depends not only on the success of the banking system, but also on the real sector, but also on people who work in Serbia and are able to pay their credit obligations if they have them. I think these people deserve not only the grades they got in college, not only did they deserve me to propose them with such little words, having the understanding that you worked late last night and that the best possible grades would only get after the election in their practical work. You will be able to exercise your role as parliament, someone who controls the National Bank, in the best possible way, not only through the Finance Committee, but also in any other way that you consider necessary and in that sense we will be of service to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2058	Thank you. Does MP Vesna Kovac, chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, want a word? (No) Do the representatives of the promoters, MPs Jovan Palalic, Meho Omerovic, Djordje Milicevic, Vladimir Ilic and Miroslav Markicevic want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2059	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Assembly. Mrs Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank my fellow MPs from LSD and SVM who allowed me to speak at the beginning of today's agenda on these points before the Assembly, as it often does, takes a real or strange course that has nothing to do with the agenda points. This may be an ideal opportunity for all of us together, this meeting is at the beginning of our mandate, with a agenda like this where, on the one hand, we have one of the most prominent and oldest national institutions, like the NBS, where we choose the Vice-Governors, we have one new institution that just enters the second term, if we choose the DRI Council today. Of course, we're talking about all of this at a moment that's been presented in the past few months as controversial by many of whose political projections, including every single one of the people sitting here in the National Assembly. We are certainly discussing in the only legislative and highest body of government -- in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's why I'm going in reverse. First, the congregation itself and no confusion, since many of us often needed to remind the chairman or one of our participants that we must stick to the subject when speaking in the National Assembly. The National Assembly is always a theme. What can the National Assembly do, except that at the end of each session, by voting, they confirm by majority or challenge the points of the draft agenda whether they are legislative proposals, whether they are individual proposals on human resources? Mrs. Komic, vice president of the Assembly, and I, with many compliments last night, were honest, reminded all of us that in a situation where we had found ourselves for the past two days, with a lot of passion, with the oath that the most important thing to do was to contribute to others by accusing us not to do this job, but to enter into disputes about the future and the past. It's all the usual in the congregation, but it's nothing new. What we reminded you of was that there was one moment in 2006 where all the parties sitting in the Assembly agreed before the session that it was very important to make one decision and to create the possibility for the competent authorities to continue to do their job. When the session began, it turned out that political appetites or one person made them work for two days. Finally, we found both MPs and political parties, something that was not a topic, but what was the key message in one and another presentation, that the solution from this could only be found by the National Assembly and that only by the consent of all parliamentary groups, positions and opposition in the National Assembly, was possible to complete that session at the moment when the state of Serbia had temporary authorities, had not yet taken over all competences, had not yet taken over the highest legal act, before the vote was called, and of course, what is constantly happening here, both in the economic and political crisis. The Assembly, therefore, can, but it is necessary, we have concluded together, one of us takes an adequate step in accordance with the law, to remind all of us that there are times in which it is important to first address priorities, and that there will be time for both a fight and a debate in the next period. The agenda for election of the DRI Council is welcome today, as this institution was created in the same year as we talked about yesterday, thanks to the MPs. In 2005, we were all in a situation where there was no country final report adopted for either 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003. So, the state has been functioning for five years, which has not submitted any final report, the final bill on budget spending. In doing so, it is the state that punished every owner of the kiosk unless he handed over the final account in March. There's always what's going on in the Assembly, called a government or one man in the government to suggest something, and that is the government's obligation. Neither this, nor the previous governments, of course, proposed any new institution that would be independent and would control it itself. There's always a way. I think that today there was an MP who was at the head of that party body, a multi-party body from the Assembly that was made of MPs of position and opposition, who then set out to create a law on DRI. It's literally from the beginning. Since they first educated what kind of institution it was, they defined themselves as a "vetminster" model that corresponds to our system, then agreed on the law, so that it would be adopted, that this new institution would become constitutional in the Constitution proposal, that, of course, in the next session, a state auditor would be elected and that today we would be able to choose for the second term the candidates proposed. Why is this important? Because part of the fight and the debate, which is extremely legitimate, has been related in previous days to the abolition or change of functions of some institutions that were created in the previous period. For a reason, there was a difference of concern. Of course it's always been about money, because that's what's currently making all the layers of the population hard and, of course, every political option wants to profit from it. But institutions aren't primarily money. Some institutions are too expensive if they don't work. Some of them are too expensive because they don't work well. The state audit institution in the previous period showed, unlike some others created in the meantime, whether as agencies or as funds, how one institution, when formed, must take care of the context, we talked about yesterday, of the society in which it is located. What I would like to praise, and that also means that we support a proposal to elect members of the State Auditing Institution Council, is that, not an auditor, not one man, can change it, as not one member of the Government or Government, or one minister, however falsely we represent that only they will immediately change everything and that it is up to them alone, not, but the whole institution, all the auditors, have defined themselves in the previous period, and I could see it in different examples, and also in the ministry that I have accepted to run for a short time, to work in the following way. In a country where, of course, laws are constantly changed, and new amendments to the laws that are proposed, and then the entry into force of these laws, let's say, in 2010, but by 2012, they can't really get in, because late sublaws or procedures under sublaws, the auditors, and we saw that, were doing the following. They went to the institutions where they were reviewing, familiarizing themselves with the facts, calling on those concerned, asking questions – why it was done, giving recommendations on how to remove something, while opening up to those reports that arrived at the end and often had 200 – 300 sides and for institutions that employ only 50 employees and audits were carried out for only a year, in detail in those reports explaining that the auditors themselves were often unable to identify between what the institution claimed, which is that she had done according to one valid letter of law by making some act or decision, and her own obligations of the State Auditing Institution to indicate that there was another parallel legal solution and that it was difficult to establish the right decision, which would be more, because there was no such hierarchy. In this way they did two things, they educated employees who had laws and relationships, and everyone who entered an institution knows that they often had a large number of professional and quality people, who had neither the will nor the willingness, nor the willingness, nor any of them asked them to get acquainted with the changes in the laws relating to their area, and often those institutions were their proposings. When you're building a new and so important institution, you have to be considered both by the facts and by the context in which you're in, that the result is good. It's not the first thing if there's going to be a misapplication or if there's going to be a higher one, such as criminal charges against those over whom the audit has been carried out, it's much more important how this whole procedure goes. Ministers who complain, one complained to me a few years ago – what kind of a way, he never said, was not prosecuted or prosecuted, and now he has a criminal report, so he had to appear in court, I told him he had never been a minister before. As you know, the transition does not compare a government that is better, but compares a government that is worse. It's just, it's part of fate. It is a fine example that today or in the voting day we will be able to have one so established, but such a leading institution, such as the DRI, encouraged all together, and that will then be the Parliament's decision, to continue in such a way as to prepare the ground for something that will certainly not come soon, and that is possible for independent institutions to control, report, commit violations, independent of any political commitment. The third segment of what I wanted to tell you today refers, now completely, to one of the most stable institutions, the oldest and most important institutions, like the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. A little over a month ago, we all talked about amending the law regarding this institution and, of course, we argued. As you know, I am both in the debate and in the vote, supporting amendments and voting for amendments, because it is terribly important, whether you consider yourself a position or an opposition, to do what you say and do, so since I have had objections to some resolutions of that law, I have also voted in favour of an amendment signed by several MPs. I suppose it is more important for them to say which parliamentary groups they are from, but these are just the fellows Mrs. Micic, Mr. Milic, Andric, several of them have signed the amendment. I pointed out, of course, the necessity of all of us not to disrupt in speech what is terribly important and what is so slow to achieve, and that is the importance, stability and independence of this institution. After that, we joined the governor's election. I've met Mrs Tabakovic three times in my life, and we've exchanged so many compliments in this assembly room by several sentences, but it was a great pleasure that the MPs who were with her in the meeting brought so many compliments to her account personally and, of course, voted against her political options. I admit, if someone had asked me for the governor's proposal, and I myself, and I said it myself, and that's how I'm acting, the protector of all governors in the last 12 years, I really wouldn't have thought to suggest you first. But it was a pleasure just today, when you were talking about candidates, and all three candidates were both professional and experienced, with great experience and in difficult moments right in the NBS, at that time also talking about some human characteristics, and not just about professional ones. I want this opportunity, personally, to convey to you one impression that I have gained here in the Assembly that during the debate on the law, or amendments to the law, and during the debate on the proposal for governor, many MPs feared the People's Bank in you. At that time, I felt that the opposite should be done, for anyone who comes to the governor's post to fear the tradition of independence, the vast mechanism and the obligations through which this mechanism is used in the National Bank itself. That's why I would take this opportunity first by thanking these candidates for suggesting that respect for, and independence, and independence of the National Bank for not being the same. I would like to draw your attention that many things will not depend on the governor in the future, but on the institution and this assembly. Just give me a few seconds. Thank you all for understanding. If God forbids you find yourself in a situation, perhaps for a good reason to print the highest-value note, say 10,000, as in the previous period the 5,000-dollar note is printed, so Slobodan Jovanovic is also before rehabilitated put up this character, please let this character be Sava Tekelia, because there are different needs for people to fight, but often they fight because they don't know their own past, so they keep pointing out that someone important, because he was in the 20th century or he was 19th century, or he was from the south or the north. There are important personalities in both 17 and 18, and in the 20th century, and if we do not show how much we respect each of them for a common institution, we will certainly not allow this institution to continue to perform its basic function, and part of that function to be in constant dispute with that policy that is being conducted in finance. Thank you very much. That's what I wanted to tell you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2060	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2061	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mrs Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, please do not propose to Mr Markovic in parliament the appearance of the bills will become the subject of political negotiations and disputes as it has become and everything else and then we will no longer have new bills. Why do I say that? I'm not talking about it by accident. We have a few points here today, two of the most important, is the election of the Vice-Governor of the National Bank, the election of the DRI Council, and I think the atmosphere in which we started this session doesn't speak in favour of claims coming first of all from the ruling coalition that it is seriously committed to building independent or independent and regulatory bodies in this country, and in one case and another. You, Mrs. Kovac, have avoided speaking or refused to speak, or have not felt the need to speak about candidates for the DRI Council, if I am well understood as a representative of the Finance Committee. I don't think that's good, it's just that it's not possible to talk seriously not only about candidates, but also about everything the DRI has been up to now and what it should represent in the future, and you know that in these specific situations those who are proposed can practically not participate in the work, can't speak here or answer questions on behalf of or for candidates for Vice Governor, it will do Mrs Tabakovic as their promoter, and in that case the situation is a bit simpler. I'll talk about the vice governors first. You are Mrs. Tabaković, it seems easy to go over, in fact, the most important topics in this situation, which is the way the National Bank Act was changed, the way you were chosen and everything that happened afterwards. I totally agree with you that we shouldn't throw a shadow at the quality of the candidates, their biographies are excellent, some even impressive, and we don't see any problem in that. The Liberal Democratic Party has always supported such a type of candidate. Some of these candidates we even supported at a time, or their concepts, some parts of their proposals, at a time when they were members of the government, ministers, I mean, first of all, Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic. But that's not what this is about. The greatest shadow of future work, the position of the people you're proposing for the Vice-Governors are true politicians or political parties, or you are their representatives. I think before a serious discussion about biography, about how future vice-governments you've proposed will work, we need to clarify a few of the previous issues. In fact, you proposed these candidates about twenty days ago to this House, perhaps a little less, although I remember the President of Parliament right after that has scheduled an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to which we should have elected the Vice-Governors. That session has been cancelled and cancelled twice under very strange circumstances. In public, various doubts and different interpretations of the reasons why so have arisen. I think we need to hear from you here an explanation that stopped as well as from representatives of the parliamentary majority with that election, because what we heard at the time as an explanation or justification, in the meantime, proved to be incorrect. For example, it seems to me that Mr Ilic, as representative of the URS parliamentary group, spoke of the party insisting that the debate be postponed for a while, while selecting the National Bank Governor's Council, to be made, to adopt the Statute of the National Bank, and then all these elections be held at the same time or when all the necessary documents are prepared. That didn't happen in the meantime. It was not possible, since by law the Statute of the National Bank adopted by the Board of Governors, and then it was confirmed or voted by the National Assembly, so that we would actually create a vicious circle, we could never complete all these elections. Meanwhile, the election, proposal and election of the National Bank Governor's Council were announced ahead of this session, in the end it did not happen. We as a parliament, members of the Finance Committee were particularly placed in an almost incredible position a few days ago. So, the session was scheduled for 12 hours, expected to present a proposal for President of the Board of Governors, and then there was no session. We were all expecting when from Budapest, Hungary, Mr. Jelasic would join in and tell us what he had decided. Before him, a spokesman for ERSTE bank reported to us that Mr. Jelasic was unable to do business because of his business obligations, or is not ready to take over the responsible job. Such disorganization, leaving room for different interpretations, insinuations in the public, is constantly creating tension between political parties of the ruling coalition, that always someone is looking for a place to compensate for voting on another candidate, casts a serious suspicion of the otherwise impressive biographies of the candidates we are supposed to talk about here today. So, nothing happened in the meantime, except I'm assuming that your MP group of the URS or some other political party was allowed to receive some sort of compensation in the processes related to the National Bank, or some other segment of the state for possible dissatisfaction with some human resources. If that is not so on you is Mrs Tabakovic to reassure me and to reassure this parliament, and what is more important to the public. This also has a decisive impact on the public's attitude towards future vice governors and on the attitude towards future moves and policies of the National Bank. Unfortunately, you, by your decision to amend the laws you passed a month ago, a month and a half ago, brought parliament into question, that is, the issue of the governor's election, which is still being debated by the political debate and parliament. When you establish the power of parliament to elect a vice governor, you inevitably transfer that issue to the political sphere. The Liberal Democratic Party thinks it's better that the governor, when he's already elected, has the right to form his own team, to be fully responsible for him. On the other hand, it might have been better if we had been different, or if you had organised this agenda differently, the agenda of this session, and maybe this point of election of the Vice Governor was about all those laws that we talked about in the last three days. Somehow more natural, the issue is related to the country's economic policy, perhaps it was a good opportunity for Minister Dinkic and Governor Tabakovic to sit here at the same time, to answer the questions of MPs, and then perhaps we know more precisely what will be the country's economic policy in the next few months or a year. I say that by chance, because even in this draft budget rebalance we are talking about Mrs Tabakovic these days, there are some different numbers or different projections compared to what you say or speak as governor of the National Bank. There was no way we could have talked about it in the last few days. The budget rebalance was made at the screening, at the show, that annual inflation will be 9.1%) this year. I think that at one of your first, or first press conference, you gave a different forecast of how much inflation would be, and that your formulation was about to be, and I quote exactly - there won't be much over 10%. It won't be much above 10% and 9.1%, it's not a small difference. I'm afraid we don't get into a situation where we have in some next budget or final budget account different numbers, so we can discuss again who cheated on who. Speaking of the final bill, Mr. Markovic here made one mistake. So it's not true that they weren't adopted, that they weren't made, that the state's final accounts weren't adopted, I assume he's referring to the final accounts of the 2000-2003 budget. It is, in fact, the only time this parliament adopted such laws, the last, I think, final budget bill for 2002. In the period after that, either no final accounts have been made, or the parliamentary majority has not considered and adopted them in this parliament for several years. It is something that is obviously a fact, only when Diana Dragutinovic, the current candidate for Vice Governor, came to the Ministry of Finance, that practice was somehow re-established, but I say again parliament was not in a position to discuss these things. I say again, you've gone over all these criticisms. You said approximately, that many have used the debate on amendments to the National Bank Act and your choice, your appointment to show some other dissatisfaction, that in the meantime these criticisms have not been justified. I think life, everything that's been going on, is convincingly denying you. I'm not even talking about what your first moves were like. I'm talking about the impressions that have been put on paper and translated into official decisions of different, international institutions, if you will. You know what's going on, what's going on and what's still going on with the country's risk assessments, and that's very important in our situation. You know what the IMF says, other institutions, the European Commission. They all express a very serious concern about the future position of the National Bank, especially in view of the atmosphere and how the amendments to the law are imposed. You can't deny that fact. You may even be able to deny it with your work in the next months and years, but the damage done at this point is irreparable. It reflects on every segment of our economic and then our whole life. That impression, that belief, that behaviour of the ruling coalition that causes such adverse consequences are obvious. You can see it every step, you see it every week when state records are sold, and you see that your announcement that inflation will be not much above 10%, but at the next auction of state records. Our papers aren't great, the interest was either big or huge, those who buy know what kind of country they buy and what the state buys them for, and that it's in a state of great need, but a few days after that, of course, investors know about what inflation is going to be like without your pessimistic announcement, but then the state papers reached a rate of almost 16%, 15.99% at the last auction. It is a disastrous data, and it is to a good extent the consequence of the economic policy of the previous government, the economic policy announced by this government, but, above all, the psychological belief that this is a unstable country where everyone, including the issue of governors, policies, concrete behaviour of the National Bank, the political issue, that is, the issue of guessing between parties that are coalition partners in the current government. You're saying you're not going to have any criticism, no proposal is considered an attack on the independence of the National Bank. I may be able to trust that you personally won't understand it, but the system of the National Bank, the system of banks, finance is a very sensitive system at all. You know that he responds to every announcement, every joke, every cry of the Prime Minister or any other official of power. I'm not sure you'll be able to resist it, I'm not sure you'll be able to do it with your team either. Finally, at this point, you have a situation that only today you are proposing to the vice governors, that we don't know until the end or how many vice governors the National Bank will have, I assume that this issue will be settled by the Statute, the law says from two to four, now you're proposing three candidates. The MPs in this room know that, you know that even better, the question and number of vice governors is not an irrelevant question, they are not yours, so to speak, assistants, they are people or officials of the National Bank who are in charge of very specific matters, for very specific areas in the work and policies of the National Bank. It also depends on how the National Bank will be organised, none of it is possible without the statutes. At this point, you can't adopt the statutes, right, you don't have a Board of Governors. Three members of the Board of Governors withdrew the moment you were elected, the new composition of the Board of Governors cannot choose, obviously, either because you cannot find candidates, or because you cannot achieve political consent within your ruling coalition. As long as you're here, I'll use that presence to help this House. You've probably managed to track down this situation in the last few days where the controversy in public has opened up about how much this country's public debt was at the end of last year. The state auditor talked about it, he's not here today, we can't talk to him about it, we can talk about it, but you can help. You have been a longtime member of the Finance Committee here, very active, and when the reports of the Council of the State Auditing Institution were discussed, and I believe that, as I do, you remember that this has been discussed in the past few years, and especially at the end of last year when the draft audit of the final account, i.e. the 2010 budget, was prepared, that the auditor at the time before the representatives of all the political parties in this Parliament on the Committee on Finance, in the second building of Parliament, spoke of major disagreements and major disputes. You and some other members of that body talked about it. It is amazing that this attitude has appeared so aggressively in public, or this belief only today. It can be something more precise today in terms of numbers, but I think a serious shadow and a question of choice in the DRI is throwing that situation away. I do not think it is particularly correct that the state auditor several days before the procedure that implies reelection or re-election, insists on it or to be used to prove charges against the former government about how it was cheated on the budget, how the public debt is misrepresented. Mr. Sretenovic did not speak of it so publicly a year ago or in the past few months, he did not so strongly highlight all these negative findings from his reports. Now he decides to trust Mr Dinkic, and then Mr Dinkic announces it to the public. I think that this is a very dangerous situation and that this is also the result of this atmosphere, where candidates, current officials of independent regulatory bodies, have some kind of need to show some kind of constructiveness to the new government that should choose them for parliamentary majority, and that criticisms only relate to those parts of the former authorities of which their choice no longer depends in any way. In previous reports of the State Auditing Institution, there were many negative findings. All ministries in the previous, or almost all ministries in previous governments were listed as parts of the state that violated the law, to be fair, the Ministry of Finance due to its established procedures most rarely and to the smallest number of cases. There's no public record of that. The state auditor, so far, doesn't insist so much on them. We have never opened a serious debate about how it is possible that JAT Airways does not pay in a neat way even the daily market it achieves. How we have come to the situation that this parliament gives the guarantee of the Jat Airways loan with the terms of the contract, that is, with the promise of JAT that, among other things, it will rent two planes and thus restore its fleet. Then JAT Airways, using that money that will eventually return the budget, or citizens of Serbia, because of course they will never be able to pay off that loan themselves, spends that money in a different way in the current business. It's a pretty serious situation. One loan was 51m euros, another of 10m euros. See how much interest we'll pay on that loan. Nothing happened after that. Discussions on the State Auditor's reports mainly ended at press conferences, on those announcements that some ministers were reported for a misdemeanor, but after that there was no substantial conversation, there was no political will in the country, perhaps not even in the public, but I would say no to the DRI itself to talk more seriously about those things that are very important and what systemic character, which is talking about the question, or trying to answer the question of how our budget is conceived at all, why there are so many public procurements. Mrs. Tabakovic, you, your party, were trying to talk about it. Is the problem itself that there is a violation of the law when public procurement is carried out or is the system simply so done that you have too much public procurement, and then too much arbitration and too much space to spend money on Serbian citizens not only in an illegal way, but in an inefficient way? I think it's a much bigger problem than these cases that involve breaking the law. I did not get the impression, not from the atmosphere in parlametre, nor from the way Mr. Sretenovic acted in the previous days that there was a serious will to break off with that practice or be different. We still have these bombistic announcements that are kind of timed when they can go public in an attractive way, but there's no serious depth work. That's why, Mrs. Kovac, I resented that you didn't even explain the proposal here, or the candidates. So, you know, LDP didn't propose candidates for the Council of State Audit Institutions. We generally think that it is not the best way to choose officials from independent regulatory bodies to be proposed by political parties, i.e. parliamentary groups. It has been our position since the time of writing and adopting or imposing the 2006 Serbian Constitution. I think that attitude is quite consistent, although we have always had a lot more respect for those institutions than those who, in political terms or political decisions, created them and those who participated in proposing and selecting those people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2062	Thank you. I wanted to apologize. As you can see, I was given the authority to chair the Assembly today, simply, but if you want, there is the Vice-President of the Finance Committee, who attended the session of the Finance Committee and can give you further explanations about the election. The choice was made according to procedure, in accordance with the law. The word is Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2063	I'd like to thank my colleague Gjuric. Just because of the tone and the way you've discussed it, you oblige me to answer each of the questions, giving, normally, a positive connotation to your discussion, so I'll start with the last questions, so I'll go to the first ones. First of all, I agree with you that it doesn't matter how many public procurements there are, but whether they're consistent. Yes, in the DRI description, it is an obligation to consider first and foremost the wholeness of the procurement, as we as the Assembly have often said that it is not for someone to sign a debt loan and to come to us only on the over, but to see if, as I am, today, when I am able to put my signature as governor on an international loan, where microfinance is given, but they go through the NBS as my own agent, I say, yes, I will sign the technical part, but it would be the least necessary to get a report on how similar funds have been used, whether there have been abuses, controls, so that I can continue my work with the international institution and stand behind that authority of the National Bank, which I represent by my signature. Often you and I used to put that remark on DRI. The defense was that they weren't in full capacity, that they didn't have enough people to do it. Like you, I expect, first of all, to let the citizens of Serbia know whether ten toners have been purchased in a company, i.e. a printer or copied at market and lowest price, whether so many toners, printers should have been bought at all, and whether the procedures should go that way. That level of thinking I have here. So total transparency for the situation, not just for the piece that you're given in jurisdiction. Speaking of debt, you know, that's what I'm saying today, the NBS has the best methodology for tracking total external debt by lenders, by what private debtors are, what commercial debtors are, etc. The dispute has always been with the Ministry of Finance, that their tables and data differ, and today I try to bring it into harmony. How is that possible? Who knows how much money is given for the purchase of software, for multiplication, for electronic equipment of all organs, and the NBS and the Treasury, where the NBS manages the funds of the Ministry of Finance, they give payment orders, and they are not networked in such a way that they can download data directly from each other so as not to distinguish data. The practice of hiding something is short-term and we have discussed it in the Ministry of Finance several times, but not just me and Diana Dragutinovic, today's candidate for the governor's jokes, then as leaving as finance minister, said the data differed and that the very conscious government is reducing some expenditures, some revenues are overestimated to make themselves more successful. I am convinced that from this position that I am in, without debt to anyone but those who voted for me, and when I say those who voted for me, I see citizens in the representatives of political parties, obliging me to owe no one any coffee, no furniture, no promotions, no progress in life. I can work, ask others to work only in accordance with interests and possibilities. You say you're against the way political parties propose members of the DRI, the Council, but also the Anti-Corruption Agency, RATL and all independent bodies, yes, but that's not the case with us alone. On one of the first trips to Brussels, I asked the question of how to overcome this imperfection of democracy, to suggest an independent man, what makes a man independent. It makes him dependent if someone pays him. So you owe it to anyone who's done you a favor in your life if you feel you need to restore it to the position you're in. The way we propose is similar to ours everywhere, and it's not good. As we change it, I guess someone will find a better way, but there's no one else to come and propose or give a license to a man that he's independent and doesn't owe anyone anything politically. I'm not just talking about material debts. You know that these immaterial debts are always much more difficult to promote certain services that can't be recorded or measured somewhere. In this assembly I asked a parliamentary question that I had never received an answer from the directors of the Privatisation Agency what they had and what they had after leaving their posts, how much tax they paid today, how much they used to pay. So anyone who can't prove the origins of property by regular means is likely to have acquired something illegal. How am I looking at the governor's position? As always, very informally, I will answer you most directly. I'm getting a question from journalist "News" this morning, she says -- you said that sent to the information store and I say -- yes, sent in general to the streams and to the creation of information can very much abuse it. He says -- by the trace of what you've said, we've come up with information, and I quote the journalist "News", that some firm in Novi is now four times a month publishing data on how the exchange rate is going to move so the exchange offices know what to do, that information is being paid 50 euros. I answered her the following way, both to you and to the public of Serbia - that information must be handled by the competent authorities. I don't deal with street executives or street dealers, I want to deal with the creators of this information, those who create conditions that can be predicted and traded with information. Whether there is a small and initial success that gives me the right to ask you to trust what happens to the course back a month, I will say – perhaps, you will say – I don't know, and I will say – we create liquidity in the National Bank in accordance with the needs of the market, not according to the needs of any interested group and I am confident that we will succeed and I will work in this way, so as long as it lasts. So let's not fool anyone by throwing dust into their eyes by dealing with tiny contractors, and pretending that we don't know that someone else is, in fact, very important, perhaps, possibly, possibly in agreement with someone in the National Bank is doing it. The mechanisms to control it we have some are imperfect, we will perfect them. They're imperfect in the control area, they're not ideal in the insurance sector, and in the banking control part, there's no need to talk about how much that part of the job stayed in the seal, promoting the National Bank only in the sector of course and monetary operations. This must pay attention to where I promise the Assembly, the public and the citizens of Serbia that, in accordance with the importance of information and the need to protect secrecy, you will have, at your request, a closed session or an open session of the Finance Committee, where you will receive all necessary information. The Council has five members, according to law four are proposed and discussed with them, statements of consent have been received, we have biographies, I am proud of all four candidates who will soon be adopted in this house. I don't want to tell anyone's name. This fifth one that will be instead of Mr Jelasic, we will wait for him and we did not do so at this session, because with that advice that he has resigned, I am working with the most human being, we have sessions, we make decisions, although they have resigned and I can tell you that there is an extremely human understanding and co-operation. We did not want to put pressure on the fifth member, an extremely important body that will now bring about a foreign reserve management strategy. But the remark that came from abroad generated that the operational affairs of foreign exchange reserve management would carry out the advice chosen by the Assembly is pointless, because strategy and operational measures are two different things. The operational measures will work and bring in the executive board, and its members are the vice governors we choose today. What were the IMF remarks and what was left in the end? For the truthfulness of the information, please inform the Serbian public who has not read the final statement. Of the many objections, there was one that there was no evidence. Support for monetary policy management has been defined precisely, all dilemmas about the supervision of banks have been eliminated and are therefore not even mentioned in that IMF statement and there is one sentence left that the way the law was passed has compromised independence. I asked Mrs. Zuzana Morgasov, give me at least one proof that in Serbia this is the only law to be applied, and has already done damage. So many have been brought in, and you have an objection not to apply, give me practical proof of where the damage occurred. I'll also say how the ratings count. I have the impression that so many people here have generated negative information that simply, to preserve the reputation of those who have placed such information, there is that formulation as the only observation, but without proof. We cleared up in three days of conversation and in a very open and, I must commend the lady who led that technical mission, her detail, her attachment to hear every argument and to raise her suspicion and finally to say we've cleared up a lot of things. In a hurry, the law does not mean that the solutions contained in the law are quick and defined. There were several people working in the draft law, two of whom are in control and control of the banking system, as a life-determination. Ms. Zuzana Margasov of the IMF had the opportunity to meet, see and hear arguments and therefore no objections to this part, i.e. the total changes that the law contained. The speed of adoption does not mean poor quality on the contrary. As much as it took to change that part of control tells stories, not to talk any further about "Agrobank" where there really is a problem and that something didn't work very well in the control of the banking system. Is it possible, under the earlier law, to take over the governor, you from the Finance Committee and someone who works very studioly in his work, you know best that it was almost impossible. Even the resignation, which was filed here, was not given to the Board of Governors, so as such for the National Assembly, it was not even the documents for discussion, but rather the choice we made under the new law. I'm not happy that I came under such circumstances as the governor, because I'm a man who doesn't care to come to any function at any price that is doubt, not anyone else. However, I am sure that very quickly everything that was meant to be a burden to me at that time will actually be an advantage because we have openly messed up all the drawers in the National Bank of Serbia, some of which have been keyed, started to open and to talk seriously about them. This large and sublime institution was too closed, a museum that was open to citizens, in other parts it was quite closed, where with conscious intent it was created an illusion of over-experienced expertise on the topics that eventually came down to how much war today is on the one who took credit in Switzerland and how much one of his salary will be able to pay for its war and to have someone say today – so wait, I didn't force anyone to take the war in Switzerland, as if someone had gone to gambling. I would not say that this is how it can be said about things that concern the ultimate consequences of monetary policy and our work here, because in this house I have learned to see every move in its ultimate application in the real life of Serbian citizens. Help in this, a debate like this one. Have some banks replaced the Swiss into dinars and we force dinar borrowing. Why some are not and whether the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, which was brought here, will be applied consistently, as applied and how participants in the financial system behave. I will try to establish a practice for you to be informed and for the beginning I have asked the Bank's association to provide information to them and first within the Bank's house to see what the most citizens of Serbia are complaining about in this system which is not the National Bank for which they associate only with international financial institutions, which has a longer list of international travels, lectures, arrivals, departures, but the citizens of Serbia who suffer losses when it is being spent by the National Bank, whose government should have won the National Bank, must also know where every dinar spent at the National Bank, whether and why foreign reserves had to be spent. I, as I asked the former governors to do, will now be in a position for you as colleagues and will always feel the most comfortable in that skin, the changed place of work will not change me, I will provide information about anything that does not penetrate the law as a state and official secret. What else can I tell you? All that's created from here as a downgrade is in the realm of expectations that some activities will take place. So you can't say -- there's a measurable category based on which the rating is decreasing. And we're like the National Bank because of Bloomberg as the only institution here to create public opinion, and thus the decline in ratings, we've asked that for example. and the Iposos Agency, which has begun to deal with it, to compare their data and see if we can allow us to be the subject of use, not to use one stronger word, any agency that creates public opinion, in the same way that the public is trying to make the work of the government that has come to a rather inherited debt, which it cannot, can't cope with now with so many unspeakable minuses. As governor, I go to every government because they invite me, because that's where I belong, because there's something I have to talk about and discuss. I will not belittle this House or my government, because it is the interdependence of everything. But if I can reach agreement there with Mr Dinkic, to remove from the government's agenda a report from the Deposit Insurance and Rehabilitation Agency for Agrobank, I don't see why "Blic" should make up a topic that we disagree and that their journalist apologizes directly to me that she didn't say it. I don't comment on that, because our relationships are more than professional. Let me finish, why is this on the agenda now, and not when it's announced? For reasons of savings and technical reasons, to not only be one point on the agenda, but with these 35, because we usually function as a team and with former vice governors and with the former Council and with those who are and who will be. As you can see, they are the same candidates and do not seek any reason for misunderstandings within the Government or the National Bank, which does not mean that we will think the same about some solutions, but as people, serious and mature, we will solve all misunderstandings, not misunderstandings of a personal nature, but misunderstandings of a concept, if there are, in the Government, on talks in the National Bank of Serbia, because we are the National Bank of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, we will indeed be, I will be, as someone who represents this house, but who thinks his colleagues are equal, in terms of function, in terms of decision-making, just as you said, we will be in this function and in the role of contributing to the most difficult moment for this country to develop, to start developing on savings, to promote and promote dinar borrowing. I am sure that, with the support of you here and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2064	Thank you. Mr. Djuric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2065	With all due respect for the way you said, I think a good part of what you said, especially this formulation that you've remained the same, that you won't change, that you'll speak the same way you spoke in this House, I think it's the most serious disqualification for the way you've been chosen, or for the situation that you're governor of the National Bank. I'm not talking about your professional qualities, but you're just a politician. That's what you've been doing for 20 years. You're thinking that way and you can't help but convince that conversation with "Blic" or "Evening News" journalist. It's natural for us who do politics. But when you went into position as governor of the National Bank, you can't do it that way anymore, because the consequences are very serious. You know how serious and expensive the consequences of announcing that control is in a bank. I don't mind doing it, but it has to be done in a more discreet way, without a constant need. You're not the loudest person to create that atmosphere. There are many who are louder than you. It's all about the front pages of the newspaper, the way you've now described it, when you've convinced the question of "evening news" and then you have all the media that are full these days of that story about inside information and how to create a course. This is not a society that has a serious tradition of a regulated financial system, commercial banks, etc. The panic that is created in this way, the belief that these are all thieves, that they are all dericoces, according to Prime Minister Dacic, can be easily created. Secondly, the creation of that painting can help one bank, and it can help other banks. This is not allowed in a normally arranged, functional financial system. You know it well. I'm not saying that you have personal or other motives for such a thing, but as much can be accomplished by creating a climate in which it is possible to know what the course will look like tomorrow... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... A lot can be created from the creation of this atmosphere that I'm talking about here. The last question – will you be a candidate for your party's vice president? That's a lot to talk about. I think it's okay to clarify that, simply because of all the stories that exist in the public and for keeping this position that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2066	Mrs. Tabakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2067	As soon as possible. You resent me for what I am proud of, which is that I am a man and that professionalism does not exclude honesty and measurement, where it is said – truth is not for everyone's ears. But I know perfectly well how to measure which part can be reported and whether control is a secret when you're already going to a bank. As some here had a dilemma that there were secret decisions that could be applied in secret. No decision, no control can be applied in secret. She goes public and the announcements you're talking about can't be attributed to me. I said it a little while, but you didn't understand. Religion rests on faith. Banking rests on trust and faith, but don't, as you mix independence and independence, mix trust and secrecy. Don't be under the obligation to keep something secret and secretly mixed with trust that means seriousness and keeping words. As I did, I will always perform because I am a person who, in her 52nd year of politics, has always performed as an economist and someone who has been a banker for many years and who is happy to get back to his job, I know perfectly well which of your advices or remarks I should receive, which you are trying to impose on me as a replacement of thesis. I am someone who learns and receives good qualities from all people today, but no one can convince me that I will now sit like many people in front of mirrors and convince myself that there is one god on earth and that another is sovereign in the National Bank. That's what got us here. I've remained in your debt for inflation information. What is above the target inflation 4 + 1.5 minus is the result of God and the election, God as an extremely cold period in February and drought until the other day, which no one alive can deny, and this second is the will of some other gods to spend huge money in the elections and to inherit the regulated prices that should now be raised and all these costs that must be shown are the result of inflation that is around 10% there, and I can't predict because sometimes the market reacts very unexpectedly, as much as we have the best economic models to design it for the future period. Because, economy, they wanted us to admit it or not, I'll repeat, it is a mix of history and meteorology. How many historical circumstances are repeated in the same way, others know. Speaking of politics, I've frozen my political function, and even if you don't like the fact that I have blue eyes, then you really have a taste problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2068	Thank you. Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2069	Why is that, Mrs. Tabakovic? I've never spoken to you or you in that way. There's no need to bring the debate to that level. I asked you, will you run for president of the SNS? You can answer me. The answer means two letters. Therefore, everything is fine, there is no need to comment on anyone’s physical appearance or color of the eyes and to translate it into this emotional field. But I think you did it again. You spoke again as a politician. Again, you spoke of mistakes that may or may not have existed and may be established in some procedure. In the previous term, namely the previous composition of the leadership of the National Bank, which is why you cast a shadow on your candidates today. Some of them were vice governors. I believe that you believe that they did not make mistakes, or that they could not stand out in that system in which there was a sovereign. I assume you mean Mr. Shoskovic, who must have been a dictator, or believed he was the master of everything in the National Bank. If that's how you perform, I think you're jeopardizing both the position and credibility of the people you're running for, as well as when you convince what they did in the past, how they said goodbye to the government when they were ministers, what they claimed about public debt, etc. I don't think that's right, and I'm asking you today if we talk any further, or in your term as governor, when you come here, that we don't talk about eye color that way. It may be appropriate and common at government meetings, especially in this composition and with this prime minister, but please don't do that here. I've never done that before.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2070	Thank you. Mrs. Tabakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2071	I understand that you spend a lot of time here, and you can't follow the expert literature. That, as the incomes were overrated and the undervalued expenditures were announced in the quarterly "Monitor", number 31, two years ago. It's not about forgiveness, I'm talking about professional literature, a magazine, which was introduced in time by Cori Udovici and who is someone who popularises economic science. It's just, I'm no longer willing to give you a chance to bring an argument from an expert on something else. But you don't like the way we talk, the way we talk. I just don't want to like myself. I have a desire to do a good and useful thing. I have a chance, I have a team I want to do it with. What you're saying is whether they're guilty and who I mean by that, you know I rarely speak of names. I'm talking about principles, phenomena, those that are harmful, those that are bad, and I want to correct them. In that sense, I will never change, because people do what circumstances allow them and legal conditions. I said – we will change what was not good, that we would be at the service and parliament, which is our only supervisory authority, and all the good and customs in that building, in that institution, all the good ways in which we discussed, conducted monetary policy, kept and improved. That's how I end my discussion with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2072	Thank you. The word is Miroslav Petkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2073	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs Tabakovic, you have been chosen in this house to do your job in accordance with law and profession, and our job, as MPs, is to control the work of the NBS. That's why I won't interfere with your proposal for a vice governor today. You choose your team whose work we will discuss in this home whether it is good or not. Today's presentation will be dedicated, first of all, to the DRI, because of the importance this institution has. The Democratic Party of Serbia will support the election of the president and members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution and we will do so for a number of reasons. The first reason is that in the previous period we made a key contribution when it comes to the adoption of the DRI law. Those colleagues who have been in the parliamentary benches for a long time will be reminded, and those I will not know today with the following facts. The first step taken nearly 11 years ago, but the assembly's meeting at the time was unable to carry out the project. In July 2004, parliament renewed its initiative to pass the DRI Act. A task force led by our MP and then vice-president of the Finance Committee, Mr Radojko Obradovic, was formed. With all this in mind, the importance of this institution, that task force then decided to write the law right here in the National Assembly and be the fruit of co-operation as many MPs as possible and a large number of parliamentary groups. I would like to remind you that DSS, SPS, DS, G17 plus, the SPO and New Serbia have worked on this bill. The task force had the help of many domestic experts, but then some other institutions and the OSCE and the World Bank, and the Belgian Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors of Slovenia, the Canadian Court of Auditors, SIGMA and many other organisations, were involved in our work. During construction, suggestions from the then government, led by Vojislav Kostunica, were also taken into account. More amendments have been accepted by the MPs in order to make the law look better. We had special assistance from the Court of Auditors of Slovenia. I would once again like to thank Mr Igor Soltes, who was the president of that court during that period. After serious analyses and hard work, the DRI Act was finally passed in 2005. I point out all of this because I want us all here to be aware that DRI is one of the most important institutions in our country, which has not replaced any of the institutions in existence, but its task was, above all, to raise the level of parliamentary control of the executive government, to influence the fact that state money is being spent efficiently, economically and rationally. Of course, DRI should be one of the most important bodies in the fight against corruption. The question was then raised how strong this institution would be and how able to bring all this out. And then we spoke, as we are now saying, that the DRI will be as strong as parliament will help it. The second reason – as is known, we are a party that holds to the principle, which is always ready to agree with other parties when matters are important to the state, and the DRI certainly is. I am saying this because we continued this job in 2007 when the election of president and members of the DRI Council was, when we supported their election, in 2008 when we adopted the Rules of Procedure on the work of the DRI and in 2010 when we participated and voted in the amendments and additions of the DRI Act. The contribution of the DSS, like all other parties, is not only about the adoption of a law but also about supporting, when it comes to creating conditions for the institution's work. This support was received by this institution, so to speak, from all MPs 2010. A year. For DSS co-operation and agreement with all these parties, when it comes to important state matters, it has always been the right way, whether we were in power or as we are today representing the opposition in parliament. Corruption is the cancer of this society's wounds, and that's why the DRI has always had our support and will have it as long as it does its job responsibly and in accordance with the law. We have regularly followed the work of this institution and the reports submitted to Parliament, which we have all searched and accepted together. When it comes to the results achieved by the DRI, we are aware that it is not easy to assess, given all the problems this institution has encountered in its work. I remind you that in the first few years there were problems even with the rooms, so we remember well that DRI used a period of work in the National Assembly. During that period, she had very few auditors. If I remember correctly, only two top auditors in 2008. The problem was not only with space, but also with the salaries of the people who did the job. The law was amended in 2010 and the possibility of real development of the DRI was created. Also, the problem was the adoption of the DRI Rules of Procedure, but in 2009, we initiated and supported the DRI in 2009. The other day on the Finance Committee, we could see for ourselves and hear from President of the DRI Council what was done during the previous five-year term, which is on the loose. We have witnessed in the last two years the numerous reports that this institution has made and submitted to the National Assembly, a number of recommendations it has made to the audit entities. I think that 200 applications filed by this institution against responsible persons in ministries, public enterprises and local self-government. We could hear that, thanks to the work of this institution in Serbia's budget, more than 6.5 billion dinars were returned, that the volume of non-financial and financial assets was dramatically increased, that thanks to a large number of recommendations, a large number of institutions in our country had established internal control, i.e. internal audit. We have heard that the DRI of the six envisaged has established five sectors, that it is staffed, that it has excellent co-operation with the parliament as well as with international organisations involved in this business. All of this, I tried not to list everything that happened in the previous years, is the third reason why we need to support the work and functioning of the DRI. I do not want to be misunderstood today that my goal is to say that everything was ideal in the work of the DRI and it is evident that continued progress has always been, that DRI is practically one of the few things that we MPs have set up ourselves. From her creation to this day, she has had the support of all, or almost all, MPs and MPs. We hope that it will continue to be Parliament's main support in the future control of the executive government and in the control of budget spending. In that sense, I expect the new DRI advice, which we will choose tomorrow, to further intensify the work on these jobs in the coming period. Finally, I would really like to send a message to the President, the future President of the Council, and to all the members of the DRI Council, and to all the DRI employees, that the fact that, even now, they have had such broad support in this Parliament, which they had in the past, means only one thing - that we will ask them and in the future to ask a lot more, that they must be aware of the great responsibility that their work carries, that they must resist the pressures, that they are doing their job honestly, honestly, and in accordance with the law on the welfare of Serbia and the whole society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2074	Thank you. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2075	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished Mrs Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in the conditions of truly devastating effects of the global economic crisis, many theoretically and economically postulates are completely shaken, subject to re-examination, destroyed, and above all, we are witnessing that even one prevailing concept of the neoliberal economy is experiencing its complete collapse. As a result, a large number of countries in the world are creating specific answers and solutions, as it is clear that there is no universal solution to this form of global economic crisis. In such frameworks, the Republic of Serbia also needs to create its own solutions, respecting the specificities of our socio-economic system and development. In the last two days we've discussed it, we're facing a clear problem. The progress of public debt, which from the level of 29.2% of gross social product in 2008, increased to 45.1% of gross social product in 2011, and here are some forecasts that at the end of this year it can reach 60% of gross social product with a permanent growth in the budget deficit that can also be a momentum of public debt growth. I therefore appreciate that the measures we discussed with the budget rebalancing were also directed towards solving these problems. One of the biggest problems in the Republic of Serbia is the high unemployment rate and low average earnings, one of the lowest in the region. Therefore, the good messages of Prime Minister Dacic are fully understood and addressed to businesses – do not fire workers, pay salaries and pay the state tax. The measures we're talking about, I think, are on the verge of a solution like this and a policy like this. Of course, the most important question is what kind of path we're going to choose, what kind of economic policy we're going to lead. The Socialist Party of Serbia has never been for a theoretical economic policy, a policy that is not enforceable in practice. We are for a socially sustainable economic policy, a policy that can be a fruit of agreement between employers, trade unions and the government. So a well-conceived policy can only bring well-being to the citizens. So I see a kind of social sustainable policy in measures, first of all, concerning the return of value added tax to babies, the one-time aid to pensioners, so one specific socially endangered category of population, the retention of the lowest VAT rate in terms of food and products used by the widest layers of the population, and that is, through the non-freezing of wages and pensions. This certainly shows one determination that the new government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Ivica Dacic is leading a social sustainable economic policy. Such a policy in the very beginning and light on the tunnel that we can see in 2013 can only give the results that Serbia needs. First of all, in terms of the growth of gross social product, from today very tall and unimaginable perhaps for us. I am confident soon and at a level of five to six percent of gross social product and these are growth rates that can provide us with economic prosperity, better employment, better profits for all of our citizens. A key challenge for this policy to be conceived and implemented will be, above all, to achieve macroeconomic stability, i.e. price sustainability, the issue of inflation and course and, of course, we will need the economic situation to happen in the EU. I therefore need to use this time to prepare for Serbia to take advantage of its chance in the future, above all, through further strengthening of state institutions, predicting responsibility and thus creating a truly favourable environment in Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia is a key institution to achieve macroeconomic stability, to maintain prices, and the assumption of all of this is not incurring independence and independence of the National Bank of Serbia, certainly strengthening it. I would also like to welcome in this respect the strengthening of Parliament's supervisory role, which can certainly be a new quality in the work of the National Bank of Serbia. Representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia are absolutely against the unintended spending of state money, violation of the rule of law and in public mentions, announced or possible illegal shifts in state institutions. On the contrary, we are for clearly prescribed procedures and also against any pressures, so-called tycoons, businessmen, and with the aim of spending foreign reserves on implementing some of their projects. We are convinced of the expertise, competence and consistency of Ms Tabaković, we are convinced of her program, the proposals she made today for her associates, or Vice-Governers. We believe that this will make it possible for the National Bank of Serbia to manage the best possible way and correct all these objectives that I have spoken about and therefore we will support the proposal of Vice Governor of the National Bank of Serbia. When it comes to the DRI Council, characteristic of the previous period is primarily one continuity in improving the quality of work and results of DRI. It seems to me that one of the candidates at the Finance Committee's session has just said this key sentence – that there is always a better thing to do, but that the real thing is to see continuity and improvement in work. In 2008, in this period, I think a significant shift in the quality of work was made, in the number of audited entities, of course, as well as in the scope of the audited entities. We should recall the first report on the revision of the Republic of Serbia's budget, so only state money or the budget of the Republic of Serbia, not all other entities that should be subject to the law. Then we had a report that covered everything somewhere between 27% and 28% of the cash flows of that budget and a report that said that it actually had no opinion, i.e. without an opinion on the validity of public finances, respecting both the objective and subjective conditions that were at that point. After that, and after one continuity, which is another characteristic, was a characteristic growth in support of the work of the DRI of all competent institutions, and above all the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Finance Committee, in which I personally participated and the SPS supported development, work and results of the DRI in every respect. They resulted primarily in one staff and material strengthening of the DRI, which was one prerequisite for us in Serbia to now have one truly respectable DRI, a number of revised entities, a greater scope of the audit procedures and, therefore, already concrete and certain results. Of course, it was an important and legal framework, we have implemented amendments to the DRI Act, which have created preconditions for changing other acts, statutes and all that is necessary for the operation of the DRI. Without a doubt, Serbia needs justice, equality before the law, and citizens want to know how each dinar from the budget is spent, that those who behave irresponsiblely and arrogantly, steal the torment of the people, must respond to the competent institutions of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, the Socialists certainly expect a full contribution from the DRI in the coming period, and we heard at the session itself, here in the debate, that certain results have already been. So about 6.5 billion dinars were returned to the budget and a series of misdemeanor and criminal proceedings were initiated. Unfortunately, as the president of the DRI himself said, realisation, that is, not likely at a satisfactory level, is one of the problems that the DRI will be dealing with in future work. What is good is that today everyone is aware of the existence of the DRI and the certainty that it will be revised sooner or later. In the beginning, however, many were not satisfied with the results of the work and the way it was informed, but it was only the first report. Next, of course, in a series of next ones, which are much better, which are more extensive and with more subjects. That is why we need the greater coverage of the entities during the revision, because that is the only way we can make sure that our state, or public finances are in a credible position. Of course, by means of an advisory role, which is often marginalized when it comes to DRI, it is necessary on their proposal or suggestion to amend certain legal solutions, which are likely to take part in the work and through the DRI practice in the best way possible to see weaknesses, but can therefore define better legal proposals, which would significantly improve the state of our public finances in the short term. Of course, I expect the DRI to continue and I think so far that the number of factical functioning of internal control, internal audits in all those entities that the legislator predicted was not at a satisfactory level, and I believe that internal control, as one system of prescribed procedures, is the way in which cash flows take place in one entity, and an internal audit that needs to be "post-festum" to control, but also in some sense serves as a base of external audit, primarily one prevention for potentially non-intentional spending of funds and any abuse. I expect the DRI to make one move, first of all towards compliance controls, which means that it is not enough just to once to check whether a position has been purposely spent in accordance with the law, but would also be necessary to determine what the result of the spending of these funds, what is the benefit, therefore, of a new quality in the operation of the DRI. There will be more problems, above all, with the training of personnel, and perhaps some rooms that should be available to the DRI, but I think these are all the problems that can be solved. So many jobs for all the institutions of the Republic of Serbia to improve public finances, especially DRI. We expect, in this sense, that this continuity of one rise in the quality of work, which has existed since 2008, will continue in the coming period. In this regard, I believe that there is room for improving the work and co-operation of the DRI with all relevant institutions, and above all, respecting the results so far in the operation of the DRI, led by Mr Sretenovic. I estimate we've had good cooperation. We were on the Finance Committee discussing candidates for the DRI Council, talking in fact, and they assured us of their expertise. They assured us of their ambitions when it comes to working in the DRI. They pointed out their visions of working in the DRI and the list is in front of all the MPs. I would like to say that the vision of the future work of the DRI of the proposed candidate for president and members of the council in the good part also coincides with the vision, wishes and plans that I have presented as a representative of the SPS, and that is why we will, in principle, support this proposal from the president and members of the DRI Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2076	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2077	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be brief. On behalf of the LSV parliamentary group, we are positively surprised by such suggestions, and we think that this is finally a positive example, that even some professional people have to engage in certain jobs, and I'm glad that you are the voice of reason in your party, that you can't just put people in the executive positions, because when the reflectors are turned off and the cameras are turned off, someone has to do something. Especially in today's time when we're witnessing so-called. general differentiations where people are exclusively placed on party lines, not taking into account their expertise, which is of course not good, since the good part of the parties that make up today's ruling coalition have spent a great deal of time in opposition, so I personally hoped that some practice would change a little, but it is obviously not possible. As for the Vice Governor and you as governor of the NBS, I really wish you good luck, given the problems you will face and which are not small. Monetary policy, of course, is not only an instrument that reduces inflation or regulates the course, but is one of the instruments that generates the growth of economic activity in the country, which is in decline with us. We're also witnessing a decline in industrial production. You have very limited mechanisms for how you can achieve this, but I'd like to briefly just look back at some of the problems, at least we see that they're the key to what's going to have to be solved. First of all, I mean the financial sector, you've introduced the Bank Control Authority. Personally, I don't think it should have been singled out in a special administration, but today you have about 30% of the bad placements in bank activity. Some countries have taken this bad or toxic activity out of banks, long-term bonds, and have different methods. There are ways that this could be restructured, because practically our entire economy is blocked right now, because banks don't have the capacity to deal with what are more real sector problems than the problems of the financial sector. So far, the National Bank has made it impossible for us to trade both bad and good, by securitizing loans, which is the same practice in some other countries, and I don't know why, in particular, it couldn't work with us, because it's one of the mechanisms to solve existing problems. You also have a problem relating to government borrowing because banks today are more paid to lend credit to the state than to give the economy, because the state is in debt at uncompetitive rates compared to what the economy can handle. She's practically willing to pay any interest if the banks are willing to lend. I think that this is a practice that would also have to be analysed, because the economy suffers from indescribable large public spending and the general problem is something that I don't know how it will solve if the deficit continues to be as big as it is now, the state will continue to be more tempting to banks, in terms of financing, than it will be to the economy. Also, in Serbia, one of the things that you have proposed, but after the amendment has been withdrawn, to resort here also to something called quantitative layoff or that the National Bank can buy records of values emanating from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, it exists in other countries, which has been withdrawn from us, but in order to do so with us, for example, you do not have capital markets that function, operate in some other countries. I don't know why Belgrade failed to impose itself as a financial centre at least in the region. We don't have stock exchanges or ordinary securities, let alone some more exotic ones. For example, Warsaw has managed to become a financial centre, and if you look at Poland, unlike some other countries, it is much better to face the financial crisis, because these companies can come up with additional capital, where they have to address banks exclusively. In time, praises were made about the privatisation of the financial sector and banks were privatised to foreign banks, especially banks in Novi Sad, while these in Belgrade were left and declared strategic, which is very interesting, but today we are witnessing that the governor in Athens or governor of the National Bank in Austria has a greater impact on what our financial sector will look like, which is an extremely big problem for the current management of the National Bank. I think a huge mistake was made at the time because the only objective of privatising banks was to fill the budget, which is what we see today that exactly the countries from which these banks are coming are facing a crisis, a debt crisis, a sovereign debt crisis. We have a problem for them today that I don't know how you're going to solve, but it's a big problem. I'm glad you also mentioned loans in Swiss francs, there are 30,000 in Swiss francs. There are solutions, specifically in Hungary and Croatia where citizens are allowed to refinance these loans per course they take. I don't know if we were thinking about something like that, but I think it would be a very positive step, because citizens are in charge of their own time, there is something called personal responsibility, but the campaign that led this kind of activity was allowed by the National Bank and no one warned citizens about the problem that could arise. So, all in all, I wish you a lot of happiness both to you and to the vice governors that I think are qualified personalities, but the problem that's ahead of you is more than complex and I don't know if you'll be able to deal with it. I'll take a quick look at the DRI. I don't see exactly why the members of the DRI have been changed, especially why the parties propose them. So far, they have done their job well, and there is no need for some members to change. What would be very useful is not to deal with the production of affairs and not to deal with "pi ar" activities, but to do their own work, because they know what audit is and not to come out of the context of what is a state audit, because I think there is a very thin line between where they enter the evaluation of certain activities, specifically the state authorities that may not be in the works. In my opinion, it shouldn't be the people who are proposed by the parties, but to be strictly professional people, which I think they have been so far. We specifically did not propose that one of our members be placed in the place of DRI. So, in particular, we support the Vice Governor's proposal, and as far as the DRI is concerned, we're against changing the old composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2078	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2079	Just one sentence. I really have to thank you for the part of the discussion where you talked about the National Bank's affairs and the election of the Vice Governor, where I absolutely have nothing to add and take away, except for a little precision. In that version of the law that was deleted, that the records of the values issued by the authorities of the state, local self-government, could serve as a deposit under the earlier law, and now, because only on the secondary market can they be traded. We weren't even meant for any kind of government debt to rise to a higher level than the National Bank. Everything else, when we find the situation the same way, we can really easily come to a solution. I use the opportunity to thank the discussion that was not only a finding of the situation, but also a way to solve it, especially when it comes to citizens, some banks have gone out to meet and refinanced, i.e. replacing these loans, some have not. We're going to try to do that with others, but I'm glad you mentioned the fact that the National Bank didn't limit the borrowing campaign in the Swiss francs at the time, and that's how we want to look at the situation, not just to blame the citizens for being in some situation, because they believe the state, and the state is exactly the National Bank. Here, let's talk whenever we need to on the subject that's in this area, because I see they're close to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2080	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2081	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened carefully to the discussion of my predecessors and there are many things I can agree with, but there are things that cross the limits of good taste. The fact is, after a little more than a month, we are now discussing the National Bank again, namely the election of the Vice Governor of the National Bank, and it appears that no mention of the amendments and addition of the National Bank Act could be avoided. I can understand everyone's political struggle, every political desire, the goal, but I can't understand every way that political struggle is fought. One part, I was hoping it was left in our distant past, which is that certain political factors in Serbia close to the former leadership of the National Bank tried to bring in various international organisations, financial organisations, to influence this Assembly, these MPs that the law on amendments and additions to the National Bank Act would not be passed. When someone starts doing something like that, I ask if they're aware of how much damage they can do to their country, for the sake of their political interest and purpose, and that's what they're doing right now. We've spent a lot of time here convincing the most public, there won't be any printing of money. We've been here a long time convincing the public there won't be any hyperinflation. For a long time, we assured the citizens that there would be no loss of credit ratings that were linked to the change and addition of the NBS Act. The results for these little over a month tell us we were right. Someone may also be unhappy with the results, but given the state of our economy, the state of our banking system, especially when it comes to domestic capital, given our trade deficit, what speculative habits we have found on the financial market, I can say that the result is more than expected. At the time of the governor's takeover by Jorgvanka Tabakovic, the dinar course was according to the 119 dinars and seven pairs. Today, without spending foreign exchange reserves of 115 dinars and 25 - 6 pairs, do not blame me if I was wrong about a couple. It would have been a lot easier, and perhaps a much better result would have been the work of the NB, if it hadn't been for the pressure that was constantly going on during the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the NB Act. Today, some colleagues were reportedly touched again, and it's all nice, but why are you doing it like that? Now one of my colleagues has suggested he's not here, why should the governor propose to the governors of the National Assembly when they're his associates and he should choose them, and this is where he stands for independence? How will the vice governor be independent if he appoints and dissuades the governor? It is natural for one who appoints and resolves, and it would be totally immoral to law that the governor chooses and the congregation resolves. What do we have to do with that? What are we to endure the consequences of someone's bad judgments and decisions? If the vice - governors are elected in the National Assembly, it is the National Assembly who resolves them. And that's where you look at the independence of a public debate that needs to be conducted because of some NB procedure. And no matter what anyone says - the ruling majority can bring anything, and that today is Sunday and that 2015 is the year, that public in the work of the National Assembly protects the integrity of anyone doing their job properly, and there is a part of the independence of the NB. The second part of independence, is the personal integrity of the people who run the NB, because for free, we can make any legal proposal to give unlimited independence, their indifference, but all officials have their mandate, even the NB, and trust me that people who have a weak personality, will do anything for that political option they estimate that at the moment of re-election it will be in power, and thus endanger the independence of the institutions that run. We've had more than one opportunity to see in our past. As for the candidates themselves, I am pleased that the candidates who have already worked in the NB already have some experience, and as someone said – we hope that this is a good start of work for this ruling majority and new governor, because most of the parties that have come to this government from the opposition and are eager to appoint and appoint. Of all the parties that came from the opposition, it's the only SNS list from the opposition, and I have the right to feel a little bit called. To remind you, this same assembly has chosen Sasa Jankovic, who has already been in the post, director of Telekom, Mr. Culibrk, is also not a member of the SNS, otherwise he has been a Telecom worker for many years. Here we are now re-elected by the Council of State Auditors, so there is the same proposal for President DRI, and I don't think that's just the beginning, but a follow-up to a practice, which I hope will continue this practice and when perhaps some day the SNS is not in power. When it comes to the DRI itself, I can say that in the past, it has been very difficult to be a state auditor. I can say that it was often bordered by the courage of the people who wanted to do the state review the way the law predicted, with that moral and professional responsibility that those people felt. The DRI was founded five years ago, three years ago, solved its space in which it will work and only partially. One of his colleagues said he was glad that state auditors returned funds to the RS budget. That's nice of them, but they didn't bring it back because they wanted to, not because they didn't have to, but because they couldn't hire enough people to work for the DRI, so the results of the DRI and the control of public spending would be even better. This shows the relationship of the former regime as they viewed the public funds they had at their disposal. It is true that several hundred criminal charges have been filed, it is true that a few dozen criminal charges have been filed. For offenders, I think it's only seven or eight rightly solved, when it comes to criminality, none, which shows what kind of system we live in. One state authority can do its job right, but if the whole state as an institution doesn't work, then the question is, what kind of state do we live in? I think that the next period should continue to build institutions, should give and allow DRI to do its job properly, not only to control the former regime, but also the current government of RS, because the funds we get from citizens are limited, and budget users have a lot, with an economy that is in a difficult situation, so someone also talked about loans. If we are rationalizing costs, and the DRI business is not only looking at legality, but also justifying costs, we can reduce the pressure on budget users, reduce the pressure on taxpayers, and thus we begin to develop slowly that economic part of our society that is now, I can say in an extremely difficult situation. Due to already certain results and in the work of the NBS and results in the case of DRI, the SNS in the voting day will also support proposals for the selection of vice governors and DRI officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2082	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. We now move on to the speaker list according to order. The first speaker is MP Milan Lapčević. He's not here. ) The next MP is Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2083	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. An authorised representative of our parliamentary group has said a position on certain points, and I will talk about issues related to the election of the DRI Council. The first DRI mandate passed, they were elected in 2007, and the main issue is to assess how DRI worked. I think it's very important. Have they done enough? They did. Could they have done more? I'm sure they are. If we appreciate their work, we must compare them with other institutions in the world. Our DRI still lack 245 years to experience France, yet 145 years to experience Great Britain, another hundred years to experience the Netherlands and some other countries. I agree that when we go back, it's always easy for us to talk and it seems like we could have done some things much faster and much more willful, much more quality and much more efficient, but when we get into the experience that other countries have had, in the problems that other countries have had, then I have to say that in this area it's done quite for the conditions we're working on and the problems we're facing. We cannot boast that Serbia is the last country in Europe to get a DRI. In doing so, although these problems may seem trivial and insignificant, it took the state of Serbia two years to provide them with adequate space, as they sat in one of the offices in this building for almost two years and did their job. Some other issues that seem much easier to resolve are also not resolved. A colleague said that in the past 10 years, the Serbian Parliament has not adopted the final budget account. Now there are conditions, because there is a DRI. I personally and the DSS from the moment they were formed, as much as we could, in different conditions, we used to be the government, we used to be the opposition, but we gave them full support in parliament. What it is is that every independent institution must fight for its independence. There are legal solutions, there are legal possibilities, legal preconditions, but every institution is a good part and a creator of its own independence. The law stipulates that the DRI chooses parliament and that the Finance Committee opens the candidacy process and MPs or parliamentary groups propose candidates. In the process of making the law itself, it's been years ago, we've considered all these possibilities, how to allow the body to be truly independent. Do independent bodies really exist? Even if they are elected in the competition, someone must choose a competition commission, and then the question is whether the competition commission is independent. Independence is achieved in many ways, but there is no guarantee anywhere in the world that independence will be achieved only by good legal solutions. Depending on the context, it depends on both people and many other things. One of the countries most famous for independent bodies is the United States. One of the causes of the crisis that exists now is the work of independent bodies, which apparently were very independent, so they have pretty much destroyed the financial system under their independence. The State Auditing Institution is the most helpful body in carrying out the work of the National Assembly. The National Assembly only now, when there is a report on state audits, can speak highly of a number of issues. We've heard that the public debt issue will be open in the next month or two. The president of the DRI said he would stay out of this business, waiting for the report to be submitted and that it would be discussed. Careful reading of the 2010, 2009 and 2008 reports could also point to these problems that existed with debt. On the other hand, the public pays much more attention to what independent bodies say than to the MPs. In this congregation, I spoke at least 50 times about the public debt problem. That left no sign because the opposition MPs say so, and the opposition MPs, as a rule, do not support anything proposed by the government, and then that's how it's interpreted. There's a good state review, it's a good thing they ended their first term, and it's a good thing we're choosing others now. The Finance Committee is in a procedure implemented in accordance with the law. There may be a better one, but no one has suggested amending the law, no one has suggested a different, better quality and better solution. The committee carried out the procedure in accordance with the law. There were eight candidates and of those eight candidates, the board proposed to Parliament five. Our parliamentary group had no objections to the operation of the DRI. The institution was elected five years ago. They had various problems in the conditions in which they existed. With all the problems we share in this country, they've done the job. We believe that the current composition should continue its work. We've given support to all the candidates who've done this job so far. The Committee has partially accepted our proposal. Some of the candidates we proposed were proposed by the Committee. Some new candidates have also been proposed. How they will work and how they will prove their expertise and independence will show time. I hope that the Serbian Parliament will have much more understanding for the work of the DRI, as it is repeatedly said that co-operation was excellent in the previous period. The co -operation was excellent, but no report, no recommendations came to the congregation meal agenda. The state audit institution did three budget audits in the previous meeting. The Committee has addressed several recommendations to the Assembly, but there has been no debate, so I sincerely hope that this council of state audit meeting when it is elected will have far greater support for the assembly majority, that we will discuss here the recommendations and that these recommendations will be incorporated into legal solutions, because it is the only way we can prevent all of these things, which have been discussed in the last three days, from being removed in the future. That's the biggest benefit of the DRI. In the next period, it is certain that the state audit should not only deal with the issues of audit and regularity, but should just determine the review of the impact of the policies represented by individual ministers and individual ministries. It's that essential job that needs to be dealt with by the state audit and to see if the policies funded by the state's money give results to the public. That's the job that's the essence of the state audit work. I honestly believe that in the next term it will be done. Our parliamentary group will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2084	Thank you. Dear People’s MPs, in agreement with Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to adopt acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2085	The Honorable Presidency, Your Honor, Madam Governor, is on the agenda for the election of Vice Governors of the National Bank and the DRI Council. I'll talk more about the DRI Council than about the vice governors. In the end, it is the governor who proposes to both the vice governors and the whole team that we expect him to maintain financial stability, to take care of the exchange rate, and we believe that if the governor has already received trust from the congregation majority, he does not need to be involved in the choice of associates. As for the state audit, as my predecessor, counterpart Obradovic, the DRI was founded five years ago by law and the idea was that through the establishment of one of these institutions we would get in fact one organisation that would control how state money is spent, in which way the money of taxpayers is spent, and which was given to management primarily of people who have executive authority, but also of those who use the budget indirectly. Over the past five years, this institution has been through various birth pains. There have been a lot of problems with the establishment of business acts for the functioning of the state audit, about obtaining basic conditions for the work of the audit, there have been a lot of problems around the premises, not to say that there have been silent obstructions of the then ruling furniture that even auditors have room for work and that they can start doing their job under the law. We, as a parliamentary group in this House, have repeatedly intervened and talked about these problems, and over time, step by step, have been dealt with quite slowly, but I think we have reached the level where the DRI and through the establishment of the quality budget of the institution, but also through working conditions has the opportunity and opportunity to give its maximum. In these five years, more specifically, for the last three years there has been some concrete and quality work, the first two years have been spent more on what I was talking about, we have received reports on the control of various budget users, above all on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, on the accounts of the Ministry of Health, Spatial Planning, Economy, Defence, Finance, etc. The state audit site also includes reports on the control of cities' budgets and municipalities across Serbia and public enterprises. There were a lot of public stories about what the state audit found in the controls it carried out, whether it was the level of the ministries, whether it was the level of the cities and municipalities, the province, the province's Capital Investment Fund, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Vojvodina, public enterprises, at the state level of railways, roads, airports or local public utility companies. What we can't help but notice is that, in addition to the first information we've received from the state audit, there have been a lot of irregularities, there have been a lot of violations of the law at any level and any subject concerned, that after that, there have been judicial proceedings which, we think, either lasted a very long time or were still ongoing, or that these proceedings have been completed and that the epilogue has been such that it all ended up on some kind of misapplication and judgments concerning the misdemeanor level of responsibility. We don't think that's good. If there are already such violations and spending money beyond the legal provisions, that the state audit itself and the president of the DRI itself must be more determined, more courageous, in filing applications, but also in the sense of subsequent court proceedings, that, if necessary, punishments relating to such offences must be carried out and amended, so that we can put in order the level of money spending through the ministry or through public undertakings. We support the DRI's efforts to get these things to the end. We understand that they did not have a lot of problems within the framework of the State Audit, but we believe that through the new summary these problems will be removed and that there will be more courage to deal with these phenomena in the future. During the last two days here in the National Assembly, we heard some heavy accusations from former coalition partners about the abuse of the positions of individual ministers, that they were leaving money for some non-purpose matters, that the budgets of the ministries had been breached, so I'm sure that the state's audit will be dealt with, but not only to deal with, but to take appropriate measures, so that no one can think of a similar action tomorrow and bring the country into such a difficult situation. Today, Serbia is a country that is very high on the corruption index. I think after these allegations in the National Assembly they'll jump for another place. Today, it is said that nearly one-fifth of the budget is washed through public procurement in Serbia. We also expect the congregation's majority to eliminate these things through amendments to the Public Procurement Act, but also through more frequent and drastic control of state audits and greater penalties, because this is what we do for our future. If we don't cut the corruption that comes first from state institutions, and it's only authorized and obliged to do DRI, after all, if we have the Protector of Citizens, then the State Review could be called – the Financial Protector of State and Citizens. It is their obligation to deal more resolutely, more courageously, with corruption and crime, through this kind of control and through a bolder public approach to what is evident and where violations are so obvious. I believe that the new composition of the DRI Council will improve work and at least do its part of the job for Serbia to improve in the coming period, according to the corruption index. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2086	Dear People's MPs, I have another announcement for you. The session of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, called in 14 hours, is adjourned for 14.30 hours. The session will be held in the House of the National Assembly, in Hall III, on the first floor. The next speaker is MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2087	Thank you, Madam Chairman. These days, the media informs us mainly about the affairs they have made and whose holders are past authorities and tell us how the money of Serbian citizens was spent and how the officials treated that money. What are two drastic stories, I will use both of them as an insight into what I want to say later, is first, it is this great controversy, of course in the media, because unfortunately, by the time it comes to a parliament that is the only one who has the power to talk about it, it becomes some kind of already worn out and unusable story. So, the first story is that current Finance Minister Dinkic accused former Finance Minister and Prime Minister Cvetkovic of falsifying data on Serbia's public debt and that at the end of 2011, they were not 45.1, as the former prime minister said, but that they were 49.6%, and that after the campaign, the public debt rose to almost 56%. In figures, it is 135 billion dinars, or 1.2 billion euros. Not to enter now that Dinkic is denying that he knew anything about it, which is a little strange, because my colleague, Mr Obradovic, said that from here on out of this parliament, DSS MPs have at least 30 times asked Mrs Dragutinovic, who is now referred to as the Vice Governor of the National Bank, who was then the finance minister and all other finance ministers - what is Serbia's public debt? We've been given unmistakable answers. Of course, the unmistakable answers continued and later when Mr. Cvetkovic now wrote a denial on this and said that as they did not sell or release KIM down the water, so they did not make this much debt. Then the public was still interested in whether it was a matter of methodology or definition, or this one or that one. Most of the rest is very, very unclear what was actually happening. But what is clear is that generations of young Serbs will pay debts in the future, because it is obvious that the debt is enormous and that Serbia has become a truly overindebted country. Another example is what we have been saying here in the assembly over the past few days, which is that the former environment minister in this famous and unfortunate environmental fund spent a great deal of money as chairman of the Management Board and left a debt to this 5.8 billion dinar fund, which was, according to Finance Minister Dinkic, the reason for this fund to be shut down. I'm very skeptical of that claim, because I think, of course, that she's been looking into everything that's been going on in that fund, how the board of directors worked, but on the other hand, I've been advocating it and I've remained advocating that the Fund had to survive and no matter what. In the past term of the former government and the Ministry of Health has been apostrophe as the ministry of corruption, the area of which has the most corruption, so no homes of health have been closed, as already said here. It's a drastic example, so I'm using it again. So these are two drastic examples in the last week or ten days. Then the question arises – can the public have information, how can they have information, what information is true, who gives information that is half true, or are they not true at all? Of course, the place for all of this is one institution that was founded at a time when truly democratic institutions and independent regulatory bodies were founded. It's the governments of Vojislav Kostunica and then, it's the DRI. Of course, why was it founded? Well, to monitor how state institutions work, how money is spent on Serbian citizens, to regulate the issue of corruption, because it is early Serbian society cancer, unfortunately, continues. Although it is the priority of the former government to fight corruption, it has somehow gone wild, just at the time of this violent struggle against it and this very institution, the DRI is the place, the key where Serbian lawmakers and citizens should get all the information they need about how the ministries, local self-government, cities, provinces and everything else worked. In the past few years, we have indeed been through these first birth pains in which we have not had any information about what auditors have done, how much they visited the institution, what they have found, but after some time reports have begun to arrive in the National Assembly, quite large. The public also had the opportunity through the media to get information about what the findings of these auditors were. What we knew last year, in 2011, about 200 visits were made by auditors, 200 institutions visited, and the ministries and local self-governments and cities, not to repeat. It's been found everywhere. It's just an apostrophe of the National Bank and Customs Administration that there's been no irregularities. All reports indicate that there is one single law that is the central story of everything, where corruption and irregular work is happening. It's the Public Procurement Act. What is the object of my parliamentary group is – auditors should exist. The auditors have justified their existence for the past five years, but they must be braver. Things don't end on criminal charges. These misdemeanor reports have been the subject of the media for a few days. You pay 50 or 100 grand out of your pocket or out of the pocket of an institution represented by a certain man, and then it's over. It's not the goal, and it can't be the goal. Somehow those two things were just moved. What also especially paralyzes me and I do not like is the manner of public debate in the media of the auditors, according to this minister whom he has designated as a violation of the law. Then the minister answers that and so on. One very ugly way. Then the whole story must involve the court, the judicial authorities must be involved, and then the state, the citizens, all of us here in parliament get real information about what's actually going on. That is why we will support the work of the DRI and this council in the new mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2088	Thank you. On what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2089	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, because my colleague didn't talk about what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2090	I think she spoke. I followed closely.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2091	I don't think Mladjan Dinkic is on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2092	I think it was all about the DRI and the DRI work.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2093	Yes, but Mladjan Dinkic is in no way in the DRI. Let me just take a few sentences from my dear colleague, with whom I have truly great cooperation. I don't think there was any place to mention Mladjan Dinkic. I just wanted to remind my colleague of what she knows very well, which is that at a time when Mladjan Dinkic was finance minister, which is the time when we were together in the government, it was the government of Vojislav Kostunica, at which point the public debt was significantly lower. He was 30% compared to the current 56. At the time of the government where we worked together, when Mladjan Dinkic was the finance minister for the last time, there was no deficit, but the budget was in surplus 2%. That's what remained of the other finance ministers, and at the time the state's foreign reserve increased from 300 million to 11 billion. That's also our common score. Also, at that time we had an 8% GDP growth, and today we have a recession. I just wanted to remind myself of the joint results we had in these governments and that after that, Mladjan Dinkic was no longer the finance minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2094	Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2095	Thank you. I am an MP like all the other 249 MPs, and I have the right and freedom to make my speech in a way that I think I want to achieve the effect of what I want to talk about. Dear colleague, I'm not forgetful. I know what I'm talking about very well, but there's one more thing I need to tell you. I understand you had a need to defend the finance minister, I don't mind, but not in a way that puts you at risk what I said. I was on the subject as much as you were on the subject yesterday when you were talking about budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2096	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Irena Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2097	Dear Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, here are a few words about candidates to be elected to the office of Vice Governor. First of all, I believe that the proposed candidates are proposed on the basis of their top references. Very much with advocating to preserve the independence and independence of the NBS and above all are proposed for their expertise and banking-financial experience. NBS independence can be defined or presented as its freedom to run Serbia's discretionary monetary policy as a whole. If, however, Serbia's monetary policy is seen and defined as an effective use of control over dinar emissions in the definition and functions of transport and payment means, then the NBS, or its governor and vice governors, play a relatively large role in the process of determining the amount of dinars in circulation within Serbia's state and customs borders. The independence of the NBS is a certain and real freedom, and an extremely important social institution relative to the Serbian government and the legislative authority of Serbia. Two components of NBS independence are important, primarily target independence, which implies its freedom to define the objectives of monetary policy and its right to find instruments to achieve the most important objectives of monetary policy. I believe that the proposed vice governors are primarily competent, as I have already mentioned, and we all have their biographies, which show that all three have mastered the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade from areas that are important for the Central Bank's work, and Mrs Dragutinovic is also a doctor of economic science, as well as a professor at her home university. It has an enviable experience in macro-economic modelling of the economy as a whole, as well as in modelling, i.e. credible predictions of the empirical rate of inflation, the price of the most important goods and production services. All three are used in world languages and have experience in international communications in the financial world, which is very important to us. In particular, it should be pointed out that the three, in accordance with the legal procedure, accepted a candidate for election to be a vice governor and thus, in my own confidence, have once again shown their self-awareness and willingness to carry out such important social and state affairs in such a complex economic and financial situation of the country. Finally, I express my personal confidence that Ms Tabakovic, the proposed vice governors and their competent advisers, will do whatever it takes for the National Bank of Serbia to continue to act as the last source of cash, as well as the last haven of different credit relations and forms of credit money, not only as a mere neo-monetary issuer, i.e. the creator of so-called primary money. It is already a complex matter, which will be discussed in public opinion, of course, in the Fiscal Council and above all in this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2098	Thank you. Governor Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2099	Dear colleague Irena Vujovic, I thank you for not saying what, if you hadn't said, I might have missed one extremely important thing to repeat myself, and you said it, how important the quality of people and their biography is, in fact, proof that they have accepted that at this moment, with such biographies, and in a very complex situation in Serbia, when the work of conscience and work for the good of citizens is primarily seen from the corner of political connection, the historical and political pedicure of one who runs a house or will lead it. As high quality as they are, it proves that above all, it was important for them to make this Serbia more advanced with someone as responsible as they are for the independence of the National Bank in the state of Serbia and its role, that with the Government and the Assembly, this Serbia is more evidence that you are voting for them. I thank you, young colleague, once again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2100	Thank you. National MP Marija Obradovic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2101	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, honourable Governor Tabakovic and fellow MPs, I invite you to vote in favour of the proposed three candidates for jokes of the governors of the National Bank of Serbia, for Ms Ana Gligorijević, Mrs Diana Dragutinovic and Mr Veselin Pjescic. With the election, proposed three candidates for jokes by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, we will confirm one of the basic principles in the political functioning of the Serbian Progressive Party, and we seek to be the principle that will be the general rule accepted in Serbia, which is the engagement of non-party figures, above all, experts who will be the most qualified to perform tasks at the functions they are elected to. By adopting this proposal and by placing these jokes on the governor, we will also contribute to the independence of the National Bank of Serbia. The three candidates, Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic, proposed for their education, their expertise in the area of economy, finance and banking and the results of work so far. Personal and wealthy work biographies, we heard in the governor's presentation, and I'd like to add another detail that is certainly not crucial, but I would like to point that out. As a woman who is politically active and still has us far less than men and in parliament and in other places of decision, I must express my satisfaction that the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, and hopefully two jokes of governors, precisely women. It is also an incentive and recognition for women in Serbia that they are sufficiently educational, professional, capable and respected to do the most important jobs in the country. So, younger, highly educated people, exceptional energy and will to do hard work, jokes by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia have been proposed. I urge you once again to vote for these three candidates, Governor Tabakovic, Mrs Ana Gligorijević, Mrs Diana Dragutinovic and Mr Veselin Pjescic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-21-0.u2102	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 33, 34, 35 and 36 of the agenda. I'm setting a break by 3:30. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have not received the Government's opinion on certain amendments. The decision is to stop work today and continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
