ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-21-0.u4813	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister Dinkic, fellow MPs, held by the 4th member of the 7th until now's Customs Law, was scheduled for the training and passing of a professional examination to be organised by the Customs Administration. That position 4 has been amended by the draft law, so it is now said - a special expert examination for representation in the customs procedure is to be taken before the examination committee educated by the minister on the proposal of the Director of Customs Administration. This change is good, but this change kind of disabling the Customs Administration, because it does not say that the Customs Administration organises training and passing an expert examination, and we believe that it should stand in the law and that it is clear who can organise training and who can organise the passing of a special expert examination, especially as amendments in Article 21 say that the customs authority collects compensation and requires compensation for the provision of special services and that it organises training for the submission of a special expert examination to pass that examination. By logical interpretation, we come to the fact that the Customs Administration is organising a professional exam and training, but that's what it is, and I don't think we should be dealing with interpretations where we don't have to, and here I don't think we have to. I think these changes should say that the Customs Administration is organising training and passing an expert examination, and a special expert examination for representation in the customs procedure is to be passed before the examination committee, which is being educated by the Minister on a proposal from the Director of Customs Administration. We're not changing what the government suggested, but we're just supplementing and I think that's a good solution, to complete the law, and I think the minister should accept this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-21-0.u4814	Thank you. National MP Janko Veselinović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-21-0.u4815	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, is not clear to me why the government did not accept this amendment from counterpart Djidic, above all that he went towards clarifying and improving this amendment and supplementing the law. In any case, he was to correct this bill on the one hand, and on the other hand we seem to have a slight impression that the amendments of the MPs from the opposition are not seen by the Government as amendments that go to correct the laws and in a constructive way contribute to the work of the National Assembly, but as amendments to the opposition that should be rejected. We have very few cases that the opposition amendments, at least DS, have been accepted. On the other hand, I would like to take the opportunity to ask you why we have been here for four amendments for two days, which is why yesterday there were no representatives of the Government in the Assembly, although they were in the halls, we have met some of them, and why we are spending money on Serbian citizens, and you are pushing for rationalisation, which is why we do not organise the work of the National Assembly to be transparent and to know why we spend time and money in vain sitting in parliamentary benches instead of sitting in the hall and discussing the laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-21-0.u4816	Thank you. You will get an answer to this question, only you know that during the debate on amendments you can discuss the content of the amendments and that by asking such a question you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure. I absolutely agree with you that I expect always a significant approach from a government representative, such as today, and at times when, for any reason, we do not have the opportunity to have a government representative present, I am not prepared to hold a debate on such important issues without a proposing representative who could answer all your questions. That's the point why yesterday we couldn't have a session on time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment with corrections was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with amendments from 13 and 14 November 2012, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and the amendments of 15 November 2012, the Committee did not enter into force. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-21-0.u4817	Article 3 of the amendment of the Customs Code provides for a five-year period to be reduced to three years for the keeping of customs documents. This reduction, i.e. the reduction in storage, is not only a reduction in the keeping of customs documents, but also a reduction in the time limit for the control of customs documents. I don't think that's good at this point, because customs administration at this point has no personnel, first of all, technical possibilities for quick control, given the number of businesses dealing with foreign trade and threatening to be significantly damaged by the Republic of Serbia's budget. In the principle debate, I was talking about one case about tariffing goods, and now I'm going to set another better example where it is clear how the Republic of Serbia's budget can be damaged. In fact, we have a phenomenon in practice that false invoices appear, that in invoices there is one amount of imported goods, and in fact that amount is much higher. In order to determine this, it is necessary to exchange information and documentation with other customs administrations, i.e. it is necessary to exchange information and documentation with the other customs administrations. We had the opportunity to adopt in this Parliament a customs co-operation agreement with the Republic of Georgia ten days ago, as well as a few days ago a border control agreement with the Republic of Hungary, but there are a large number of countries with which we do not have such an agreement that makes this exchange of documents significantly difficult, and without that exchange of documentation, we cannot determine the correct factual state and therefore make decisions. We have plenty of cases for Serbian citizens to start firms in other European countries, to use them for importing goods, primarily textiles, from China. There's a big problem, because prices are very low and I don't think they're real. In order to determine the right price, there is a huge process, we must first with this country where the goods come from to get in touch, and then with the Chinese customs administration. It takes a lot of time. In this way, the budget of the Republic of Serbia is multiplely damaged, primarily for reduced customs duties, but also this goods know that they end up on an illegal market, so the state is also damaged for unpaid value added tax. So, three years, I don't think it's appropriate at this point, because we can't finish all of these jobs in that time frame. Unfortunately, many are in the gray zone and are using every opportunity to damage the Republic of Serbia's budget. Instead of reducing the possibility of abuse by legal proposals, it seems to me that in this way, these very legal proposals, we encourage those who are on the verge of legal business to move on to illegal business and thereby harm the budget of the Republic of Serbia. On the one hand, we fight for every penny, because we know what the state of the state budget is, and on the other hand, we encourage such legal regulations to those at the edge of the law to move to the other side, to do illegal business and harm the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but also to themselves. Therefore, I think this deadline, or this article, should be deleted. It should be left for five years until the conditions are met for that period to be three years. I am not saying that we should not go towards solutions that are in most EU countries, but conditions should be obtained that we can apply it in practice in Serbia without harming the state of Serbia. So once again, I think this amendment should be accepted because of Serbian citizens living in a very difficult financial situation. I've spoken to a customs officer who's been a customs officer since college, to this day, for almost 40 years. He told me one thing I'm going to share with you, and you're going to judge for yourself if that man is right. The man told me that no one in Serbia could get rich overnight, and we've had this in practice since the 1990s until today, who hasn't damaged the country either through taxes or customs, it doesn't matter. Is that man right? Judge for yourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-21-0.u4818	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. The government and resolution committee did not accept the amendment and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-21-0.u4819	What I said about this member is true for this member. Here, the deadline for notifying debtors is five years down to three. Also, I don't think it's a good time to do it and not jump into our own mouths. Why should we shorten the deadline to inform someone that he owes the state? I don't think there's a single reason. I don't want to make arguments I've already made. I will take the opportunity, since the minister was not in the principle debate, to make a proposal that I made in the principle debate. I am taking it out now because some parliamentary groups have also accepted it. It's Mr. Minister to consider that what we did in the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration where we've taxed, the criminal procedure has returned to the IRS, to consider returning the customs offence to the Customs Administration and the Ministry of Finance. Practice has shown that toons have worked much better than misdemeanors do. The Republic of Serbia's budget has been damaged again, as seized goods in customs procedures stand on the lagers. Its value declines every day. Someone asked the question – do the Customs Administration and the Ministry of Finance have the capacity to do so? I'm saying they do because they did it very successfully until two years ago, and I don't see any reason why they can't do it now. Violent courts have shown that they do not have the capacity to do these jobs the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-21-0.u4820	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-21-0.u4821	I agree with you. We'll do it. It's the subject of another law. It's the Customs Service Act that was done in the draft, and next year we're going to adopt it and do what we did at the IRS. So instead of doing it infraction courts, which is very inefficient, to do customs. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-21-0.u4822	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic, Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-21-0.u4823	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in the principle debate, we have proven that this is not just a technical law, but a law that needs to facilitate customs procedures and procedures, which should facilitate exports, to simplify our businesses' specific functioning. We have not heard how the provisions of this law will apply to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I mean the KIM area, given that we have a clear obstruction from the EU and the World Trade Organisation when customs revenues are at stake. This law was amended because the representatives of the expedition proved its unconstitutional nature. The constitutional court of the Republic of Serbia made a decision in July, I think, on July 12th, declaring it an unconstitutional way of calculating interest on customs debt according to a comfortable method. This law changes that. Our amendment is heading towards preventing new costs, primarily the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the lawsuits that could be damaged to bear during this period. That is why we propose that this law enters on the eighth day of adoption, not to wait on January 1st, or December 31st, this year, to prevent the money of Serbian citizens from going to some court proceedings, the damages that will be claimed by the freighters that have been damaged by this law and this unconstitutional provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-21-0.u4824	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Thursday, November 22nd, 2012, starting at 10.00 p.m. as the day for voting on agenda items of the 6th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. I hereby inform you that I have called for the next session, which will begin tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. Thank you, everyone. Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 128 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that the quorum in voting day exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Rule 88(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Donka Banović, Maja Gojkovic, Ljubica Milosevic, Milorad Stošić, Cedomir Protic, Branko Ružić, Ivica Tončev, Dijana Vukomanovic and Aleksandar Antić. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary to the Customs Law Since the National Assembly has conducted a review of the Amendments and Supplements Act proposal in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – no one with abstention – has voted five out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. National MP Olgica Batic, 13 November 2012, wrote in writing, withdrew amendments she submitted to the article. 2a, 2b, 2v and 4a. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is, in accordance with Article 163(2). Rules of Procedure, rejected as the incomplete amendments by Parliamentarian Olgica Batic to add new members of 4a and 4b after Article 4, with correction and MP Enis Imamovic to add a new Article 4a after Article 4. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 132 out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by Parliament MP Olga Batic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending adopted this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted seven out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 129 out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 131 out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic, Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 133 out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Act in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted seven out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and amendments to the Customs Code. Since we are now moving to a decision on proposals for the law on the approval of international agreements (points 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the agenda), I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. With that in mind, we're going to make a decision. We are moving to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters I am putting to the vote of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one with abstention – has voted three out of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a LAW on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters I place on the vote of the Proposal for a Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, against – no one with abstention – has voted one of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 4th item of the agenda - Proposal for a LAW on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on extradition I am putting to the vote the draft law on the approval of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on extradition, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – no one with abstention – there were those who did not vote, of the total of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 5th item of the agenda - Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE CONCERNATION OF THE COURT OF COURT IN CRIMINAL THINGS I place the motion for a law on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on the mutual enforcement of judgments in criminal matters, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, against – no one with abstention – has voted one of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 6th item of the agenda - Proposal for a LAW ON CONSERVATION OF A CONTRACTION OF A CONTRACTING A CONTRACTION FROM THE Government OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PUBLICATION ON THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE COURT OF THE CONTRACTING OF THE CONTRACTION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENTAL INVESTIGATION INSTRUCTION OF THE GOVERNMENT Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, with abstention – has voted two out of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 7th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria on mutual incentive and investment protection I am putting to the vote the draft law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria on mutual incentive and protection of investments, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, against – no one with abstention – has voted one of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 8th item of the agenda - Proposal for a decision to terminate the public prosecutor's function in the higher public prosecutor's office, since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motion for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides on the termination of the public prosecutor's office by a majority vote of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, with abstention – has voted two out of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes of all MPs adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the office of public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic. We move to the 9th item of the agenda - Proposal for a DECISION on the termination of the public prosecutor's function in the higher public prosecutor's office in Začeča after the National Assembly carried out a single search on the motion for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 2. 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides on the termination of the public prosecutor's office by a majority vote of all MPs. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Zajecar. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one with abstention – has voted three out of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes of all MPs adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the office of public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Zajecar. We move to the 10th item of the agenda - Proposal for a DECISION OF A MEETING OF THE NATIONAL SCHOOL OF THE SPECIFIC EDUCATION COUNCIL Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides on the resolution of members of the National Council for Higher Education by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of a member of the National Council for Higher Education. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, with abstention – has voted two out of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the resolution of members of the National Council for Higher Education by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 11th item of the agenda - Proposal for a DECISION TO CONSOLIDATE TO THE DECISION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION DECISION AND THE WORKING SERVICE OF THE PROFESSORS FOR THE PROTECTION OF JUSTICE AND THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION AND SYSTEMS OF WORKING IN THE PROGRAMMEMENT OF THE PROGRAMME, we move on to the decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Decision on the Education and Labour of the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and the Regulation on the Internal Organisation and Systematization of Jobs in the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted five out of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority of the votes of all MPs the Proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision amending the Decision on the Education and Labour of the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and the Regulation on the Internal Organisation and Systematization of Jobs in the professional service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the sixth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. In 30 minutes, 11.00 hours, we have an appointment for the next session. Please be precise. Thank you. (The session is over at 10:35 p.m. )
