ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8706	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 69 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National Parliament of Ljubica Milosevic. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that, with regard to the search in particular on the drafts of the laws referred to in points 5, 7 and 23 of the agenda, I have called for the sittings to be attended by Pavle Galic, assistant minister of traffic, as well as the Minister of Transport, to be attended by representatives of the motions of Velimir Ilic. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to the search in detail of the 5th item of the agenda – PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON THE SUPPORT OF THE CIVIL INDUSTRY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE CONDITIONS OF THE ECONOMAL CRISIS You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Aleksandar Pejčić, Miroslav Petkovic, Radojko Obradović, Bojana Bozanić, Ivan Andrić, Bojan Đurić, Judita Popović and Kenan Hajdarevic. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the title above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8707	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we worked all day yesterday, worked until midnight, and we were really in a hurry to complete certain points that were on Parliament's agenda. What's the rush? What's the hurry? Why do you do things that we already know in advance that won't bring the expected results? Do you even expect any results from all these laws that are on the agenda of parliament? I'm asking this for that reason, because that's exactly what this amendment is about, that we've submitted to this member of the law. We believe that the solution proposed by law is sufficient argument to adopt our amendment, in fact, to delete it. To delete not only the title above Article 1 of this Act, but to put out of force this bill, or to withdraw it from the procedure. This is because only the reasons and reasons set out in the bill suggest that the law, as it is, is excessive and that the law is contrary to everything you claim to want to make in terms of economic progress. I would especially quote certain parts of this argument to you. You say that individual solutions should be defined more precisely, and in view of the expectation that the negative effects of the crisis will continue next year, it is necessary to extend the period of validity of this law by another year. That's not true. This law has two members. One member says it will be extended until 31 December 2014. If we live today in December 2012, that means that this troubled law will be valid for another two years. It's the first untruth that makes up the reasons for the law. I will not use this term on purpose, which is why you gave notice to one of the MPs, when he wanted in a clear and true way to characterize certain things in your conduct, I will only say that it is false. Another lie is – what does this mean, in the meantime, that the crisis will be resolved on its own and that is why we need to extend these extraordinary measures? These extraordinary measures, for example, which were established by the adoption of this law, the basic law to which these amendments and additions apply, envisioned certain arbitration in the state's conduct towards the construction industry and, in fact, accelerated only the focus of corruption. If you have one law that has shown how ineffective it is, if you have a law that only produces bad effects, isn't it more normal for you to put that law out of force and withdraw it? Isn't it more normal to follow your own criticisms that you made in 2010, when the law was passed and that without any hypocrisy you say – yes, that law was very bad, yes, we think it produces bad effects and we're going to put that law out of force, or are we going to let it go past its deadline? No, you're just continuing in the continuity of the previous government that you're criticizing so much over corruption. You leave one serious problem, that it continues to silence, that it remains a source of corruption and that it only generates this corruption, which seems to me to be an alpha and omega of this government and these authorities. Corruption is the problem of this country, corruption was not created yesterday, but corruption must be fought through institutions. Not only through institutions, but through legal solutions, and this is not one of the solutions that could change the situation of corruption and organised crime. Moreover, the solutions to the law on speeding up and encouraging the construction industry in the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis are only a source of further very problematic steps and problematic solutions expected in the construction industry. So here's a chance for you to change your wrong attitude. Adopt the LDP amendment, which is mine and my colleagues, and in that case, we will really believe that you seriously mean what you wrote in the light of the law and what you say every day about corruption and the fight against organised crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8708	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 1st Amendment together include the mid-term MPs Aleksandar Pejčić, Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradović. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8709	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the DSS MP group also spoke about it in principle. Of course, we're going to talk about this today, because we think that the greatest contribution to encouraging the construction industry is just putting aside the Law on Planning and Construction. We saw the government's explanation and we expected something like this. We did not suggest that this law be deleted, but a series of other laws that should regulate certain parts of this area. We are certainly aware that the Law on Planning and Construction has not yielded the desired results. In certain provisions it was even declared against the constitution, so we expected that after a few months of your ministry's work, a new bill would come before the assembly. We have heard that this is expected in some future period and we hope that it will be able to fix everything that is the law, which your previous here announced as epochal and revolutionary, that it will speed up the procedure, that it will bring a lot of good to the Serbian construction industry, which has not been realized, that this will finally be changed. We are aware that this law did not in any way trigger the economy of the Republic of Serbia. We are aware that the conversion has brought a number of harmful consequences, or that it has frozen one condition that has been disastrous anyway, and the question is how will we get out of it in the next period. We are aware that this law in certain members is written in such a way that only above the member lacks the name and name of the tycoon to which it is intended. Some of them, for God's sake, are in custody, so they'll probably have a chance in court to plead. The problem of an enormous number of illegal objects remains unresolved. You were talking about it. I think over 700,000 demands are waiting to be solved. There is still corruption in obtaining construction permits, and there are still long deadlines for issuing these permits, and we are still at the beginning of all possible lists, and even the list of speeds for issuing building licenses, and there are still problems related to various cataracts, directors, inspections, granting consent, and it still costs, probably the most expensive in Europe. We have made a proposal to put aside the Law on Planning and Construction, but not to keep the area unregulated, but to define certain things in the right way, first and foremost, the adoption of a new law on planning and construction and a special law on construction. We agreed a few days ago it's not good for these things to be united in one legal act. We propose a new law on building land and law on legalization of buildings built without a building permit. It is a huge matter, and we know it takes a lot of time to regulate it properly, but I think this is really urgent and we need this issue because of all Serbian citizens who have some problems to solve, and even if the state could function in this field, that they should be brought in as soon as possible. We need to find a solution to the long construction operation because our economic programme also says that the building is one of the development opportunities of the RS and certainly thousands of people working in this sector must be given the opportunity to perform the work and to collect it and to put the construction operation on its feet. Unfortunately, capital facilities in this country continue to build foreign companies, but I am sure you will do everything to make as many of our domestic companies participate in this, not just as producers. We know the problems with the construction operation, but I'm sure there are companies in this country that could answer that job. What we need is for the state to have a clear strategy in the area of construction, not to be left to the verse and blackmail above all by foreign banks that, under certain conditions, lend loans to our construction firms. We've talked a lot about how the law applies only to these projects that have already begun. We have proposed, in the form of an amendment, a certain solution that unfortunately the Government has rejected. We even asked, I hope you'll meet us, to get a list within a certain period, which you consider appropriate, of all the projects that are being implemented in accordance with this law. It wouldn't be good if, under this law, they started funding some new buildings, some new projects. We know that it is a big problem to start projects and we have a certain understanding on this side, but we really think it is necessary to take concrete measures as soon as possible in this field. The government has explained that if our amendment is accepted that this will create problems in spatial planning, that it will create problems in building buildings, in editing building land, inspection controls. Those problems already exist. Certain DSS proposals went that way to remove and solve these problems. We expect you very quickly with new law proposals that we simply try to overcome everything that was in the previous period, to leave out certain things that are inadmissible to stand and remain in the RS legal system, which the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has also declared. As far as we're concerned, you'll always have co-operation. You have even offered the possibility of us including ourselves in this project, and we expect both of you as well as the Secretary-General to give our representative to the task force, because we have engineers who can respond to these tasks, who used to work in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who actively participate in the work of the Engineering Chamber and all major projects carried out in this country and have great experience with work abroad. We can't support the bill. I mean, our amendments have been good, but we expect you to solve in a systematic manner all these problems that are currently current in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8710	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8711	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the same reasons the Government rejected this amendment, we believe that this law should have been passed several years ago and we believe that it was justified. This has also proved to be the very fact that the new government has requested an extension of the period of validity. What makes us think that the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic did the right thing when she passed this law? For a few reasons. First, this is the most direct way to save about 88,000 jobs in the construction industry. We're not saying they're new people's employees, but there's about 88,000 jobs in the construction industry, and that's a big success anyway. In any case, we commend the fact that the new government has recognised that this project is the direction to try to save existing jobs and that it is necessary to look for opportunities to create new jobs in these times of crisis. Of course it's unexplainable, but we certainly accept that the election campaign also used the possibility of criticising good projects, so it certainly shows now that the previous opposition was wrong when it criticised this project and this law, because they now support it themselves. But it doesn't matter that much. It is important that a large number of objects have been built in this period of time for local self-government, kindergartens, schools, sports halls, stadiums. Some are not finished, but they will certainly be completed if this law is passed. I don't consider it a good fact that certain parties suggest that this law applies only to starting objects. I think it should be meant to be funded projects that are good for the local community, which are good for the state as well. That's what the construction industry does. Why? Because of the fact that we're going to keep those jobs that way. Explaining the fact that a state when it's a financier that it creates good conditions for corruption is not good for a state that has a serious institution, a prosecutor's office, which has courts, which has independent institutions. I believe that any justice by corruption in this area, and in every other area... We had opportunities these days when we talked about criminal laws, when it was talked about certain crimes and the reasons why the law was being reduced by force, or by parole, we talked about the possibility of corruption in those who decide to do so. Corruption needs to be contained in another way, rather than suspending everything that creates a new value by justifying corruption. In any case, a large number of municipalities were involved in these projects. A large number of local self-governments have funded individual projects. There were good projects. There are still unrealised projects, and in this sense we believe that it is good and commendable for the new government for accepting in this part continuity with the previous government, and we cannot support amendments that go in the opposite direction and that this law should be limited and that it should be suspended in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8712	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8713	I would like to thank Madam Chairman, the Honorable Minister Ilic, as well as my colleague Miroslav Petkovic, for the amendment submitted by the DSS. The construction operation law was passed in 2010 and this is the second amendment to this law. This law, if you remember, is pompously announced in this Assembly, although it has passed and voted with a close majority. At the time, Minister Oliver Dulic spoke of this law that he and how he would help the construction operation, that he would save many construction companies, that he would save many jobs in these companies. However, the facts say otherwise. In fact, the Union of Employers of Construction and Construction Materials has given a statement saying that at this point there are some 9,000 companies dealing with this branch of activity and that around 24% have a ban on activity or are in bankruptcy. Since 2011, 2,600 companies have been shut down when it comes to this activity. Many NGOs have also criticised the law by saying that the law is unconstitutional and that it is in collegiate with the Public Procurement Act. Also, many political options in parliament have talked about this law that it will cause negative effects. Among other things, both your MP group and many of the parties now in power have criticised this law. They said that the very famous member of the 5th that is in collegiate with the Public Procurement Act, which provides for a free contract, not a public call, is also contradictory and is in collapsing with the Public Procurement Act. We all know that when we refer to this member of the Public Procurement Act, it is in the case of natural disasters, earthquakes, floods or fires. However, Mr Oliver Dulic called for the global economic crisis as one of the basic disasters, which we and how we reacted to. We didn't come here just to criticize, Mr. Minister, but to offer concrete solutions. In the debate in principle, we said that it would be best for the state to pass a law that would reduce VAT on construction materials, in order to relax our construction. Basically, when it comes to this amendment, we said that this amendment is not the one that needs to prolong the agony for two years, but that we give concrete things, as we have offered here, which is that we limit this law to another year to end these projects, and then the state to pass one system law to help build up an operation to find some prosperity in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8714	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Bojana Bozanic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8715	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This is an alternative solution that we have offered compared to that amendment submitted by Mr Obradovic, Pejcic and I. If he remains in force, this law will limit his fact for a year. We don't see any reason for him to be valid until 2014. If the problems are not solved after the adoption and the new law you have announced, the whole set of regulations to come to the Assembly, we will easily extend for another year. We think that there is a legitimate concern that if this law is implemented for another two years, certain abuses will occur and will not produce concrete results. Therefore, it is easy to extend this law for another year if it turns out that it is not all done as planned. That is why we expected this DSS amendment to be accepted. Unfortunately, it's not. I'll see you at the end of next year, and we'll see what concrete results are.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8716	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8717	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've already spoken of an untruth contained in the reasoning of this law. Now I'm going to tell you about two other false things that also make up the content of the reasoning. The other one is that the existing law has produced good results. That's just not true. I don't see what it's like to be a good result. I don't see any analysis. We can trust, and we don't have to, and since we have no reason to believe the good word of anyone, there's no argument. It is a lie. Not supported by arguments. The other thing is the fact that this law allows us to function in one state economy, that we can function with one state interventionism, despite the laws of the market and despite the laws of free competition, because this law, which should have been helped by the construction industry, was compromised and put out of effect. Therefore, the Law on Planning and Construction has compromised the construction industry. However, the law that had the ambition and the intention to encourage the functioning and survival of the construction industry has beaten that industry. Unfortunately, the former opposition, and the current government, along with the coalition with the former government and the current government, closes its eyes to the fact and is really obsessed with this kind of economic policy that has produced such devastating results. Once again, this law that will now last for the next two years, as December 31st 2014 means that the law will apply throughout 2013 and throughout 2014. In this context, it is said in the light of the law that no additional funds will be needed to implement this law. That's not true again. It's not true, because if you really want to help the construction industry, and you don't change the Law on Planning and Construction, we're going to have today on the agenda of the Assembly of some minor amendments to the Law that really, and in no way, will not give to the quality of that law. If you don't want to financially support the construction industry, I don't know how you think you can stimulate production in the construction industry. That's not true. So, three, four, you have made clear falseness into the reasoning of the law, and that is a law that consists of two members. Therefore, it is not too late to withdraw this law from the procedure and to work on the fact that the construction industry needs help, that there are a lot of people working in the building, and today they are no longer working, that this country is on one downstream line of economic development, that this country once hired over 200,000 workers in industry, and today it employs only 10% of it. It's a big problem, because instead of developing an economy, it's not only staging and not developing, it's standing in place, it's simply falling apart. We don't see any indication in this government's actions and these authorities that they want something to change in that continuity of general failure and general collapse. This small law is just one example of how you think you can solve the issue of unemployment, the budget deficit, the huge debt of this country and, in general, the huge economic crisis in which the country is in, independent of the global economic crisis, most of all because of its own wrong moves it has made over the past 20 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8718	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8719	The President-in-Office, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the DS, this amendment is unacceptable. The arguments presented in the defense of this amendment, i.e. in the request that this law be withdrawn from the procedure or that the acceptance of the amendment actually suspends the application is unacceptable, for several reasons. This law was passed by the previous government, where most of it represented DS. She did not bring it by denying the very essence of the country's economic system, as they are trying to present it here, and did not bring it here because she wanted to disqualify some other laws, as it is also claimed here, and among other things, the Public Procurement Act. The government brought it in because in the conditions of a deep economic crisis, a country that had a construction operation that had become insufficiently competitive in relation to a construction operation that would come on the side and that had a direct need to get some kind of incentive from the state, so that it could survive this difficult economic crisis. One way was to pass a law allowing the state to have domestic construction firms engaged in the country and thus to create conditions for these construction firms to survive, that is, thousands and thousands of employees in these construction firms to keep their jobs and provide for their families. Then there were also criticisms, which are being repeated today, that this law, the law that carries the elements of corruption within it. I must say, there is not a single law that you cannot accuse of wearing elements for corruption, as long as you do not build strong institutions that will control public authorities and thus prevent the law from being misused by anyone turning it into a means of achieving any personal benefit and a means of corruption. The charge that in a capitalist society, such as Serbia as the country in transition is building, the state should not interfere in the economy and economy, it has denied reality in all countries of high-developed capitalist countries, as all those in the conditions of the deep economic crisis have intervened for state interventions to enable their economic branches and the banking sector to withstand the impact of the economic crisis, so that the whole society and the whole system does not collapse. In conditions when the previous government passed this law, Serbia was at the heart of the global economic crisis, and then certain sectors of the economy in Serbia showed the greatest vulnerability to the economic crisis. One of those sectors is a construction operation. Given the fact that a construction operation in Serbia has had a long and good history, even on the international agenda, and that it employs a huge number of people, and that it has the potential to, if it survives the economic crisis, be one of the development branches in Serbia, the previous government felt that the state should support this industrial branch, to allow the survival of the economic crisis to create assumptions that this would be one of the branches that could be a driving force for Serbia's economic recovery and development. On the other hand, this measure has been done what was the responsibility of each government and should be the responsibility of each government, is to allow thousands and thousands of people and their families to preserve sources of existence for their families. The Democratic Party will therefore vote in favour of this law in the voting day, believing that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of the Construction Industry in the Times of Crisis came to the Assembly, that it is a confirmation that even when the law was passed, despite the fact that some who are now sitting in this Government have sharply criticised the law, that this was a confirmation that the measure was a good measure at the time when it was adopted, that it has produced good results in the period for which it was applied and we believe that it will give good results and in the period for which the period of validity of this law is required. At the same time, we believe that if there is a space for corruption, and there is no law that leaves no space for corruption, and every society is defended by building strong institutions and constantly perfecting laws, then additional control mechanisms should be established to prevent corruption. But because of the danger of possible corruption, I don't think that those measures that show that they produce results and that help certain industries survive in times of crisis and that people who are employed in these companies enable their families to live a normal life in times of crisis. I could now say, how usually it is, what someone tells you – what we told you, to show that we have a certain satisfaction to face from day to day that the measures taken in the previous period were good measures, that the government's policy was good in the period of economic crisis, because daily we get confirmation that those measures we took in those conditions were good, with all the objections that were justified, of course. So we don't think it was ideal, but we think that some of the measures that were most strongly attacked were good, which shows, among other things, the bill that the DS will support in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8720	Thank you. The word has Mrs Popovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8721	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that any law can be a source of corruption. It's just a notorious fact. However, this law on the promotion of the construction industry has little more than other laws to generate corruption and it is a notorious fact, for very simple reasons. The most important reason is that this law has put off some basic mechanisms that can be controlled and stop corruption, which is the market and free competition. So if you don't have a free market and you don't have free competition, you simply don't have the mechanisms to control the functioning of such a construction industry, which is currently in place in Serbia. We really haven't seen the positive effects of this law, which has been going on since 2010, but we've seen all these losses that exist and we've seen all those powerful entrepreneurs who have bankrupted, all those private businesses and social property that have gone bankrupt or simply are not able to pay their workers. We've seen these results. You know, this country really doesn't have time to work with a cane and a cane anymore, and there's no time left, believe me, for the word of honor, to listen to someone promise to protect something and someone to be honest. There's no time for this country anymore. This country missed the information revolution in the industry. This country has 7.5% higher education. What are we all doing in the building tomorrow?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8722	Thank you. It's Mrs. Kolundji's word, replica. Please, let's get back to the subject slowly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8723	So we can really discuss here how some of the laws open up a space for corruption and whether there are instruments to prevent it. It is true that in market conditions, where there are clear competition rules and beats the one most competitive, such assumptions are reduced for corruption. But there's one simple question to ask. When you have an industry that is weaker than the same firms from abroad, then the question is, if you don't make some measures that will allow this industry to survive and develop, did you actually condemn the entire industry to failure? I deeply believe that's the case. I believe our construction industry would completely collapse at the moment that it was left to the market. It may also be a strategy and a political decision, but I don't think it would be responsible to do something like that in conditions where jobs are difficult to keep. At the same time, if the effects of what this law has passed are measured, I don't think it needs any more arguments than the fact that 88 thousand people have worked on over 250 projects. For me, that's already enough argument in a time when we know that jobs were lost, that there were no jobs, that given the reduced consumer power there was no consumption, etc. So when the economic crisis had already taken over our society deeply, 88 thousand people worked on 250 projects. I think that's positive enough already.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8724	Mrs. Judita Popovic, replica. This closes the circle of replicas, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8725	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, six months have passed this government and could indeed have done something to encourage production in the construction industry. It wasn't necessary for this law to be passed. I really don't think this law is the tip of the inability that the state can show when it wants to help an industrial branch. So it's not true that this law has given such results that it justifies extending its duration for another two years. You know, all they had to do was roll up their sleeves, start with the Planning and Construction Act. Here's a recommendation. You're working on that law. That law was that backbone, that first point that blocked the construction industry. That's actually why we're criticizing all these incentives. Yes, the construction industry should be helped, but not in this way to derogate both the market and free competition. So, you should be given an incentive, not in order to boost the arbitration of the state. Whenever the state gets involved in economic affairs, whenever the state has a certain arbitral impact on the industry, the economy, in that case, are devastating results. Here, the economic situation in Serbia, you can see for yourself, you don't need any other political story. Our economy is a catastrophic situation. So, something needs to be changed in terms of giving opportunity to competition and the market to fight for something, not just the state with its interventionism to impose the solutions they have shown. Today we talk so much about corruption, organized crime, so what do you want to do about the pathology of one economy and one society? Therefore, please withdraw this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8726	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8727	Thank you. If it didn't turn out that the DS defends the government and defends a law that did not propose itself, citizens should know that this is a law that the previous government passed and that this existing government is asking that this law extend its fact in the sense that the measures that were good in it continue with the realization. However, of course we cannot agree with the amendment that was and is now the subject of the debate, because it proposes that these measures be abolished, i.e. that this member be deleted. Namely, in order for someone to enter a competition and to be able to fight in that competition, he must survive first, survive the storm, or whatever has hit the whole world in the economic crisis. The previous government is considering exactly that, given that liberalisation in crises cannot fully keep all its elements proposed by the law. But what is my question to the Government, a request, is that it does not abuse this law, primarily through political protectionism, because this law allows it. It allows in the sense that the Government in some way makes decisions on which local self-government will implement a project regardless of all the criteria that individual projects should meet. It must also have an equal attitude towards local self-governments in which they have a transmuted power and local self-government in which they do not have an over-expanded power. It must not happen, let's say, that in one municipality that is likely to be the government these days and DS with other parties, such as Batch, not to receive the project. I would only ask you to influence your coalition partners to allow respect for the law and that the council members who have the majority and who are to elect the president have already done so to enable you to do so, because this is the greatest possible political violence not to respect the will of the citizens. Please, Chairman, don't always when you think it's going to jeopardize something, we don't have any other option, we don't have all the media we can talk about on this subject. (President: Please, just speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask nothing else. ) I have linked only the subject of political protectionism and the fact that in one municipality, the will of citizens is already not respected, and that this could also be reflected in the implementation of this law when the municipality respects, not the municipalities, but the state when it respects the will of the citizens and when your partners in Bac are ordered to respect the will of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8728	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the next 6th item of the agenda, it is a search in particular – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE USE OF THE GERMAN Development BANK KFW, FRANKFURT AT MINE, UNDER THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY OF THE "ELECTROPRIVREDE SERBIA", BELOGRAD (STRUMENT OF "PRODUCT TECHNOLOGY EXPLOATATION IN RB COLLUBERATION IN THE PURPOSE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE TERMOELECTRANS AND INSTRUCTION OF THE IMAINMENT OF THE PURRB COLLOTMENT") since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will agree on Article 160. Rules of Procedure, in the voting day, decide on the draft law in general. We move to the 7th point of the agenda, it is a search in particular – a proposal for the Law on Amendments and ENDS OF THE LAWS ON PLOVEDB AND LUKAS IN THE INTERNAL VODOMS You have received amendments that were passed by MPs: Bozidar Djelic, Branka Karavidić, Donka Banović and Milica Vojić Marković on the proposal. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Djelic and Branka Karavidic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8729	I am very sorry that there is no Minister Mrkonjic, who gave us the proposal for a law on inland navigation and ports two years ago. I remind you that you were the chairman of the Traffic and Connection Committee at the time, and I was a member of it. I just can't help feeling that after just two years and after a long series of years of preparing this law, only two years of changing it. I somehow put the accent on a change in the status of the director. Just in your explanation, I couldn't find a single argument valid for changing the status of a special organization. This amendment concerns plans relating to the development of international and inter-state waterways, adopted by the Department of Waterways, with the consent of the Ministry, on the basis of which their technical maintenance, improvement and transport are carried out by the Waterway Directorate. This article, under the current law, is now changing, and I can only get to know the MPs from your explanation that the bill has transferred the power to adopt plans for the development of international and inter-state waterways from the Waterway Directorate and the Ministry of Transport to change the legal status of the Directorate accordingly. In accordance with the status of a specific organisation and its technical personality as well as the scope and database of the data that I possess, the Waterway Directorate has the capacity and is trained to prepare plans under its jurisdiction. I just can't help but feel like the department's gonna work better, better quality, but I've got more amendments, so we'll talk about it later. I'm reading an explanation that my amendment was not accepted and I'm simply under the impression that the amendment didn't, that the amendment to the law didn't come from the Ministry of Traffic, I think it came from the Ministry of Finance and Business.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8730	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8731	I'd like to support my colleague's amendment. When I spoke in principle of this bill, I am also the Ministry of Traffic, which is the formal proposer of this law, suggested that the most significant and significant amendment to this bill, a law passed two years ago, was the abolition of the legal status of the Waterway Directorate. It is also stressed in these arguments that we have received on amendments not to abolish the Waterway Directorates, it is true, but it also changes its legal status because it will become part of the Ministry of Transport. I also spoke in principle of having to have fat reasons to end some special organization that was founded in 1963, 50 years ago and she was doing her job properly, 50 years ago, but at this point when under the savings company or rationalization of the state administration, mistakes are made by us. We believe that the Directorate should remain a special organization. The minister who was here, and when it was in principle, Mr. Ilic, told us that the directorate, i.e. that the employees were not doing their job in the past properly. Let's take his word for it, but it's not the reasons that are mentioned in the reasoning of this bill, but it's just some kind of savings that are going to come true, because employees are going to be cut by 25%, and that's the only benefit we see. We don't know if that benefit or that savings is worth cutting off this organization.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8732	Both MPs Bozidar Djelic and Branka Karavidic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Branka Karavidić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8733	This amendment refers to some of the work of the Waterway Directorate and it is in fact only a consequence of the legal status of the Directorate being changed. In my explanation, by technical maintenance of waterways, the Waterway Directorate has been trained to prepare plans that are extremely professional and impossible to prepare without any up-to-date information on the state of the waterway that the Directorate regularly collects on the ground. I'd just like to remind our fellow MPs that everything deals with the Directorate in the current law. It shall provide technical maintenance of inter-state waterways and navigation safety facilities, monitoring and notification of the state of waterways of international and inter-state waterways, drawing up technical documentation from international and inter-state waterways, establishing, maintaining and developing river information services, maintaining and marking winter winter winter winters, foreign and domestic vessels, anchors on international and inter-state waterways, or bringing security plans and for all other tasks of a certain law. I simply think that, like my colleague Donka Banovic, who only complemented me, I think this is an initiative of the Ministry of Finance and Industry and I have an ugly impression that in general, the number of agencies and various bodies that have been formed these past years has been reduced, that there has been quite a directity for which there is no bad character, at least what we as MPs who were in the previous meeting of the Committee on Traffic and Connections have not been found out. So, there's an organization in 1962, and it's just amazing that one such act, in my opinion, makes no sense of changing its status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8734	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8735	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, Assistant Minister, I am sorry that Minister Mrkonjic is not here today, because I think that when the first attempt was made to abolish the "Plovput", I am talking to you here as a multi-year national coordinator for the development of the Danube EU strategy on behalf of our country. The reaction was instantaneous and very negative. I have here, as you do in the Government, letters from all relevant institutions within the EU, whether they are state-owned, that NGOs, some of those who have ensured that the Plput is able to work on integrated management of our Danube River and to finish this job much faster than many other countries, including some landers in Germany. We have several FP projects, we have essentially "Plovput" which, as a directorate, does not contradict what is said more than the people they have in state authorities, has no privilege and is professionally professional. Dear People's MPs, I would like to warn you that if we declare these changes and supplement laws that, first of all, seem to be the fruit of some professional jealousy, rather than anything else. Serbia will dispel itself with one of the key arguments and instruments that we had in implementing the Danube strategy. That is why, Mr. Minister, I appeal to you, because I know that you respect professionalism in the work and you, Mr. Galic, because we have been following this matter together in the government for some time, to give up this attempt that will save nothing to Serbia, and it will endanger a large number of projects that have started, and not only that, instead of being one of the leaders in implementing the Danube strategy, where there will be something and funds in the upcoming EU budget perspective, we will by who knows which way to score the auto goal. That is why, without any political interference, I urge you ministers and the Government to accept the amendments that we have proposed here and to maintain a professional organisation that has allowed Serbia to have a good effect for decades, and now that the Danube strategy is being prepared, it can benefit greatly from its functioning in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8736	The People's MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8737	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Banovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 2, and we have added a new position and I will explain what we felt was necessary to change this amendment. The method of technical maintenance of international, interstate and national waterways should be prescribed by the transport minister, and the system of technical maintenance of waterways must be unique and comprehensive throughout Serbia's territory. We don't think there's any need for one piece to be prescribed, part of the jurisdiction to prescribe technical conditions, to give AP to Vojvodina, and the other part to the minister. It's just that it's perfectly normal for us to have a minister, since, of course, we don't have a great length of waterways, we only have 1,700 kilometers of waterways. We use 30% of our ports. It can be prescribed by the minister of traffic, and maintenance and everything else should be left to the AP Vojvodina, of course. First of all, because the northern Serbian province is one of the richest areas in this area, it is interested in building and strengthening the development of river ports, ports, marinas, free customs zones and other activities and activities in this area. The basic infrastructure of internal water traffic consists of the Danube, Sava, Tis and the Duvan-Tisa-Dunav channel. Then, eight international ports in the Danube, one on Tisa, several on the Sava. Of course, it's not so much that it can't all be prescribed by the minister of traffic. We believe that the Ministry of Transport should prescribe a unique way of technical maintenance of waterways, and only maintenance should be left to Vojvodina enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8738	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Djelic and Branka Karavidic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has master Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8739	I would just like, since our amendments essentially aim to maintain one, purely professional organisation, which benefits our country, its citizens and which will enable one of the two macro-regional strategies of the EU, the Podunavlje Strategy, to benefit, not only for the Danube municipalities, but also beyond. Almost a third of our municipalities can compete for projects. Dear Members of the People, dear colleagues, can testify that at numerous events, in numerous negotiations, "Plovput" and management that is not party, purely professional, has been of great benefit to our country. We do not see a single argument that makes Serbia, which unfortunately does not yet have many inputs in this great European battle for these funds, lifts that, and is witnessed by the European delegation and the European Commission and one Austrian organisation, which is semi-state, and half of it is non-governmental, i.e. ... (not understood) and the German state "Vijadonal", which is all at the outset, as soon as it is revealed, this attempt to amend and supplement the law, said they do not understand why Serbia wants to abolish something that has proved to be very useful and has proved to be a good partner for all of our European partners. Dear People's MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ten times less goods are transported to the Danube today than on Paradise, and the Danube is unfortunately three times more polluted than that same river. Unfortunately, today, the EU does not have many positive, pro-pulsive, development projects, which concern us, now that we are not members yet, and we have not yet started negotiations. In drawing up the Danube strategy, Serbia was treated for the first time as a full member. For this reason, I appeal to all the MPs of the people, I repeat, without any desire or need to engage politically, to adopt these amendments, and to ensure that one of Serbia's rare bids remains to work for all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8740	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8741	I repeat what I said in explaining these first two amendments. It's just that I can't take the impression that this was done by force, because the sentence found in the law's impact analysis says that, in short, I assure you, that approximately the Ministry of Traffic was trying to find a body in accordance with the requirements of the Ministry of Finance, that is to say, to carry out the savings and that the only legal possibility found to change the status of directorship. Of course, I don't really agree with such an explanation, I will just read the arguments that my colleague Djelic and I have given in submitting our amendment, where it is said that according to Article 28(2). The State Administration Act shall be educated for executive, i.e. inspection and related professional affairs if their nature or size requires greater independence than that of the ministry sector. According to Article 33 of that Law, a special organisation is educated for professional and related executive tasks, whose nature requires greater independence from the body in its composition. So that's exactly what the directorate is referring to. The Waterway Directorate, under the applicable Law on Inland Navigation and Ports, special organisation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is responsible for maintaining and developing international and interstate waterways. The Waterway Directorate is performing narrow-cutting tasks, which by their nature and scope fully fit into the definition of operations carried out by the special organisations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Law on State Administration. It was founded in 1962, as a special institution and with responsibilities in the field of hydrographic measurements, waterway markings, design, implementation in the field of hydrotechnical work, river information services and other narrow-professional engineering and field operations. Special professional institutions, with legal personality, responsible for maintaining inland waterways, exist otherwise in all Danube countries, some of them are our neighbours. I will only list some, Germany, Hungary, Austria, Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria and Ukraine. The status of the Waterway Directorate is equally defined by the existing law. This solution has been obtained through a comparative practice analysis and has gone through all levels of harmonisation at national and European level. The institutions mentioned are identical also with regard to the jurisdiction and manner of organisation in the performance of professional activities. The responsibilities and Waterway Directorates are clearly defined by the applicable Law on navigation and ports on internal waters and represent the overall process of maintaining and developing inland waterways. Since the adoption of the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Water, that is, from October 2010, to this day, there have been no objections to the work of the Waterways Directorate by the Ministry responsible for overseeing the work of the Waterway Directorate, and so I simply do not see a reason why one of these institutions with a duration of 50 years is simply one decree, i.e. by amending the law, to be put out into the authority of the administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8742	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Djelic and Branka Karavidic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8743	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear People's MPs, I will still illustrate from a different angle now, why the proposed change will not save anything, and it will cause direct damage to our country. I therefore appeal to the most well-intentioned, SNS MPs and all other parties who form the ruling majority, to realize that here is not the question that some agency that some EU has imposed on us a few years ago is being abolished, so now some people who have four times the salary, are being caused, by people who do the same or similar work in some ministries, so now it overlaps, so let's do it and it will be useful and be effective. It's just not the case. In this case, we have a directorate that is not in any way engaged in any supervisory affairs that are in the ministry's management, nor is any regulatory body, such as some of them formed, it is here to ensure that safe traffic in the Danube and other rivers and that Serbia has 588 km of Danube and here we are country, here we are geographically given, a leader and bordering with the largest number of Danube countries. We have a strategic chance of making history and geography an economic infrastructure opportunity. But for that we must have institutions, each in its place, the ministry, of course, but in the well-being, according to Serbian tradition, the way some directorates do narrowly professional work. For this reason, we will continue on other amendments, we are appealing to members of all opposition parties, but above all, the parties that are in power now, not to deal with adolescence, because there are no savings here, the damage will be, and that is what the well-intentioned ones, with whom we have collaborated over the past few years in the development of the EU's largest macro-regional strategy. It would be good if we could avoid giving ourselves a car-naked goal, that's what we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8744	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8745	Thank you. This amendment is of a technical nature, but it is also an amendment to Article 17 of the existing law, in my opinion, of a technical nature, but it is not good, so we suggest that there is no such change. It was at the end of Article 17, somewhere the last position, so in the current law it was said to be a second-degree body for acts adopted in the first degree by the Directorate, the ministry. You suggest that instead of the word "minister" stands "minister." I suggest we keep it the way it is, so the word "minister" doesn't change the word "minister." In the light of one previous amendment, you said that this was an alignment of this bill with the Law of the State Administration, which was prescribed that complaints against the first-degree decision of the body in the composition, were resolved by the minister. I think the State Administration Act is older, so to say, that it was passed before the Law on Navigation and Ports, so that there was a need for that kind of alignment, that would be in the first law, especially if you don't apply the same logic here. You're saying that in the first degree, it's brought by the Directorate, and in the second degree by the minister. In order for this to be agreed, it should be stated that it is brought by the Director of the Directorate, as suggested here, to be the person who is at the head of the state authority. We don't think this change of yours makes any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8746	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8747	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in the previous position, attitude 4, you say that users will pay professional services related to the design documentation, the marking of obstacles and objects on the waterway, the conduct of hydrotechnical shootings and hydrotechnical works on waterways for the commercial needs of users. Furthermore, in the same article, but in paragraph 5, you say the level of those taxis will be prescribed by the traffic minister with the agreement of the finance minister. I really don't understand the need for two ministers to do the same job. I would understand if you said it should be done by the finance minister, because he has already announced here in the Assembly, MPs remember well, that he will pass a single regulation that determines the heights of taxis and that's fine. When you have such a unique regulation, then you can appeal to it and say it's the finance minister, but I don't understand that it takes two ministers to agree on one level of tax. With our amendment, we have specified that this should be done by the minister of traffic, that it is his jurisdiction, of course, in accordance with the law that Mr Dinkic has announced, that there will be a single level of taxis and that it is necessary to do so only one minister, that there is no need to complicate, that they have the powers of two ministers to determine one level of taxi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8748	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Djelic and Branka Karavidic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8749	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear People's MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will report last time to this occasion today and appeal to members of the ruling coalition not to simply do any damage to our country. As a driver, on behalf of our country, of developing the EU Strategy for Podunavlje, I am responsible for telling you that if you adopt such a law, during which month one form of such a directive will have to be re-made. Why? Because for project implementation, and we know well that the source of funding for projects that are harder on infrastructure, we will get as much hope from EU donations as possible, and probably from some non-commercial loans, whether Germany is the Bank for Development, the EIB, etc. They will demand that one unit be formed to form such projects. We've got that unit. It's called "Plovput." She's been working for decades, and she's been admitted. To make the paradox bigger, at the end of November of the first anniversary of the EU Danube Strategy, as the organisation that implemented the most successful project funded by the EU, we in Serbia today propose that the institution be abolished, only in order to form a much weaker, different, inexperienced institution that has to do similar jobs. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, the Assistant Ministers, the People's MPs, and I address those who today have a majority in this House, there is no policy in this. This is only one asset that Serbia today has to be one of the leaders in applying and attracting financial resources, donations and non-commercial loans from various sides, which, if these changes and amendments to the law are adopted, will disappear without any savings being realised. That is why I appeal for the last time to preserve the quality where it is, that there is no jealousy where there is no room and to let those who have shown that they can defend the colors of the Republic of Serbia in a nice way, continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8750	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8751	And this amendment of ours has been rejected with the same explanation. It is due to the change in the status of the Directorate, but I would like to join the appeal of my colleague Djelic and ask my fellow MPs to support these proposals, i.e. the insistence that the Directorate remain in the status currently in the law. As for the reasons for our amendment to Article 10, I would say that in accordance with the competences of the Directorate would be the position of a special organisation, the Directorate is obliged to give consent to facilities that can affect international and interstate waterways. This practice has been successful for many years, and has special significance under the realisation of large infrastructure facilities. The Directorate only has experience, necessary bases and a huge database, which is a guarantee that international navigation will not be compromised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8752	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8753	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this response to the amendment is a true paradigm of how you have double criteria when you evaluate our amendments. In the amendment I had previously talked about, which concerns the level of taxis to be prescribed by the minister of traffic, along with the finance minister, there were two ministers who had jurisdiction, but when it comes to this amendment, this member refers to the transport of dangerous waste, here you are asking that only the Ministry of Interior have exclusive jurisdiction. It's interesting because two laws are very connected. I remember when we brought them here. One is the law on waste management, and the other is the law on the transport of hazardous waste. These two laws are extremely connected. I know that when we brought them in, the Environment Committee had an opinion on this law. The Ministry of Environmental Protection is very closely connected to this matter. In our opinion, in this case, jurisdiction should be double. It's supposed to be the M.O.P., but it's also the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The two laws are very connected, a very important area for environmental protection in Serbia. Our opinion is that you will make a mistake if you do not adopt our amendment. A team before there are documents in Serbia, such as the Sustainable Development Strategy, which sees environmental protection as the third pillar of sustainable development. We have really done a lot in this area, and it is very important that, when transporting and hazardous waste, we take care of the protection of the environment. I think those two ministries, the Ministry of Environment Protection and the Ministry of Environment, should be in charge of this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8754	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament member Donka Banovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8755	This article 19, in fact, introduces this article, I think, about 12 or 13 new members of this law. This is due to the decision to abolish the Waterway Directorate, as a special organisation and to include it as part of the Ministry. These new members are nothing more than rules, regulations, technical rules, etc., which were in force and which were adopted by the Directorate. It's in the bill now. Otherwise, this amendment refers to a new member of the Law, which discusses regular inspections of water facilities. In particular, it refers to the deadlines for conducting regular examinations. This article includes certain groups of objects, and the amendment applies to passenger ships, tankers and other ships carrying dangerous goods, and steel structure glaciers, that the deadline for conducting their regular examination is five years. The amendment proposes that the deadline for a regular review be shorter and that it be three years. This discussion of mine is somehow related to the discussion of my colleague, Milice Vojić-Markovic, who also spoke of the ecological aspect of this bill, that today when we talk about our rivers, we must say that they are up to three times more polluted than rivers in some other countries. The importance of the regularity of passenger ships, not to mention. In the previous year, there have been several incidents, let me say, a disaster, where large passenger ships, I'm not talking about Serbia, I'm talking about passenger ships from Europe, have suffered a terrible carnage, where there have been human casualties. We believe that when it comes to the transport of humans, it is not burned that these technical checks are carried out more often and also when it comes to the transport of dangerous substances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8756	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milica Vojić Markovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8757	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are important corridors for Serbia. We've been talking about one landman for a long time, about Corridor 10, but there's this other waterhouse, Corridor 7, which is also very important to us and about whom we know very little and talk little. The potential for water corridor 7 was more intensely used in earlier years, especially between the '50s and the '80s. In that period, Serbia, by the number of vessels in the Danube, was, for example, second and third. It's a long way behind today, and it's a long time, because instead of making progress, we went one step back. In the early 1990s, the number of vessels decreased and navigation was cut due to armed conflicts, the country's collapse, the introduction of sanctions. In the mid-90s, sailing was restored and Serbian shipmen were on board the Danube until 1999. Then NATO's aggression and the destruction of bridges completely prevented it from sailing, and then came the period of bomb removal, explosive devices, the construction of the Freedom Bridge in 2005. In recent years, the volume of services is about 50% less than, say, 1990, which is the potential that we have actually brought into poor shape and actually, we're back, 20 years behind what we had, or 50% less than 20 years ago. In 2007, for example, shipping companies owned about 350 vessels, which were over 40 years old. It is about what I have suggested, believing it is necessary to fully or replace the long-term elements of the equipment for the rescue of people, also to enter as an element of Article 90a, as you have baptized him here, where it is said about the preparation of the ship's troops to carry out a regular examination and must include the following elements. One of these elements is that I have listed, complete or replaced, lasting elements to save people. There are a few other things that are important to us and that we need to talk about. Domestic passenger traffic almost does not exist, but the number of foreign ships in our passenger ports is increasing. That's what we need to know and what we need to keep working on. In that sense, abolishing this directorate really won't contribute to a better one. In our cargo river ports and small ports, over 6.5 million tonnes of goods are loaded annually, and given the age of our vessels, what we have suggested, and I have to say something else, there are over a thousand people working here in this activity and about a thousand other people working in ports and ports, which is not a small number of people on board, and that is why we believe that this amendment that I have proposed, which is the complete or replacement of the time-consuming elements of human life-saving equipment, must be entered into this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8758	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8759	This member speaks, i.e. the title above this member is the revenue from carrying out technical surveillance. There has been a change in the content of that article, or attitudes, and the title is about the same. Otherwise, this is about the amount of tax charged to provide a professional service of technical supervision and that the level of the tax is determined by the minister responsible for traffic operations. However, what the proposer is still proposing is that all of this by the minister responsible for traffic operations must ask for approval, or consent from the finance minister in charge. We have here that one minister, who is in charge of traffic operations, must ask for consent from another minister. I wonder, why do we need those two ministers anyway? It is enough then that we only have a finance minister, who will determine fees and fees in all areas, including in the area of traffic. This is a change that goes through the entire law in many places. It's like, even those who apply this law tomorrow know who's been making these changes and who, for God's sake, cares about rationalizing the state administration. The law says in many places that the decision is made by the minister of traffic, but with the agreement of the finance minister. Again, I wonder – what will the minister of traffic do, let them compensate, fees and fees from the finance minister in the first place, and that will be respected by everyone in Serbia. Also, these changes remind what is in the light of this bill, which is that this is a bill that comes from the Ministry of Finance and that no consultations with interested structures have been carried out. So, no traffic minister has been consulted and there are no consulted people working in this area. I am sorry that Mr. Mrkonjic is not here to explain to us that he may have denied me and to say that he participated in these changes and that he is fully in agreement with the introduction of these amendments, with the abolition of the directorate and that he is pleased to be in the position of who, for many things in his ministry, will seek the consent of the finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8760	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8761	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 126 is practically linked to the previous article 125, in the old law, and according to the new article 30, the revenue from conducting the examination and the technical supervision of the construction of the boat, the floating body and the floating object. In this Article 126, or 31, in the new law, you say – for the provision of the professional service of reviewing and technical supervision referred to in Article 125(3) of this Act, a tax shall be paid. Again, you say - the amount of the fee charged for providing the service referred to in Article 1 shall be determined by the minister, with the agreement of the Minister in charge of finance affairs. Again, the same duplication that we feel is not necessary and we feel again that we should leave the Minister of Transport to do his job or give everything that needs to be done in this country to the Minister of Finance and that he is signing all the laws and that he prescribes us all taxes and everything else. Accordingly, we consider our amendment acceptable. Take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8762	Anyone else want a word? (No) Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8763	Thank you. This member is talking about conducting an expert exam, so it's a change for the crew of the ship, for the merchant navy, etc., I don't have time to count it all. It is a matter of passing an expert examination and professional training of employees. The change is that the expert exam is passed before a commission educated by the minister for a period of four years. It's not a big change, except it's a deadline for that commission's duration. However, what our amendment refers to is who bears the costs of passing an expert exam. The legislator proposes that the costs of passing the expert exam be borne by the person who passed the expert exam, and we propose, by this amendment, that the costs of passing the professional examination for the person bear the employer who will pay the bill prescribed for the public revenue of the budget. Your explanation shows that passing an expert exam is something that a person, or employee, does for his personal professional training. That's right. But if we want as many people as we can stay in the country, then we can have an employer who's interested in doing that face with him and make it as professional as possible, to help with the costs of that expert exam. At one time, in the education of the state exam, the cost was always borne by an educational institution, or if you did not pass from the first or second time, for the third time by the person who passed that state and professional examination of salaries. It's not a good thing we're starting to break that practice. If a young man wants to perfect himself professionally, very often as a major problem for passing that expert exam, and when those formal conditions are met, there is not enough money to pay that fee, tax, etc. That's why he needs help, and who's better than the one who's interested in working with him?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8764	Anyone else want a word? (No) Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8765	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the previous amendment I was talking about, I started talking about the number of people who are employed in this area on the inland waterways. Some 900 people were employed in domestic waterway traffic at the end of 2008 and about 800 people in the works of ports and ports. Total revenues from traffic and services in 2007 amounted to about 2.6 billion dinars or 48 million dollars, of which foreign exchange revenues were 22 million, with a positive balance of 12 million. Gross domestic water transport product in 2007 was 889m dinars, which is $15.2m, and foreign exchange revenues were $21.3m. Why was I talking about these numbers? So few people work in this area first. The data is from 2008. In the last four years, a lot of people have lost their jobs, over 200,000 people. I didn't find any other data. The data I found was the only data that could be found. There's probably less now. Of that number, about 2,000 people have very few who are starting to work and who are due to take a professional exam. We believe that the state is obliged to take care of this, first because this is an area that is a great potential for development and a great opportunity for future employment. She's making a profit. I was talking about some profit here compared to the number of people who are employed. The state really needs to make sure that it helps these people, that the employer pays them to pass an expert exam, even if it's the first time that the employer pays him, and in some other circumstances he doesn't pay him. You have very few employees here who are underpaid. They're poor people, and I think it's really necessary to take care of that and that the employer pays for passing an expert exam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8766	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Bozidar Djelic and Branka Karavidic together submitted to the 39th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8767	This amendment applies to the Directorate. The current law states that the Directorate prescribes a way of organising a river information service, technical specifications for equipment and services, means of issuing a type-approval certificate and training in connection with the management of a river information service. This is now being given to the ministry in the amendments and additions to this law. I will read a few sentences that my colleague Djelic and I have given in the light of our amendment. The technical characteristics of the system and services provided by the river information service are standardised at the European level of the European Directive. The applicable Law on navigation and ports on inland waterways defines the Waterways Directorate as an operator. The operational user of RIS implementation projects in Serbia is the Waterway Directorate, funded through EU IPA funds and as such is the only one established in RS for the implementation and development of services provided by river information services. On the basis of the above, there is no reason for the Minister to subsequently prescribe the way RIS is organised and set up, i.e. the objectives and functions of RIS and everything else proposed in Article 39. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. I'd just like to say that since this is going to be the last call, I'd like to remind you once of what my colleague Djelic and I have already said. I cannot understand whether the amendment of this law has taken into account the leading role of the Directorate-General in the implementation of projects in the field of internal waterways under the Danube Strategy and the potential negative impact of the change of status on the implementation of future EU-funded plans? By changing the status of the institution, the institution loses its independence, which is one of the necessary conditions for financing and realising the project. Once again, I ask all my fellow Members to reconsider and accept these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8768	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8769	This is still the last time, Mr. Galic and the Honorable Minister. For the professional public, the matter is very clear. This shouldn't be adopted like that. I think the damage will be significant. She won't be seen right away, but she'll be visible very soon. When we have a directorate who's won the prize for the best project in the Podunov domain in the last few years. She succeeded in the budget, out of donations, on time, without any doubt in any correctness of what was done, to establish a so-called interest path, i.e. management of the Danube. It's a shame that the very little professional and successful that we have in the professional administration, instead of raising it and making an example of it, we're trying to end it here. For this reason, I would just like to tell the Minister and colleagues from the government, especially fellow Mrkonjic, who is actually in charge of this topic, that he is expected to be founded by the port agency, because by law that this same structure, here is Mr Galić, and Mr Mrkonjic has proposed a law a year or two ago, I don't know exactly, I think it is two years, which is supposed to form an agency for ports. Now we're removing a directive that works according to the rules of the state service, and tomorrow, according to the law, one agency should be formed. It would be rationalisation if we had the merger of these two institutions in a way that these people were not paid more than the people who work in the ministry and that perhaps in a rational way we could ensure the functioning of what is a significant natural resource that we don't fully exploit, which is 588km of water Danube, where all other countries envy us. Some investments made in the past need more. A project that provides safe sailing. Thirteen ports, it is too much, which have international status, but it is certain that when we know very well that between Enca, Austria, and Constanta, at the very end, on the Black Sea, there is no large port on the Danube, so Serbia must have institutions, attention and a strategy for that port to be in Serbia, to create a multimodal checkpoint around it, to get logistics behind it, to cross the Danube highway, railways and air-transport and to be a real magnet for investment. Honorable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is this some kind of policy? I think this is state policy, and that is why I appeal to the MPs of the majority not to go this way and not to make it harder for all of us in our country and to preserve this directive that is least deserved to be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8770	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 23rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Planning and Construction Act. You have received an amendment submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic on the bill. You have received the opinion of the Government and the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Djordje Milicevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8771	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, I do not think it is necessary absolutely to accept the amendment of counterpart Milicevic, who is much different from what was proposed by the text of the law by the government. Why does this law only have one amendment? Because we didn't get any new text of the Planning and Construction Act. So this law only changes one member, but one very important member. That's what we pointed to during the debate in principle. The Law on Planning and Construction, at the time of the promotion of a major fight against corruption, allows all those who privatised enterprises or bought companies in bankruptcy or executive proceedings for one dinar, 100 dinars or thousands of euros to build on land of millions of value. So we're talking about bringing huge injustices into our society this way. We are aware that the privatisation process has made an injustice and we were all aware of it in 2010 when we passed this law on planning and building, voted in this assembly, that all those who privatised the companies and paid in the privatisation of the company less than the value of the land can build on that land until they have paid to the full market value of the land. I repeat, I don't see how this can be in the citizens' interest and that we now lift a provision saying that everyone has to pay up to the full value of the land. I don't see how that can be in the interest of this congregation. I don't see how that could be in the government's best interest. I ask the SNS, the SPS, which are coalition partners with Mr. Ilic, are they aware of what law Mr. Ilic has suggested that we adopt? This is a law that will allow... (President: Mr. Konstantinovic, just to remind you, the debate in principle is over. I'm talking about the amendment. This is an amendment discussion, a member of the law that is being amended, and it is one member that is changing, and it is therefore one of the only amendments tabled by counterpart Djordje Milicevic, practically in the same text, as suggested by Mr Velimir Ilic. So I ask the question – are you aware that we will enable all those who are cheap, the Buddha why buy the privatisation companies to build land worth millions of euros and that when they build the buildings, they will also become land owners? On behalf of the DS, I demand that this law be withdrawn from the procedure. There's still a chance of doing it today. I urge Mr Ilic and the coalition partners to withdraw this law today, because we are going to make a huge injustice against the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8772	Thank you. The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8773	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you saw for yourself that I didn't want to report for the amendments, so I wouldn't take your time. Now in the end, since you know for yourself that today's session of the government begins in an hour, I just want to comment on this whole thing. We have seen it all, analyzed it, and we believe that what was proposed is currently the best thing for Serbia. We appeal to the MPs to support us. We know from your discussions, from the amendment that you wanted to fix something, change it. We know there was no public procurement. We know there was a problem with the Construction Act. We know it's all been, but it's got to end. We know it wasn't paid. We know that these days you pay intensively and there was no money to pay all of a sudden. You know it was supposed to be sold to Telecom and all that settled down. That's not what happened. It was a big bite, and it was good that in Serbia some cities were given schools, kindergartens, etc. You know there's been a campaign, that there's been everything, that the elections have been transferred to the new government and, of course, now we have problems, until New Year's Eve, we're trying to pay off everything. Hundreds of millions of these bills are paid daily. We'll hold out somehow and we'll have to finish that. So I'm saying, a lot of you are right, but what's started has to end. We know about the directorate that there was a debate about whether to shut down, why it's shutting down, etc. Nothing shuts down, people stay to work, they're just under the Ministry's jurisdiction, not completely independent. I'm listening to you now, and I want to comment. You know, as a minister, I've set up this leadership there and I've worked a lot to do the best in the country, to have a strategy, to have a plan for Sava to live, to make the Danube work at Apatino, to finish, to increase the wateriness, to reconstruct many ports, to arrange, to build a new port at Kovin, which was a project. But when an analysis is made, let's be realistic, so I understand all of you who have defended here, everything will remain the same, people will work professionally, the projects will work, but they will be under government and ministry control more. Now that it's being analyzed, here, the other day in the government, it's not the only one since I've been a minister in three governments, the official path to someone, and that's the "Plovput" going to the delegation to America. I can tell you that before that, people were in Japan, Indonesia, Canada. She's all here, they haven't gone to Whisper, people, to Brcko, but that's why they've been in Japan for days, spent all over the world for months. It's a society one, it's gathered, it's had a bit of money. That's where it was given, you know how. It's just that they decided to pass the world a little bit. (Chairman: Mr. Ilich, I must warn you to return to the agenda, please. I'm sorry, I'm done. It is true that the Law on Planning and Construction will change in six months. You'll have a new law here to regulate all this. No tycoon, as you call it, who has had an unfair privatisation will be spared the ability to build and work, to worship him. You know we're now running checks on all these controversial privatisations. These privatisations you're talking about are under review by certain institutions in this country. If it's okay, they'll be able to build, get permits to the law, and then the conversion issue will be resolved, because it'll be a common issue for all of us to resolve it. The world and the banks don't know about it. The European Union, no one will talk about conversion. In Belgrade, I repeat, during the term of office of the previous government only one conversion was made throughout Belgrade. If that's the future, and that 27 acres is paid, Belgrade and Serbia, to keep it that way, then we will uphold the law. We got consent from all the institutions that exist in this country. A lot of people said it wasn't right. No negative opinion has arrived. In this country, 26 institutions, which are relevant, asked to do so. Therefore, no one will have the opportunity to earn anything. Certain obligations will be paid to all, and everyone who works will be granted permits from the city of Belgrade, from other cities where it happens, etc. Nothing's going to change, it's just going to pick up something in construction that was a brake, up to the new law. I repeat, the new law is done, in six months it will be here in parliament. Thank you very much, thank you for your cooperation. I wanted to say hello to you in the end, and I was glad to cooperate, to discuss all this. Somewhere we didn't agree, somewhere we did, and you'll be there tomorrow, some government, some opposition again, someone in the government, we'll see, but we need to push this together. Our intentions are good. Therefore, support these laws and we will be grateful to you, because we hope it will be better for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8774	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding the search... (Hope Kolundji, from the city: "I'm sorry, but we've come to the floor. " You didn't sign up on time. First, MP Ljuban Panic signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8775	I'm reporting for the amendment. Since I don't see any excessive difference between the amendment itself and Article 2 of the law that is proposed, of course I don't support this amendment. I'm sorry the minister came out. He talked more here about official trips to Indonesia, etc. Just to make it clear to the citizens what this is all about, it's a very simple matter. I know that when people look at the congregation, when we talk about members, principles, etc., very often they lose the essence. It's about the next one. It is said that this law is passed to revive the construction industry. She didn't even come into trouble because of this law and its changes from earlier years, but because of the economic crisis. As many as six months or a year from now, someone will have to explain to the public why this construction industry hasn't come back to life in a time of crisis now that this law has been passed like this. It's not a lot of land, it's only about 2% of the land that is subject to conversion and for which compensation has to be paid. It's also that it's the most attractive land. To make it clear to the citizens, it is 44m euros that someone invested in "Luke Belgrade" and gets 200 hectares of the city's most exclusive land, worth at least ten times as much. This is about a law that tests honesty to fight corruption to the end, because it casts doubts about the fight against corruption. Why? Because the people who are here, this is just one example, "Luku Belgrade" was offered to pay for that conversion for 20 years, offered to deduct from the amount necessary for the conversion and the funds invested...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8776	Mr Panic, I remind you that the debate on the principle of law is over and that we should return to the debate on amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8777	I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8778	I've read the amendment, so please return to the amendment debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8779	It is that someone with all these conditions refused the official state authorities then to convert the country and pay for it, to choose to visit people at a stronger post and to welcome that after winning the former opposition, with whose bed they were sitting, today they get a law that represents nothing but what we all stand for, and that is to correct the injustice.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8780	Mr. Panic, once again I warn you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8781	This is the topic, the Honorable Chairman. Because someone in this country bought a company, paid 10 times less than that land's worth, they'll make 10 times as much. We need to verify it here today, and to be used, I'm not going to say fake, I'm going to say false, I'm going to say untrue, I'm going to have to explain that the construction industry is going to come back to life. I tell the citizens that today someone for their merits to the former opposition, that for 10 times less money invested, they will earn much more, because this government has supported and that in the fight against corruption, which we absolutely support, because it is normal, there are clearly those in Serbia who are also the ones who avoid that fight, or who do not take this fight on the basis of some old merits. How much in six months or a year we'll see what credit it was. What's the fact and what I'm going to ask you in six months or a year is, did this construction industry come back to life? Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8782	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8783	The President-in-Office, in order to be understood in advance, so as not to interrupt me because you obviously do not know exactly what the content of this law and of the article we are discussing, or the amendment that is being discussed today, I will read it out loud, so that the citizens of Serbia know that when we talk about what we are talking about, we are talking about exactly the subject on the agenda. Article 2 of the Law says – the holder of the right to use under Article 103 paragraph 1 may exercise the right to build...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8784	Please, Mrs. Kolundjia, in order to be precise, if you are already reading, read how the amendment reads, not Article 2 of the Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8785	Please, you're obviously new and you're not doing well. When we talk about a member of the law and an amendment, then he's also a member of the law of the subject and the amendment is the subject. Please, we'd still have to learn so much by now. So, I'm talking about a member of the law to which the amendment applies and I have every right to quote, within the time of the parliamentary group, a member of the law so that citizens know what the Government is proposing and so that citizens know why we do not support the amendment proposed by the MP. Please, you'd have to know so much. Therefore, a member of the law says that the right to build new buildings can be exercised, i.e. construction, reconstruction of existing facilities in accordance with the purpose of land established by valid planning documents within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law without providing evidence of land conversion in accordance with the law. It is a member of the law we are discussing and an amendment tabled by MP Milicevic, who is not fundamentally different from the proposed member of the law. That's why a member of the law and amendments are important. Why can't we support the whole of this law, and thus Mr. Milicevic's amendment? This law provides for the abolition, this article envisions the abolition of the conversion of the right to use land in property rights. So, the purpose of the law that is changing today and to remind you again, we are talking about the law today, the amendments and the additions of the law, and we are only talking about certain parts of the Construction Act. So, when the Law was passed on to build the intention was that those holders of the right to use over land that had come to the right to dispose of land, but not to the right to property, and who were trying to turn that right of possession into a right of property to prevent them from coming to that right of property without adequate compensation. So let me make it simple for the citizens to understand what this is all about. Someone buys a company that doesn't work. Buy it for small money because it's a property company that's expensive, and then that company shuts down its core activity and tries to turn it into property rights, decides to sell it to someone as a building plot to build it or to be an investor and build it on land that's 10 times, and sometimes 100 times more valuable than the price he paid for the social enterprise he bought. If someone can give one single argument against the raids that the most important social resource in each environment is not given in vain, but that local self-government and state charges, as anyone who goes to buy building land, buys it at market price. So they are the only ones privileged and this law, that is, this member of the law, actually allows a few individuals to be absolutely singled out from every legal rule that applies to all other citizens. Every other citizen when he goes to buy construction land has to pay for it at market price. Only these, as my colleague said, are 2% of the land and the argument that this is holding back the construction industry is completely incorrect, because 98% of the building land you can build without pre-conversion of social, or right of use in property rights. This is about 2%. If we go in line now and see names and last names then we come up with something that's a matter of politics. So, for now, this can be a question of rights and not rights, a question of the inequality of citizens and bringing certain people into a privileged position compared to 99% of other citizens, and if we see their names, then we can ask the question – what policy is it when the Government proposes this law and it is very simple to conclude. It is a policy that makes it a favor to those who apparently did this policy during the previous period a favor. This is, among other things, an unequivocal matter of "Beka" and "The Port of Belgrade". So "Luka Belgrade" was bought at a price that is multiple, tenfold and much more cheap than the value of building land on which the company is located. This law allows "Luka Belgrade" to cease to exist as "Luka Belgrade" and to build exclusive settlements on that land at the prices that I think will be the most expensive. That's what buys Luke Belgrade for a price that's a few times smaller... (President: Mrs. Kolundjia, will you tell me again that you're talking about the subject? Of course, to talk about the law, the law regulates that. (President: You're talking about the law in principle, I'm telling you all the time. We also listened to that story when there was a debate in principle. No, no, no. The principle law is one member. Allow me, please, therefore, the principle law is one member who has this amendment. So you can't tell me that I'm not talking about the subject because the subject of this law is exactly what I'm talking about, the amendment that's filed concerns that law. I really ask you to respect the basic rule of debate in particular. I'm talking about Article 2 of the Law and the amendment that has been filed on that Article 2. If you don't let me make the argument why the DS is against this law and why they won't vote for this amendment, then it's quite clear that you have a feeling of awkwardness from the truth. That's the only reason you're interrupting me right now. You're uncomfortable hearing what the essence of this law is. It is uncomfortable for you, quite certain, that the citizens will hear what this ruling majority wants to do with this law and who exactly by name they want to do with it. (President: Go back to the topic, Mrs. Kolundjia, most beautiful please. ) The theme is among other things and the way you conduct the session. You can't interrupt me when I'm talking about the agenda. Madam Chairman, the subject of the agenda is a member of the 2nd Act which suspends conversion. (President: I apologize, I will remind you, the subject of the agenda is not a member of the 2nd Law, the subject of the agenda is an amendment to Article 2 of the Law and I try to explain it to you all the time. Indeed, if you think so, I forgive you for your ignorance and inexperience. If you think it's possible to talk about the amendment, not talk about the law, then you really don't understand anything. I'm really sorry, and I totally understand. Here, I'm not going to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure after this because you really hurt him several times the most seriously. So I'm not going to advertise it because I'm really taking it as an inexperience. So if you think it's possible to talk about the amendment and not talk about a member of the law, then you really don't understand. Please, we're here to discuss a member of the law and an amendment to that article. In order for me to be able to tell the citizens why the amendment is unacceptable, I must also say how the law and the consequences of this law are, that is, the consequences of the amendments relating to that member of the law. Please, I think you really need to understand this already. I've tried to explain it a few times. I believe you'll understand that now. The essence of the amendment that has been submitted is absolutely no different from the bill itself, which is why it is unacceptable. So, that the amendment proposed that Article 2 of the Law be abolished or that it could not begin construction, that the amendment proposed that it could not begin construction until the conversion was obtained, or evidence of conversion, and that the citizens would understand, proof that you paid the value of the land as much as that land is worth. So, evidence that you didn't take the most valuable resource at a pointless low price and increase the price in sales several dozen times. So that's what this is about. Someone who bought something for a single dinar will now sell it for 100 dinars because you suggest to Article 2 that the conversion to land purchased, or land not purchased, be abolished, but the land on which social enterprises are purchased in the privatisation process. It is clear that any argument that only one conversion has been made does not give any right to the legislator to solve this problem in this way. Therefore, if there were insufficiently precise instruments to convert, if there were insufficiently clear criteria for conversion, if there was an inability of local communities or state institutions to make conversion, then the law should provide for strengthening these institutions, strengthening these criteria and establishing a mechanism in which the conversion would result. So by proposing to suspend conversion, it can be explained however you want, it is a matter of political will to meet and do economic services, a huge economic service, a few individuals, at the expense of 99% of Serbian citizens. Citizens of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Sudotica, Pirota, etc. will be damaged for huge amounts of money, to which they would otherwise have a partial right, by abolishing this provision, which was defined by Article 2 and which, by the amendment of Mr Milicevic, has absolutely not been amended. Once again, I call on the ruling majority who swears to fight corruption, that fighting corruption is not a media campaign, that the fight against corruption must not be selective, it must not have favorites. By this law, you single out favorites for whom the fight against corruption does not apply. And then this law becomes a means of dealing with political insinuators, because corruption comes down to the persecution of political opponents, which seems enormous, I repeat, the enormous benefit of individuals who have stood by some political parties, which today make up the ruling majority. So that's the essence of this law. With this law, the ruling majority and Mr. Vukic disqualified themselves to be truly representatives of the anti-corruption fighter.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8786	I ask you to really go back on the subject, and that is the debate on the amendment, let me tell you, you can laugh as much as you want, regardless of the explanation, Mrs. Kolundzija, because I really believe that this debate was about the law in principle, not about Mr. Milicevic's amendment, which Mrs. Kolundzija herself said did not change much of a member of the law. I think we should get back to the subject. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mrs. Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8787	Madam Chairman, I find it extremely uncomfortable for you to chair the Assembly in this way and to warn you of Article 103. Indeed, please try to understand what the content of this law is, and if you understand what the contents of this law and the contents of Article 2 which the amendment applies to, then you will see that in no single word have I come out of the subject, nor have I or my colleagues, that you have broken the Rules of Procedure roughly as Chairman, because you have interrupted the MPs who spoke essentially about the subject. If you don't understand the subject, at least let the debate run without interference. If you do not understand what it means to respect the subject when it comes to members of the law and amendments to those members of the law, then I ask you to let MPs speak on the subject, because it is not a problem if the MP speaking of the subject uses the argument that you like, the problem is that you do not allow the MP to justify his reasons why he cannot support one amendment or the whole law. Allow me, in the final debate on amendments, we can declare the whole of the law, and you do not understand the procedure in the National Assembly. We can in the final debate, because this law has only three members, we can finally state about the whole of the law, regardless of what the debate is in particular, and that is the rule, as the minister can at the end of the debate explain the whole of the law, regardless of what we have discussed the amendments. Please, let someone teach you, or if you can't, let the MPs, to honor the Rules of Procedure, do what their business is.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8788	Mrs. Kolundji, thank you for your well-intentioned criticism, I believe they are well-intentioned. However, if you had advertised Article 103 and, as you said, you are a long MP, member of 103, regulates the violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, if you've advertised Article 103 and told me that I've hurt, because I'm interrupting MPs, it really has nothing to do with Article 103. Rules of Procedure, you should have called on another member, but fine. Never mind. Let's move on. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8789	I expected the minister to say something to me instead, the minister came out of the O.R. and didn't respond. I want to warn all the MPs who are now in the O.R. and all those who are watching us. If we were to adopt this amendment, or if we were to vote for the adoption of the law, I think we would make the best and the right example of political corruption. It's political corruption. When you pass one law, or you adopt one amendment, which is seen exactly who it suits, which is seen to have been done exactly for certain people who have privatised in this country and I want to tell the citizens, just to imagine how much motive there is for someone who has to pay the conversion of 120m euros, how much motive it has to agree with the minister and with the government that one such law or one such amendment should be adopted in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8790	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8791	Thank the chairman, respected fellow MPs, as regards the amendment of counterpart Djordj Milicevic, he is motivated solely for reasons to improve the text of the law in the technical section. Whether he's compatible with the legal text or not is for another grade. However, what is imputed does not stand all the time. The SPS as part of the government is not for abolishing conversion, nor has any of the SPS representatives gone in that direction when it was determined under the provisions of this law that the conversion should be abolished. The conversion was to be systematised in the second law, in the Law on Public Property, possibly, and to criticise the suspension and speak at all about the suspension in this way is inappropriate for a simple reason, which left the conversion as a legal institute and survived as a legal institute. But let's not just talk, focus this legal institute on tycoons or tycoonisation, but on the complete situation relating to building regulation and the incentive of building operations in terms of their activation and construction. I have to remind the MPs here, because here all the time it points to alleged corruption, or corrupt law. Who passed the privatisation law on the basis of which it was made possible by the same, which is now indicated to be buying enterprises, i.e. pejoranically to say, a Buddha why, or for one dinar? The Socialist Party of Serbia did not participate in such a law and did not participate. It is precisely this law that allows companies first to be sold for enormously small amounts, almost nothing, not to mention cements, sugars, etc. and now that we are in a situation where the Law on Planning and Construction needs to be changed objectively and a new law on planning and construction should be passed, clearly differentiated against the Law on Public Property, we are now talking about political corruption or I don't know what. So who's the political corruption affirmation in the adoption of the privatisation law? In order not to get away from the subject, I believe that this amendment, which in the technical sense of the word, is motivated only by improving the quality of the law, should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8792	Mrs. Kolundjia, do you want a replica, right? By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8793	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you see we can discuss whether privatisation is done well or not. Of the 24 privatisations on the agenda of the European Commission, which is required by the verifications, was at the time of the government supported by the party, whose previous speaker is being rewarded from the privatisation. Therefore, the point is that this amendment, i.e. a member of the law and amendments that only technically corrects the law, does not change its essence, if privatisation is considered unfair and that enterprises have been sold for nothing, rewards those who have come so cheaply to these social enterprises, by now allowing them to build or sell on land that they have not paid at all, which they have received for free, at the cost of building land in Belgrade, Novi Sad and other cities of this country. That's what this is about. The story of this law not suspending conversion is completely incorrect. In order to avoid any confusion, therefore, Mr Milicevic's amendment to Article 2 of this Law reads - the holder of the right to use under Article 103(1) of the Law may exercise the right to build new objects, i.e. to build and reconstruct existing objects in accordance with the purpose of the land, established by a valid document within 12 months. So he can build on social land that he hasn't paid for since the day of entry into force of this law, without delivering evidence of the land conversion made in accordance with the law. Try to imagine that this is not a suspension of conversion and that this does not literally allow, that the land purchased in the privatisation process as social enterprises, and for the land no single dinar is paid, now becomes something that is available to whoever bought the social enterprise, can build on it, can do whatever they want and can earn enormously much from what he paid. I don't think it's fair to try to hide something that's so obvious. It is so obvious and cannot be hidden that this article 2 and Mr Milicevic's amendment suspends the obligation that he who bought the social enterprise and did not pay any single dinar for the land can now have and own the land, in the sense that he can build on it. Luka Belgrade will no longer be a port, it will be an exclusive settlement in which Beko will earn huge funds, which I believe most Serbian citizens can't imagine the number of figures, what a man's profit is, which the current parliamentary majority is due for the merits of the election campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8794	Replica, Mr. Jovanovic? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8795	First of all, there's nothing to hide here, so I don't know what's hidden or hidden at all. In this situation where the Institute of Conversion is trying to look at itself in a way that cannot honestly be observed, the conversion here is not lifted if the same member of the law provides that no proof is required to obtain a local permit, a building permit, a useful permit, especially for those investors and builders who are absolutely safe, why are we not talking about them, but we are talking about tycoons? Why don't we talk about those who are in huge financial difficulties because of wrong privatisations, going bankrupt because of these extremely bad privatisations, as executive procedures? No, that's not what you're talking about. It's not true that the suspended conversion is in terms of payment. The payment obligation remains and survives, but only with the difference that everything that is legally envisaged to be obtained through everything I have pointed out, from the location permit, to the use of the permit is facilitated. Again, we are talking about five-six people, who we call tycoons, and we forget about all those who need it, who go bankrupt every day, because of these situations. Every day, a huge number of people lose their jobs. The reminders for the sake of this, the SPS, since the colleague pointed out that I allegedly did not say something that was not true, the SPS was not in the government and was not part of the government and part of the government, when the Privatisation Act was adopted, which generated all these problems. I repeat, he generated all these problems that we're talking about, which is why the fight against corruption is now in motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8796	Replica, Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8797	The Honorable Chairman, what I say is, you can claim this isn't a suspension, but if someone can build it without prioring the evidence of conversion, then it's a suspension. In addition, the minister has said here several times in public that a new law on construction is being drafted and that this law will abolish the conversion. So this is the initial step so that we don't apply conversion to get to the point where the law shuts down that conversion. So I don't think you should try to hide something that's so clear, you don't even have to explain it. Privatisations, if they are done so that someone bought for less money something worth a lot of money, then we must not reward those who can now because of this law, and land that they have not paid at all to get free, and that city building land, most often in the most exclusive locations throughout all the places in Serbia. So what's obvious - it's obvious, unfortunately. If you think that you can deny facts to harm facts, then it's simply not true. The facts survive, and no matter what anyone claims, and the facts are just this. One more thing, 23 privatisations, which are controversial by the European Commission, were carried out at a time when the SPS supported the minority government, Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8798	Replica, Nenad Constantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8799	I don't think my colleague Jovanovic understood me well in the presentation, and he didn't understand the part in the law that mentioned the word - bankruptcy. So, it's not helping anyone here who might go bankrupt, it's helping those who bought companies in bankruptcy for free, bought companies in privatisation. The second thing, not to be abolished, but said the minister, my political commitment is to abolish the conversion, and now we're subsiding it for the next 12 months, so we're going to abolish it, just to prepare the law. This is about another worse thing. The conversion is not abolished for the citizens. All citizens who want to build in this country have to make a conversion. All those who acquired land before 2003, by decision of a competent authority, a municipality or a city, must pay compensation to make a conversion to build. So for them, it's not abolished, it's just abolished for those who bought for nothing in privatisation or bankrupt companies. So, not only is it injustice, it's discrimination against other people in this country. Please, don't lead the public astray that it's some sort of current suspension, so when you get a local permit or use it, then something's going to count. It won't count because if you get a building permit, you build a facility, you get a used permit, you become the owner of the land, because then it's built building land and all the land on that property is yours and you can register as the owner of the land. So, this bill and this amendment allow both tycoons and some others, all who got land for free, to build on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8800	Thank you. Replica, MP Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8801	Since the president of our political party has been mentioned and, given that there is one untruth for months, I am taking this opportunity to respond to it. First, I want to say the DSS supports the fight against corruption and has never shared cases of whether controversial privatisations or anything that has been problematic in one, second or third government. We believe that everything needs to be questioned and everyone responsible should answer. Since the former president of the DS, the tour has been constantly seeking that out of 24 privatisations, 23 were during the time of the government headed by Mr Vojislav Kostunica. It should be said that these are 24 objects. We can now list when these 24 items were – "Sartid", National Savings Centre, "Yugormedia", EU sugar exports, "Putnik", "Gallenika", "Serbian", "Nuba", "Built of Construction". There's mass and none of them were at that time, but it's not controversial. We don't understand why it's being pointed out all the time, and what does he want to get away from? What's the point of that story? We believe that any privatisation or any business that has been disputed should be examined, but the way we are imputed to us that we are responsible for some privatisations, for some jobs, absolutely does not stand here. We'll never accept that. At the end of the line, these tycoons, which are now most said to have destroyed the government and the possibility of Vojislav Kostunica forming a government in 2008, and supported precisely those that are now mentioned to build a government, along with Manter, with people from Shakespeare in 2008. Whose side were the tycoons on then? If they were grateful to Vojislav Kostunica, I hope they wouldn't tear him down, but they would support him. They supported someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8802	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nedo Jovanovic, and we end up with a circle of these replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8803	I couldn't agree more. I'm really not gonna answer that again. When citizens are already urged not to be led astray, then we won't be misleading them just because they can't get a local license or any other license. A huge number of construction firms, given that they cannot engage their own operation, are entering financial problems that are an unmistakable creditor of bankruptcy. Since I am dealing with this matter, I also know how well this very reason has affected the opening of bankruptcy proceedings lately. However, it is interesting that no one has pointed to another problem of the Law on Planning and Construction, which is currently attached to a member to whom counterpart Milicevic submitted the amendment. It's about conversion. These same tycoons, which did not create the SPS, I don't know who created them, who allowed them to be tycoons, someone else who brought some other positive regulations on which they created their wealth, multiplied etc. Obviously, it stands and cannot be doubted in any case that these same tycoons could have been under Article 70. The law on planning and building to get that building land as a land for regular use of the facility. No one paid attention to that, not even those who criticized it. Why did the minister here point out that the law must change? Because the law is definitely not well done and not applicable. That is why I urge it to be shorter than six months, that the Planning Act be fully innovated, that is to say, a new law on planning and construction, which will be exactly what the ruling structure wants to be, as it wants to be in this country, a regulated legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8804	Thank you. Replica, MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8805	I want to remind my colleague Jovanovic that Miroslav Miskovic was not the vice-president of the government in which the DS had the majority. He was Deputy Prime Minister at a time when the government was run by the SPS. Beko was not a minister in our government, he was a minister in your government. So that's when they got rich and they got richer. If you stop the conversion, they'll still get rich
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-21-0.u8806	Thank you. No more debates have been reported Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Monday, December 24, 2012, starting at 10.00 a.m. as the Day of Voting on the Points of the Ninth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. We're done working today. Thank you very much.
