ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3476	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the explanation for which the amendment we submitted to my distinguished colleague Miroslav Petkovic and I was truly amazing. I'm sorry there isn't a minister or one of the government's representatives here to explain it to us. It is said – the amendment was rejected because it is not based on valid arguments. You know what, if you offer one amendment and give an explanation, surely the refusal of that amendment deserves much more sentences than whether any amendment is based on valid arguments or not. In addition, it is claimed that the submission of the amendment would have negative consequences for the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. Once again here, let us clarify the positions that our parliamentary group has in relation to what the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister said. In principle, we have made it very clear that it is necessary for all abuses that took place in Agrobanks to be investigated, to determine the responsibility of the special representatives of the state authorities, who had the obligation to oversee the work of Agrobanka and NBS representatives, in the Ministry of Finance, but also those who represented the state in Agrobanka. Also, we think it is important that the state find ways to protect the interests of citizens when all these abuses and these problems have already occurred. Where we differ from the Government and the Government's proposal is that we do not consider that because of one such case, an entire legal system relating to financial operations and the banking sector should be suspended because of a single case. Our proposal was to, and we understand that it had to be done to resolve the consequences and protection of citizens, to pass a special law that would refer to "Agrobank", and then, after that, to all those cases that have already been shown as potential, "Development Bank" and all others, to enter the normal legal track and apply the applicable laws. We can't accept that because of one individual case a law is passed where the entire legal system is effectively suspended. You know what, you can create a dangerous precedent in some other areas, when it's seen that this is a way of solving problems, because there have been abuses, because there have been problems, some other ministers come here and suggest, and tomorrow someone can say because of some school, where the principals, the school boards have been misusing, we'll pass the law that we'll suspend the entire system, so the directors, rectors and all the other institutions will put the government. We can create a very serious danger and problems for the functioning of the legal system. That's what we're up against. We think there's a way to solve this problem. Anyway, this problem isn't since yesterday. As Minister Dinkic said, he was already introduced to the former finance minister at the beginning of this problem, and I think he should have already entered the process envisioned by the Banks Act. To say once again in the end, we feel that a completely different act should have been done, to pass a special law. I don't think anyone in the National Assembly would mind. We all understand that the state needs to protect the interests of citizens, and then move on to the process of solving all those troubled banks with state capital. Of course, I'd like to say one more thing, that's what the minister mentioned, but somehow it missed, it's very interesting, since Agrobank was not a state bank, 20% of the state capital was in that bank, as 80% of the capital is possible. The representatives of other shareholders didn't know what was going on? It is very important to examine whether false information has been supplied to them in the congregations, the Management Board where representatives of the Executive Board used to sit, or how did they know what was going on when they were placed? In addition, state representatives had an obligation to report to the government. There are representatives of the parties that were in the previous government, and above all the question – is it possible that none of the government's sessions discussed this? We can't imagine it being kept quiet. Turns out state representatives on the board of directors didn't report to the finance ministry. The finance minister kept quiet and no one knew anything. I am convinced that it was known, but that because of the relationship in the then government, it was silenced, and now this affair has opened up. So, once again to conclude, this refusal and explanation that we have received is unacceptable. Under such legal standards, a valid document cannot be rejected, one amendment which is essential because it opposes the suspension of the entire legal system in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3477	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3478	Let me just say that after the debate on the principle of this law, we have announced that we will submit an initiative to the Assembly Committee on Finance to propose some amendments today. The Assembly Committee on Finance has submitted several amendments to our proposal. One of them is to limit the duration of this law to two years, as I said at the end of the day when we discussed that there would be no doubt that this law would permanently affect the acceleration of this procedure and the derogation of the law in a regular procedure so that we could save bank deposits with control and other state participation. We limited the period of application of the law to 31 December 2014 by the amendment of the Assembly Committee, which was adopted on the initiative of the Ministry of Finance and Industry. Also, in order to avoid the dilemma that all these banks refer to, we narrowed down the definition in Article 1, so that this law applies only to those banks where RS and AP Vojvodina have control participation, where they have majority participation. It can't be applied, for example. to banks where the Republic has half a percent of the capital, but only where it has a control republic or a province. There are several such banks, and we wanted to give this law the possibility that in case of a problem we could react as well as in the case of "New Agrobank" by transferring property deposits to the recipient bank. Just as much as an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3479	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3480	Article 3 of this Act, which has been proposed to delete the amendment, reads: "to be taken over and in accordance with this Act, the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency, the Deposit Insurance Act, the Law on Bank bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies with those numbers of the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia shall not apply, where those laws have been published and thus entered into force. "The argument why such a member of the law should be indisputable to the National Assembly because by voting for such a member, the National Assembly gives its authority to the Government to decide which laws will be in force, which will not be in force and in individual cases. I understand the idea of the promoter being disturbed by the laws in force, and then it is the procedure to seek amendments and additions to the laws that bother the legislator to do in the financial sector what he has to plan. Obviously, writing such a member is enough to suspect that there is no majority in this assembly to amend and supplement these laws. Unfortunately, there will seem to be a majority to vote on non-application of laws that otherwise remain in force. The problem with, I won't say legal violence, but legal indiscriminateness in such a bill is that once such a thing is done by the Assembly, what will be the argument for the next time someone thinks that the job he has imagined can be done without supervision and control by some members of the law, that is, by deciding not to apply some laws. I don't want to get into the constitutionality of these provisions. This will, of course, be decided by the Constitutional Court after an initiative has been submitted to assess the constitutionality of the decision of the National Assembly to decide by one law on non-application of other laws, especially if there is no need, since the Government of RSI is also the National Assembly responsible for the law concerning resolving the problem of a bank that can be proposed to all of us within a short period of time and that we decide not to put any other laws at risk. It is clear from the debate in principle, and also from the debate in detail that it was not intended to be done because this law was meant to serve as a metaphor for what the people say "a daughter is ugly, and they are angry" and the amendment that we heard was proposed on the Finance Committee is talking about. Therefore, it is not a focus on solving the issue of Agrobanke, which is undeniable, but is focused on trying to resolve the subsequent settlement after failed agreements on the resolution of the second bank of Vojvodina Development Bank. When a legislator proposes to us members of the law, we read very carefully all the members of these laws by carefully looking at how each member will produce consequences on natural persons, on legal persons, on legal societies, on the legal view of what is happening in the legislative system of the RS and this was the reason why I submit amendments that are otherwise not common, which do not otherwise tend to, but extreme proposals require extreme means for the member of the amendment to be deleted because I do not see how else to correct the will of the legislator to put out of force and out of application of the laws which otherwise remain in force and which apply to the area of which it is concerned. The argument of time, whether or not it can be reached, the argument that this individual law that I would read very carefully that it was brought into the Assembly here and that it would refer to solving the issue of Agrobanka and New Agrobanka as a unique case would be no reason if it was carefully written to welcome the amendments or without them very positively. So the argument that it was no longer done because there was no time obviously does not stand. It has not been done because no agreement has been reached to do so with at least one more bank, so it is trying to prescribe this law as if it were a will arising out of the Parliament's will. Why am I saying that the argument of time doesn't stand? Because it's such a law, that it's proposed to put off the power, the law I quoted, very easy to verify, that there's time, with a law that only applies to the case of Agrobank, the New Agrobank. The Assembly shall remain in its constitutional powers and any means of control and supervision shall remain in the hands of the MPs. Another kind of argument that was also incorrect, if someone is in the mood, I would like it to be a little bit better explained in numbers, is that these are banks that occupy a very small number in the financial market. A few percent, 1.23, 0.5, 0.72 followed by a sentence that with such low participation in the financial market, credit default, at any rate, rises to 20% at the same time. It is possible for such perverse sentences to pass with people who do not listen carefully, and with us who listen carefully to such a dissuasive sentence points to whether or not the National Assembly is deliberately deceived by such a claim. A very low percentage of participation in the financial market, and high default produces a huge effect on all other banks that occupy the rest of the financial market. So either you don't want to talk about facts or, which is a much bigger problem, the facts don't know. I stand firm in the position that by voting for him in such a text, by voting for him, we send a message that we do not give a damn which of the laws that are in force in the Republic of Serbia, by the decision of this assembly, whoever sits here, whoever is the ruling majority, the opposition, will be respected and who will not. This cannot be a good message for any law, for any government, for any ruling majority or opposition. I used the time of the parliamentary group, after two minutes I have for the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3481	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives will hold a session today, October 26, 2012, at 11.00 p.m. in the House of the National Assembly. National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Chizik together submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 3a. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3482	Thank you. We made a proposal to add Article 3a to the reasons we wanted to define precisely and clearly who could be the transmission bank. It is clearly defined in the Banks Act that it can be a bank which, according to that formulation, is significantly subcapitalised or critically subcapitalised bank. I think that's how this law is clearly formulated, in which case this law can be applied. If this is not defined in a precise way, I fear that this could be the subject of solutions for bank takeover that may not be in the situation, but may be the product of arbitrary decision-making. Those who make such a proposal in the nearer or further future, although we now hear that the law will be passed by 2014. Our amendment was to define clearly the criteria when something like this can be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3483	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3484	Article 4 of the basic text of the law reads: "Download is carried out by means of a contract to take over all or part of the assets and liabilities, in the following text – the takeover contract concluded between the transferor bank and the bank that assumes the entire assets or part of the assets and liabilities, in the following text – the bank acquirer. "Article 4's second position. — the acquisition of all or part of the assets of the bank for special purposes and of the banks under administrative management shall be subject to the takeover contract concluded between the Agency, as transferor, and the takeover bank. My suggestion is to delete that member. Here's an argument why. Article 3 argues that the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency is not applicable. Article 4 shall be ordered by the Deposit Insurance Agency under this law, without amending the law which otherwise regulates the work of the Deposit Insurance Agency. He can't do both. You have to decide who will interpret, what will be the criteria for this Agency to commit itself to acting, if you tell the previous member that this law does not apply the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. That's the first thing. The second thing we have just heard is that the amendment, the Committee's will, has been submitted, and on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance amending Article 1 and is added that the banks in which the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the AP Vojvodina, have direct or indirect control participation, including banks for special purposes. You didn't intervene with the amendment here in attitude two. Only banks are left for special purposes. So it can be debated if you change the first term that you define who it refers to. Are you constantly doing this through all the members where the bank to which this law applies or not is mentioned? Article 4 of the Amendment to the Financial Committee amends points 1 and 2 but not in the section I am talking about. For the application of Article 4 is also a contract to take over all or part of the assets and liabilities. As with other members where the treatment is mentioned, most of the members of this law are essentially not defined as a member of the law. It's much more like a rulebook on what the finance ministry is going to do, with the rules having the criteria for doing what anybody does and in what way you don't have here. But you have in those members who have conflicting laws that don't apply, and then I demand that someone act as defined by that law. That's why my proposal to delete article 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3485	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3486	Thank you. I think it is important to understand, with congratulatory fellow Komic on creativity which she herself called extreme in the formulation of amendments, because after criticism in the principle where the bill is criticised now each member is individually proposed for erasing what is original and effective. Arguing from a formal-legal point of view, it seems to me to be the essence of this debate, putting a little bit of a shadow of what is actually a central topic, and that is the financial and economic character of the problem we are talking about. If we assume that this law does not exist, and therefore the member in question we are talking about, we are talking about the concept – let only run what the state recognized as a difficult, serious problem in the financial sector that threatens to destabilise the entire economic system. And let it just flow, I guess that should mean – let those who trusted the state banks themselves bear the risk of their irresponsible trust in the state. It would seem extremely unserious as a message from the government to the public. So I think this is exactly the moment of taking responsibility for the state in front of the weakest depositors, which are natural persons, local self-government, small and medium-sized enterprises that have 250,000. In the case of Agrobank, the number of people affected by this problem is much greater. Remember that in the case where companies depositors are a problem for all employees in these companies, as well as for local self-government depositors, it is a problem that cannot affect all citizens of these local self-governments. It seems that this perfectionism of a jurist nature, I agree, is a justified topic for parliamentary and political creativity, but in this case, as in other amendments of character, it is deleted, it is clouded by what is the government's real determination and what deserves the support of the general public, including the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that in one specific case which is socially pathologically halting the destabilising trend and protection they are weaker than the corrupt interest of the large which is actually harmful and done.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3487	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Comic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3488	I look forward to it every time there are arguments that challenge the arguments that I'm defending the idea of a member erasing. At the end of the exposure we had the opportunity to hear is said to be clouding the true character of the government. You know, the job of the opposition is to reveal the true character of the government. As far as I'm concerned, it's a job and a ruling majority, and so far I've done so often to the great dissatisfaction of those I've supported, but that's my nature. So, to challenge that the request for the rule of law and the application of laws in force in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia is clouding the government's true intentions, shows either lack of arguments or will – the check to tell her something, seems to be very right, so to dispute her a little. That's what I'm really looking forward to. The financial and economic character of any law can't be an excuse to damage it, make a legally reckless violation of the system of laws that are in force. In addition, in an argument that tries to challenge my argument to delete Article 4, it is said – to let things go their own way. By no means, laws that regulate what happens in the financial market of banking, or in Serbia's legal system, "Agrobank" are in place and are very clear. They repeat that here with special interest would be the welcome law relating to Agrobank, that one law for which the Assembly gives its consent, but that didn't happen. So, we reveal the government's rightful intention to work without control and control of the Assembly and to carry out fully arbitraryly everything that it considers to be good in the financial market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3489	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3490	Right now, I am the proposal for a law on the takeover of property and obligations of certain banks in order to preserve the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of Article 1. The bill doesn't apply to one case. Whether it's a will to refer to one or two cases, that's another question. But what it says now is in Article 1. The bill doesn't talk about one case. Here I am talking to Mr Milenic, who, pleading on the amendment to Article 4, mentioned what this law applies to. I am happy that those who followed my discussion, when I answered for a word during the debate in principle, noticed that Article 1 did not mention control participation, but only direct or indirect participation by the state of Serbia, or the AP. It is a good thing that, on this background, the Finance Committee has in some way implemented a correction, or proposed a correction to the Bill of Law. Mr. Milenic, if this is adopted and becomes an integral part of the text proposal, an integral part of the bill, then we can talk about one or two cases. At this moment, still, until the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law or until a possible statement by the Prime Minister himself on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, or if such a statement has arrived, this is not yet an integral part of the bill's proposal. In that sense, I believe that the discussion of each of us and anyone who has made an effort to propose a certain amendment in order to improve the text of the law is an effort to try in a certain way to contribute to a better text of the law. In particular, I am going back to your discussion whether it relates to one, two or more cases, you have seen that, in the proposal for an amendment of the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly, as regards amendments under the regular number of VI to Article 17, it is explained that the application of the bill applies only to a limited number of transmission banks which may be only banks in which the Republic of Serbia has a control stake, if the amendment of the Committee to Article 1 is adopted or if it becomes an integral part. In that sense, we have one proposal at the moment, and what we will have in five or six minutes when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives gives an opinion and if it becomes an integral part, then we will talk about the second or somewhat corrected text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3491	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milenić, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3492	There's no doubt that it's already a provision that's so-called. State banks are constrained by the scope of this law, which part of the country's banking system. According to the basic logical principle, any addition of the content of new provisions, as you now commend the amendment of the Finance Committee, by increasing the description of the subject matter to which the law will apply, narrows its scope, i.e. The number of banks to which the law can be applied is reduced. It's perfectly undeniable, as it seems, that key does not make the argument that the law is not in line with the legal order of the country in which this matter is regulated. No, he only specificises one area and one specific situation in which he has to apply, not endangering the general order over the topic of the banking sector and financial business in Serbia. It's very important to understand. However, I say again, it seems that these jurist logical perfections are indeed in the function of clouding the political-economic and financial essences of motives and the reasons for adopting such a law, because this kind of policy, which does not wish to demonstrate the country's determined responsibility for the state's situation in this case of public finances or the moods of citizens according to what public affairs are, indeed at one point resulted in a policy that seemed to have been written in the sky above Serbia – on sale and that all were called on to rob the most personal egotisms of what it has to grab, and then I guess we go where whoever gets it, where some would probably be able to go, but the general public has no motive to leave the country and to grab and rob and rob their country for the reason for their politics. (Chairman: Please, you're out of time.) This is a legal proposal to put an end to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3493	The word is from the MP Srdjan Mikovic, by the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3494	You see, in one part, I might agree, but in the other part, you're wrong. Where are you wrong? The proposed amendments to the Financial Committee, in one part, are narrowed down, and in the other part a certain competence is extended. In fact, exactly what we discussed, whether it applies only to banks where the state has a control stake and it's working, it's narrowed down. But if the amendment of the Committee is accepted, it is unlike the basic text, which says that the Republic of Serbia has direct or indirect participation, it is added -- "that is, the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina". So we're precise on another of our two autonomous provinces. I am not sure that in the very text of the law we can make if we have two autonomous provinces in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to introduce something as an autonomous province. We could possibly be an autonomous province, but not an AP Vojvodina. We're not giving up our southern province, are we? So now I'm going to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, which starts at 11.00 a.m. to state my position, that we can't single out one autonomous province without the other autonomous provinces. Or maybe something new has happened in the past, so there's some reason why the National Assembly doesn't know that it only stands for the AP Vojvodina without another province. I'm sorry, but I think I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3495	The word is Mr. Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3496	In order to be clear enough, I must say, is there any bank in Serbia whose founder is not only the Republic of Serbia and possibly the AP Vojvodina? It doesn't exist. She's not in the legal system, not a single one. All banks operating today in Serbia are founders of either private persons, foreign institutions or the Republic of Serbia or AP Vojvodina. So there's no dilemma, I'll do it again. This law concerns not only the case of the New Agrobank, it refers to the case of all banks where the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the AP Vojvodina, have a controlled direct or indirect participation. There aren't many such banks, but two banks with problems, with negative capital, with a negative assessment of NBS where intervention should be possible if necessary. At the "New Agrobank" we have already concluded once, that the Assembly will hopefully, after today, take the appropriate decision and contracts to fully transfer the deposits of "New Agrobank" to the Postage Savings Bank tomorrow. Of course, covered by the corresponding amount of liquidity to be fully secured, but this law can be implemented in a period of time when it is in force, and this applies to other banks by the end of 2014. It can also refer to the "Vojvodine Development Bank" and therefore stands explicitly the AP Vojvodina, which owns almost 80% of the "Vojvodine Development Bank" while the Republic of Serbia owns about twenty percent of the institution. There are no other banks, there are no banks in Serbia that owns AP Kosovo and Metohija. So, the reason for the law is exclusively that nature that I was talking about, not some others. So there's no need to discuss much, at least in my opinion on this on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because this is only about the banks that exist. Since the law has been laid down for two years, and I do not believe it will be created in the meantime by some new banks whose founder will be AP Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3497	Here you go, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3498	I can't agree that if we're making the law, that the law doesn't work on everyone and that the erga omnes doesn't work, then it's an individual decision, let's baptize it differently than the law. If we pass a law, no matter what my colleagues object to, I believe that any act that comes out of this high house should be legally perfect, especially in accordance with the Constitution. So in that sense I can understand the integrity of a particular proposal, of good intentions and everything else, but let's respect the Constitution, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3499	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3500	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time because I think we need to be clear about the ones we're sitting around doing, some argument that was heard here. The amendment, which added that the participation of the Republic of Serbia was directly or indirectly controlled and that it was excellent that the Finance Committee had submitted the amendment, since it narrowed down the scope of which it was said that in the basic text, there were no problems and that there were no threats to the conduct of this law, regardless of whether the Republic of Serbia had direct or indirect participation in banks as it stood, is now not yet being threatened even more. You know, when you have a thin story in front of you, then there's one grateful process in the debate. All those who wish to support the arguments work exclusively in favour of those who are against the thin story that this law tries to present as a determination to introduce order. The provision to ignore the political - economic - financial essence, I see only as an attitude that, if repeated enough times, may be liked by someone. However, in the clash with the legal system that exists in Serbia will fall apart as all the laws governing the business of a bank that is directly or indirectly involved in control or not already exist. I will also repeat once again that there was a clean situation that the National Assembly decided on the case of Agrobank and New Agrobank, in line with the legal system, with confidence that the problem would be solved precisely because of the argument it is trying to plant here. All in all, the argument I hear, which tries to challenge our clear position, that such members should be deleted, stands within the ethics of intent. We're, like, very socially prone to ethics of intent, you know, I have good intentions. And if I have good intentions, then it will happen in itself. When you have a conversation across the street that says I respect your good intentions, but that's not enough, I want us to figure out together what of your good intentions are based on our country's legal system, what is possible and with what probability. So is the amendment mentioned, and also refers to the amendment of the Finance Committee, which adds to the first article that – the Republic of Serbia has direct and indirect participation, i.e. the AP Vojvodina. What does that amendment mean? You gave the Duke the right he has. Therefore, interpreting this amendment as sufficient for the Republic of Serbia to act without the consent of the government of Vojvodina is either the ethics of intent or the ignorance of those who have considered this amendment at the committee's session. So, if this law passes and sets aside other laws, the National Assembly gives the Republic of Serbia the right to do what I call more rules than laws, whatever or whatever banks in which the Republic of Serbia directly or indirectly control participation, then you gave this law the same right to the AP Vojvodina. You did not take the right to do so with this law without the A.P.V., which, as the minister says, has property in the Development Bank. So, you have to decide what you want, you can't both, you can't have this bill announced, only one bank is covered, and in fact we want to include two, you can't have this law to hold a debate about it with the government of Vojvodina, the "Vojvodine Development Bank", which I don't question at all, we're a state of charge and no charge in "Agrobanks" and "New Agobans" or "Vojvodina Development Bank", we're questioning. The Minister of Finance's position that he can account for whenever he wants the data on the depositors, the amounts that the depositors have, the data that does not exist on the NBS site, but he owns them and remains questionable whether he can or can't. After what I've had so far, it doesn't seem to be possible, but it seems to have already happened. So, if we want to talk about ethics of intent, nobody here doubts that we all have good intentions, when it comes to improving banking business, easier environment, economic and financial, it was owned by the Republic of Serbia, indirect, direct, AP Vojvodina, mixed, any economic society. So no one suspects the ethics of intent, but that's not enough, not in any assembly, not in any parliament, not in this House either. In order for what is argued by the ethics of good intentions to be accepted and not challenged, data that are verifiable must be provided, an argument must be given that has been repeated, leaving beyond any doubt what is going to happen. Now, we have an argument that the law in the basic text didn't endanger anyone, but now we've taken amendments that are even better at jeopardizing no one, that the law will not endanger other banks, as we have an argument that it will only apply to two banks. I remind you that there are at least three more banks in the territory of Serbia with state participation, direct and indirect and that, since the finance minister has said here, or I have introduced into this argument about banks in KIM, I would ask him that if he remains in the manner, that the data, whether it exists or not, on the NBS site, as available data, is allowed for public debate, to share with us information about the JU Bank on the territory of KIM, about the "Prival Bank of Belgrade", about the "Serbian Bank", because then we might better explain what is in our argument to those who support these proposals and when they have amendments and when they do not have them, what are facts, and what they just mean. Our proposal to delete Article 4 is very clear and easy to explain, and that is an illustration of the situation when I say that extreme cases require extreme measures, and he as his own reward carries the ease of reasoning, because I can only state the reasons that unfortunately are enough, where the application of such members would result in adverse consequences. Without the intention of interpreting, the moment you pass into the Assembly a law relating to Agrobank and to New Agrobank, you will have a completely different position without challenge, because it is within the framework of what the laws are and within what the Assembly is allowed and should do.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3501	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3502	I'm not going to answer much today, because everything I had in the debate in principle two days ago, but since you said three times one false thing, I have to say for the public, this law in the title itself contains the fact that it applies to multiple banks, because it's about plural, it's not about one bank. This isn't the law of the New Agrobank. If it was the law on "New Agrobank," that's what you'd call it. This law covers all current problematic state banks cases where non-compliance under this law can jeopardise the stability of the financial system, i.e. lead to moral gambling in the banking system, as well as any future cases, if they happen within a period of two years, given that we have limited the fact. The Serbian Finance Ministry cannot know which bank is in trouble and which is not, only the NBS knows, because under the Constitution and the laws, only the Central Bank has the right to exercise control. However, the finance ministry according to the Constitution and the laws is responsible for those banks where the state has a control stake, and also for those banks where there is a minority, and even more so for those where it has control, because there is complete responsibility in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all for the Ministry of Finance. In that sense, given the fact that the Central Bank, the NBS, after the controls carried out, in both these institutions and the Vojvodina Development Bank and the New Agrobank, found that no other bank can survive on the market, because several indicators under the Banks Act do not meet, and above all they have no capital, no liquidity, no insolvency or liquid, then the government passed a bill that could cover more banks so that we would not have a law for one bank, and then we come back to the Assembly to make a law for another bank. I'm saying this because the cases of "New Agrobank" and "Vojvodine Development Bank" are identical, they just differ in size of the problem. The problem in "New Agrobank" is 410m euros, given that so many are now deposits, secured and unsecured. 250 million secured and the rest unsecured deposits. What are the secured deposits? All those up to 50,000 euros guaranteed by the state. What's different about Vojvodina Development Bank? It's just that the level of the problem is smaller. There is a level of 140m-euro secured deposits, and an unsecured 100m euros, but the Vojvodina Development Bank also lacks 150m euros in additional capital, so that it is even insolvent, and it lacks liquidity, fresh money. The "New Agrobank" currently has accounts below 10m euros, and savings can demand 250m euros. Half of these roles come next week, half of New Agrobank. If this law didn't pass today and the government would react tomorrow by transferring a complete database to the Post Office would have had a situation that as of Tuesday, Wednesday, when the stakes of citizens arrive, people would not be able to raise their money in the New Agrobank. It's a similar situation at Vojvodina Development Bank. It warned the province government that the bank had no liquidity, that it was not insolvent and that if it intervened urgently, the same case would happen. With the desire to help us have the same treatment according to identical two state banks, where in one, the control property has the Republic of Serbia, and in another AP Vojvodina, we have proposed this law, wanting to save for the Republic of Serbia, the room for manoeuvre that if in some future controls and in some state-owned bank with control participation, we can see the problem, that we can intervene in the same way, because in this way we save the deposits of citizens and businesses. So, 250 thousand New Agrobank depositors who have secured deposits and about 70 thousand in Vojvodina Development Bank, of course you keep mentioning that we didn't have a deal with the province government, we talked to them, they made a decision at the Vojvodina Assembly to do the capitalisation of the Vojvodina Development Bank in the amount of 150m euros, that's a legal solution, we gave them legal consent under the Public Debt Act that they could do so, if they thought it was good, but we said it was uninvolved. The National Bank of Serbia is now on the move to allow or not allow such a show, and we will not interfere with that decision by any means. But what's the case, in case in the next period, you asked me here in the Assembly to limit this law to two years, that's what I did, if I wanted to limit myself, we thought it would be limited to two years, you didn't specifically suggest which period, to be precise. So, he asked for the DSS Parliament Club and you mentioned in your speech the need to limit this law and we accepted it, proposed to the Finance Committee. In the case of "New Agrobank", we are permanently solving this problem, because as of Monday, all the depositors will be moved to the Post Office and they will be able to freely play their part. Why? Because together with deposit transfers and 250m euros of cash from the Deposit Insurance Agency, to fully cover those deposits, plus records of values that were previously issued and some other collectable claims, so that we are actively covering all 410m euros with collateral that is chargeable, i.e. with cash. As for Vojvodina Development Bank, if the recapitalisation is carried out, of course the level of the bank's capital will come to the level Serbia considers justified. After that, it is likely that the Vojvodine Development Bank will ask the Central Bank to receive a liquidity loan, since they have no liquid assets. I suppose in the situation of demand for such a kind of help, that the Central Bank of Serbia will meet "Vojvodine Development Bank". However, if, in the coming period, bad governance brought up by Vojvodina Development Bank in such a position as it is now in place, because 75% of all credits are non-refundable, then this law gives both the possibility to the province government and the Republic to intervene in some future period, where, in view of this, I have spoken publicly about this, that we have proposed that the agony of the "Development Banks of Vojvodina", as well as the "New Agrobanks" be stopped immediately and prevented further accumulation of costs. In that case, we would not agree to intervene with any obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards unsecured deposits, as we must and guarantee secured deposits in all banks in Serbia, because we do not want all Serbian citizens to pay for the political placement experiment. In that case, I would benefit from this law only for the transfer of secured deposits. So, those who have stakes of up to 50,000 euros in all banks in Serbia must and can feel safe, because we guarantee as a state that in the case of a problem, in any bank in Serbia, whether it is a state, private, foreign or domestic, the Republic of Serbia has enough and instruments and resources to intervene and compensate for each dinar of those 50,000 euros in individual deposits. The Republic of Serbia has no obligation, and I warn both citizens and businessmen to cover unsecured deposits, i.e. deposits above 50,000 euros. In this case, it is very important for the province to make the right decision, because unless it takes full responsibility for the unsecured deposits in Vojvodina Development Bank. There are among other things the deposits of Belgrade City and the deposits of the province of Vojvodina and the deposits of several local self-governments from the territory of Vojvodina, deposits of some prominent enterprises such as "Nectar". There are indeed a lot of these deposits, which in the case of poor governance will not be saved by the Republic government, because we have also been in this assembly, as well as in official letters, warned the province government that this is not about politics, but about economics and suggested that given that the degree of non-payment of the claim is even 75%, which is only slightly less bad than in the New Agrobank, where the degree of non-payment is 80%, that all deposits are simply saved now, to allow the province to freely dispose of more than two billion dinars of now captured money in the Vojvodine Development Bank, that local self-government also releases that money from businesses free of charge, so that they can dispose of it, well, finally, the City of Belgrade. The Belgrade citizens have, indirectly, over the city administration 600 million dinars in the Vojvodina Development Bank that they can't afford, and then, I don't know, prices are rising in urban transport because the city doesn't have enough, apparently money. And here, 600 million dinars stands, among other things, in the National Bank of Vojvodina. The city of Belgrade will be freed from New Agrobank. So it's really an effect. Belgrade has 300m dinars in Nova Agrobanka and 600m dinars, twice as much in Vojvodina Development Bank. The moment we transfer to Postage Savings and secured and unsecured deposits, Belgrade City, for example, will be able to freely dispose of those 300 million from the Post Office, which will not be the case at Vojvodina Development Bank. One more thing you said, and I didn't want to react right away, and since you keep saying it, I want it now. The false fact is that these banks are systemically important, that is, the fact that I have stated that the participation of these banks in the market is negligible, and that is happiness in all these circumstances, so citizens can be calm. However, given that the degree of non-refundable claims far exceeds the average in other banks, it does not exceed a little, but drastically. The difference between 80%, as far as the non-refundable claims in Vojvodina Development Bank are concerned, I apologize, 75% in Vojvodina Development Bank, 80% in Nova Agrobanka, is a drastic difference compared to about 20 percent in other banks. Therefore, even given the fact that the total market participation of this bank does not have significant participation, this drastic difference in poor placements increases the overall average for the Republic of Serbia, it is a very simple mathematical explanation for you. To conclude, this law is passed with the desire to be applied as little as possible, or as few candidates as possible for its application. It depends on how many cases this law will be applied, except how it is managed in state banks. What happened in the past, we can't go back. Bad governance at Agrobank, while it was a private obvious experiment with the creation of this "New Agrobank" that was completely wrong, lost 100m euros completely unnecessaryly by issuing these papers, could have been dealt with just like this. We can't return it, but the aim of this law is to act urgently now, determined to save our deposits and thus keep our trust in the system. Why am I saying these banks aren't systemically? Although large figures act that the savings in Nova Agrobanka amount to 250m euros, or at Vojvodina Development Bank, that 140m deposits are secured, it is still negligible compared to over eight billion euros, as Serbia's citizens hold in our banks. That's why it's good that it's two isolated, small cases, but no matter how small, and 140m euros if someone loses, or 250m euros in this other bank case, it's huge resources and we don't want anyone to be in danger. Why are we still passing this law? Because we're also saving money from the budget, or the Deposit Insurance Agency, which would pay cash in case of a problem, because instead of, I'm going to be completely concrete, instead of, for example, paying for these 140m euros in deposits in the Vojvodina Development Bank, which were secured, if it went bankrupt, the province would not, but the Republic would have to pay the depositors. In the case of this law, we even in the event that the province is now recapitalising the bank, and the bank is still in trouble, which has already proved that three recapitalisations were not enough, so I doubt the fourth would be enough, however much it is. We have the possibility that in the event of the collapse of Vojvodina Development Bank, which may be a problem for these secured deposits, we can transfer, under this law, only secured deposits in this case to one of the recipient banks and thus avoid the Republic of Serbia intervening with funds from the budget or giving them securities of value. In that case, which I don't want to happen, of course, would be a shame not to cover unsecured deposits, which in that case would be in bankruptcy. That's why it was my economic warning and a proposal to the province government not to save something that was difficult to save, because it's not about 25 or 30% of the uncharging loans, it's about 75%. Three-quarters portfolio is "breach," as the people would say, it's uncharging. Who knows if it's true and it's true, because when the first estimate was for, you know, Agrobank itself, it was thought I didn't know how much, that there were much less uncharging loans. As it got deeper into the analysis, security was seen. He who simply thinks that banking can be used for political purposes is really not responsible for his people or his country.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3503	I ask MP Mirko Chiquiriz to declare whether he is reporting for a replica or reporting for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3504	I'm reporting for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3505	Please wait, because there's more replicas. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3506	Thank you. I listened very carefully to the explanations and I'll remind you of the metaphor of it - when something is thin, it's thin. You know, if you wanted this law to apply to other banks, then you had to have an amendment to the government to explain the urgency. That other bank won't have "Sun of Savings" in front of it. You can make remarks that it's ignoring the importance and good intentions of such an insignificant institute as the interruption of the session, the emergency procedure and everything else. The rule of law implies that we all respect equally all the provisions that apply to the subject we are dealing with. This situation cannot be explained by the good intentions of any kind, as it cannot be explained why you share the data with us. The finance minister shares with us data on the deposits of only one bank or two banks, if these are data that should be made available to the public who has deposits in the "Primary Bank of Belgrade", the "JU Bank" in Kosovo and Metohija, "Serbian Bank". If you feel that there is any hope that several times repeated, that you have good intentions, so it will be excellent in "Sun of Savings", and that we have only observations of the legal type, as many times as you offer good intentions, so many times I will offer a right that can be checked and offer to check your good intentions. I would ask you to tell me what the difference is that there is no negligible percentage of the financial market of these two banks compared to the percentage that marks the default of the total system and if there is one? It's also easy to calculate. I like numbers a lot more than letters and sentences and I talk a lot better with numbers. That reminds you that if I tell you that the bill isn't good, then it's because it's been checked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3507	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3508	Just one small note that makes this amendment impossible to accept, since it is a discussion of the amendments. Please, there's no reason to spread the discussion. Let's remind ourselves of everything we said together during the principle debate. Here, the Assembly is neither the lawyer of any bank, nor just a legislator, but as the highest representative of the state, as the highest body, at the same time the owner who was warned by the National Bank that in one case, where he was both the owner and the manager, it was the state. He's not the Minister of State. The only one representing the whole is the President of the Republic or the Assembly, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Had he not respected the laws, had he not acted in accordance with the laws, and had therefore suffered the consequences, the depositors, among other things, of one bank, were there any other way than for the Assembly, which had passed the laws, but whose laws obviously violated or failed to activate enough, to protect only because of the fact that the state was a 100% owner somewhere, the consequences that could concern not only a large number of local self-governments, more than 250,000 citizens? As a result, the person who was authorized to do so again turned to him, whom the congregation had chosen. The government has addressed us both as the owner and as the legislator and says – what do we do now, to save one urgent intervention of this role? The remark was mine, too, since it's extraordinary, it has to be limited to time and it has to be limited to banks, so we don't jeopardize the entire banking system. As these amendments are accepted on the Committee in the meantime, there are no more legal objections as to the underlying problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3509	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Sasa Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3510	I called the office because I have the right to a replica that I've been waiting too long. If you're giving me that right now on the line, I'll shorten the reasoning of the Rules of Procedure's injury. Therefore, Article 104 explicitly notes that the MP whose discussion in the speech of the other MP turns to meaning, has the right to reply. After the discussion, distinguished counterpart Komic, who interpreted my discussion, said many, and my application for the replica was not in order. Can I use it now?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3511	You have the right to a replica. Otherwise, you were in order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3512	Thank you. So, I replicated the esteemed colleague Komic at the observation about thin stories and the thick arguments of the legal order about which thin stories are broken. With that narrative, I fully agree, I'm just saying that the division of the roles in that story is in complete inversion. Noting that it doesn't always have to be disturbing when someone finds themselves in a thin story, this time, believe it or not, exactly Col. Komic has stopped at one such story, because I'm afraid that the millennium's enthusiasm for a thousand-year rule has anaesthetized the sense of responsibility and this particular story is breaking about a state-of-the-art law that this bill is state-of-the-art because it affirms citizens' rights this time in the case of depositors.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3513	Replica, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3514	Thank you. It's going to happen in the future. So when you have nothing in front of you other than a thin story, and this law in its text is, unfortunately, a thin story, and the argument is even thinner, then each against the argument goes in favor of you. This is the inevitable debate and represents one of the special joys of debates. It's always easy to challenge whoever's proposing to you, to check out what he's saying. So, if you look closely at the stenogram of arguments about amendments that I defend or respond to remarks that we exchange as colleagues, you will see that I defend the rule of law and that I am challenged by defending the rule of law by someone having good intentions, which violates the rule of law, but it gives me an honorable word that everything will be okay. This cannot be done in the congregations, but I thank you for the joy of dialogue and debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3515	Thank you. Replica, MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3516	It's not a replica, I'm reporting by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3517	I'm sorry, there's still a replica. I thought you answered the line. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3518	Why am I picking up the line? I'm reporting for a reason because, when I discussed it, I honestly thought that the Finance Committee was alone, and without the government's initiative, I submitted amendments to the bill. Because the government is the initiator of these amendments to the Finance Committee, a team up there. Why? Because, you see, we all have before us a bill where there were no restrictions on the application of the law in time and where Article 1 defines who it refers to. The Finance Committee in a formal sense came up with a proposal for amendments, where I challenged constitutionality and compliance with the legal system of such an amendment here, noting that it was about 11 p.m. when the session of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee began, believe me, I couldn't have been here on the tide and on the board, to point out that we still have two autonomous provinces under the Constitution. The amendment, which has now been approved by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, states the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the AP Vojvodina. If we had a little time, if someone had consulted us, if these amendments to the Finance Committee hadn't come at 9.55 a.m. at the office, we could have indicated that, in accordance with the Unique Methodological Rules on Regulation Making, only by applying Article 42. Unique methodological rules to use the term. The terms used in the regulation are unique unless nature requires otherwise. It could have, I'm talking about the Constitution, that it stands for the Republic of Serbia or an autonomous province, but if the AP Vojvodina stands out, in that part it's absolutely against the constitution, because we're forgetting one province.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3519	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3520	So it's really hard to figure out what replicas are now, and what the discussions on the amendment are for the basic reason that, according to the basic amendment now being discussed, an extended topic on the amendment to the new amendment of the Finance Committee. In this part of the debate is on a broader subject, I have nothing against it and I don't mind, but I want to get involved in the debate on this amendment and on the second amendment submitted by the Finance Committee. To respond, that is, to ask an authorised promoter, or finance minister, a few things. First, he listed on several occasions the names of depositors of certain banks. I think it's legally inadmissible, but I leave it to those mentioned to see what they'll do with that question. In fact, once upon a time, I heard you mention Nectar company that it's a component of Vojvodina Development Bank. You also mentioned other institutions that are the "Vojvodine Development Bank" deficit. You said about the Vojvodine Development Bank, I quote - that it is in collapse, that it is in front of bankruptcy, that its deposits are junk and that it cannot survive on the market. I ask the MPs, I ask you and the professional public, did you in this way endanger the business of the Vojvodine Development Bank, regardless of your analysis that you have and you can have about its state of the market? But maybe it's secondary in this case. It is appropriate that you are not only jeopardizing the country's legal system with the fact that you have broken the legal system by one law, because instead of amending and supplementing the Banks Act, one law that does not have the name of that basic law, you essentially changed that law itself. Not just him, but more laws. On the other hand, when it comes to this amendment in which the AP Vojvodina is mentioned next to the Republic of Serbia, it is undoubtedly alluded to the "Vojvodina Development Bank", you have violated another law concerning the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina and the possibility of it setting up a development bank. So it's not exactly the same situation, Mr. Minister, with Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank. First, 80% of the founding rights in Vojvodina Development Bank have the AP Vojvodina. With Agrobank, it's a different situation. On the other hand, in economic terms, 250m euros will in some way be invested or engaged in the resolution of Agrobanka, which is indeed legitimate and I have no problem with other than these legal concerns. In a certain sense, you are contesting the law of the AP Vojvodina, which is the founder of Vojvodina Development Bank, to decide whether to invest 150m euros in the resolution of Vojvodina Development Bank. You say you won't argue, but it's on the NBS move. You have nevertheless prejudged the decision in some way with your disqualifications of colleagues Mojovic, the bank, its credibility and its roles in the market. On the other hand, as the National Bank was set up, according to also one very controversial law which the EU has already disputed in some way and asked you as a question, and the IMF, which you say, has nevertheless agreed to come, has raised this as one of the serious issues of NBS politicisation and now this political law and this political personalisation of NBS leadership is being expressed. Absolutely to expression. The National Bank of Serbia will make a decision as you and Mrs Tabakovic agree. No council from the governor, no independent bodies will decide. That will be decided and will depend on your goodwill on whether the Vojvodina Development Bank will survive. Will there be one of the powers that the AP Vojvodina received and which is not challenged before the Constitutional Court? So it's not just a question. It's a political question. Of course, the economic issue is crucial and of course that the deposits of citizens, legal entities must be sure and that the bank's business must be positive and in accordance with the NBS regulations. I couldn't agree more with you. However, this issue is more complex. You cannot apply analogy, and in the last two days you have evolved your thinking in that sense, not to try to somehow find a solution to the "Vojvodina Development Bank", but you explicitly through the mention of the AP Vojvodina, put it as an object of this law and thus take a stick to discipline a lower level of power that is not your will. Allow it to a lower level of government, which is not a local self-government, which is an AP Vojvodina, to allow that lower level of government to decide on its own what to do with Vojvodina Development Bank. You take measures concerning responsibility and the management of the bank and other activities. Do not enter into a decision on behalf of the AP Vojvodina, nor sex with Bojan Pajtic, nor anyone who represents this AP Vojvodina what is better for them. I guess that's what they know best, and I guess that's why people chose them. Be careful. I really do ask you most well-intentionedly that when it comes to the "Vojvodine Development Bank" and the light estimates you make these days, they are very dangerous, they are very incompatible with the role of the finance minister, they are very incompatible with the role of NBS. You entered one, you might say, anti-European, and I'd say, against the good rules of the norms not to be touched, not to be named, not to identify the depositors, their assets. You've discovered identities here, and in some ways you've compromised the independence of the banking system. Maybe it's in good faith, maybe in the heat of a discussion that you shouldn't succumb to, you've done a lot of things that aren't useful and that I agree, to a good extent, to disrupt and thus disrupt the economic position of these banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3521	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3522	Thank you for this discussion, because you gave me a chance to explain why you were wrong. I don't think you have any bad intentions, maybe you just don't have some information. Three important reasons why the AP Vojvodina cannot in this case fully decide on the Vojvodina Development Bank on its own. The first is because already now the Republic of Serbia, whose minister of finance, has invested 50m euros in Vojvodina Development Bank. We will give that money already in the budget for next year, in the 2014 and 2015 budget. We will pay for three years, citizens of all Serbia, and Leskovci, and from Prijepolje, from Piroth will pay for the dubiosis made by the political furniture at the "Vojvodine Development Bank". So 50m euros is not Vojvodina's money, but Serbia's citizens' money. That's one thing. The second thing – 140m euros in deposit insurance is not guaranteed by Vojvodina. Let Vojvodina take over guarantees for all secured deposits up to 50,000 euros in Vojvodina territory, I don't mind -- guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia. In the event of collapse, all citizens of all Serbia should again compensate for errors in political governance. The third thing - if this bank had shown in the previous period that the recapitalisation was helping her, I would now be silent and I would accept perhaps some arguments from the province's government. In two years, however, 150m euros have already been put in, not only of the province's money, but I also said, in part, of the republican money. We didn't broadcast it from the Republic, that's what the previous government did, the previous finance minister. The problem is that already several recapitalisations have not shown that the bank is able to stand. So, 150m euros are already being placed there in the form of capitalisation, and now they need another 150m euros. It's like a drug to you - there's no end. There's no end to death. Now I'm telling you the most serious thing. Why? If the 150m euros had been successful, they would not now be asking for another 150m and would not have the degree of credit -- what is the principle of the bank's work, and why is the same as the Agrobanks never talked about in public? The public began to talk about the Agrobank problem only in May of this year, when a decision was made to withdraw the license for the work of the old Agrobank and form "New Agrobank". Those who were responsible for this, it wasn't you, but some of your colleagues kept quiet about the problem and led to citizens paying a much higher price now than that the problem was seen on time. I think it is extremely responsible that what I am doing and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, we are on time to warn of the "Vojvodine Development Bank" problem, which operates unsustainable. I have no evidence that it will do otherwise compared to previous years, and is required to give another 150m euros. It is true that the province will give it, but in the event of failure, the price will not be paid by the province but by the Republic, that is, will pay both the province and the Republic, and even if it is not agreeable, the Republic pays the price, because we have to guarantee the secured deposits under the law which is republican. That's the whole point. In all other matters, the province really has full autonomy to decide on matters that apply, in accordance with the law, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. This isn't a thing that's just a country character, this thing is a national character. I don't know how many savings there are that may not be from Vojvodina, but we have to take care of them as well as the duchy savings, for all secured deposits. In what sense, we are not jeopardizing this way "Vojvodine Development Bank", but we are suggesting that a better solution is to save all deposits compared to capitalization. Of course, we don't interfere with the decision of the province government. What if in two years we come back here to the Assembly and we have to issue additional funds for the Vojvodina Development Bank? I want it recorded that I was against it today, that we are already aware today that this bank has a contaminated activity. I'm telling you again that I don't know a single case in the world with a single insertion of a couple of states, that a contaminated activity with 75% of non-rechargeable plasmas can be cured. With these 150m euros, which is an enormous capital injection by borrowing Vojvodina, it will be brought to the level of some capital adequacy, in accordance with the law, at the moment today. What happens in a year? If capital adequateness falls again, as it has repeatedly fallen in previous years, new recapitalisations will be sought again. It is this metaphor of a man who, when under opiates, is constantly looking for a new one – there is no end, cannot be stopped. That's the problem, and that's why, in our opinion, it's an economically better solution than to not allow, as in the case of Agrobanka, instead of intervening a year ago, costs would have been lower. In the case of Vojvodina Development Bank, if this law were applied, the costs for everything -- both for Vojvodina and for Serbia, would be lower. Why the Vojvodina? It would not have to be 150m euros to give and to capitalise on banks that have a chance of success due to the past and poor governance. Simply, this is how the situation is found, it would already be used for certain more useful projects in Vojvodina. These are the funds on which the province of Vojvodina has rights, where it independently decides where to place them. But we think that, in view of here, there are obligations that arise in the future in both the provinces and the Republic, it is smarter and more economical to invest it either for the social protection of those who are at risk in Vojvodina, or for the construction of missing roads. There are a lot of problems in Vojvodina that need to be solved with this money, rather than being added to a bank run politically. Simple, that's for sure. If that weren't the case, there wouldn't be any problems. I understand that you are quite well-intentioned in your discussion, but don't lose sight of these three arguments why the Ministry of Finance of the Republic talks so much about the "Vojvodine Development Bank", even though we only have 20% of the ownership, for those three reasons. So we guarantee 140m euros in secured deposits in Vojvodina Development Bank, and that is our obligation, that if it collapses, the whole of Serbia must make up for it. The Republic has already made the decision of the previous government, which is 50m euros in Vojvodina Development Bank. This will only be paid and burdened by the Republic of Serbia's budget for the purpose. By that amount, we are increasing the amount of financial resources we have to obtain in order to fulfil that obligation. Finally, we don't believe that the province, you say it has the right to decide. She has the right to decide, but has already shown that she has made a loss of 150m euros, and now 300m euros have made a loss in the last two years. The only thing that has never been known so far is that no one knew anything about this alive, this has been kept quiet. If someone says they were MPs' objections, then that province got the support of the people. If the people knew about this, I doubt they'd get support.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3523	Replica. National MP Janko Veselinović. Please bring the end of the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3524	The chairman, I thank you and we certainly cannot reach the time Minister Dinkic had yesterday and today in this national assembly, but I also see some good intentions and a desire to make a solution that will be good for the citizens of Serbia, or the people of Vojvodina in this case. I wouldn't comment on this assessment of election results. I've only got two other suggestions and I won't answer again, and that's the first thing I'm asking you to do is to sort of ask you not to interfere with the independent NBS decision on this matter, or decision, the request for capitalization. If you do so, you will make a serious precedent against the law and show that the National Bank is a political institution, which I would not like as an opposition MP. On the other hand, I warn you once again that this bank is not only founded under one law but that it has a foothold in the Law on the Powers of the AP Vojvodina and that it is in some way its own way, if we take comparisons and partnership with some laws relating to public undertakings or institutions of public importance, is not liquidated just like that, or is not put under flight. We know that public enterprises can't just go bankrupt. The Vojvodina Development Bank is one of the economic foundations of development. (President: Time.) I'm done. I don't think your drug comparison is good. Maybe it's drugs and I wanted a second MP in the Assembly, maybe it's drugs to be a minister three or four times. It's a legitimate right for everyone to behave the way he thinks it's good for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3525	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3526	I didn't say it wasn't legitimate or even legal, but I said it was harmful. The other thing, and I said it once already, we're not going to have any intention at all of us to interfere with anything the NBS has jurisdiction because the NBS is an independent institution and it's all made up by itself. We interfered in the previous phase because we're co-owners of that bank. The Republic of Serbia has that 20% in Vojvodina Development Bank. In the end, I won't be longer since we've talked a lot, of course the province has the right to one development institution, but it's also much more economically wise, and even politically, if we want to talk about the risk of developing such development institutions being borne only by political furniture, and not by all citizens who are through the fact that "Vojvodine Development Bank" is not a fund but is a commercial bank. The Vojvodina Development Bank has the Central Bank's permission to work as any commercial bank in Serbia. It would be much better if she were some kind of fund, not to collect savings on citizens, because if there's even something political going on, don't get me wrong, sometimes in undeveloped areas you need to give credit even though it might not be worth it, but you can't do it to do the money you're collecting from the savings of citizens, but it has to be a fund, and that fund can be constantly subsidized from the assets of the province. A province like the Republic should have such a fund instead of a commercial bank. When I say commercial, I mean a business bank in that sense because it's too much of a risk. In the end, why is it a risk? Citizens don't go to that bank because they trust the province, but because that bank gives huge interest rates. The world history of banking teaches us that in the case of interest rates in banks, one human trait is most expressed, and that is greed. People in the race for this kind of profit invest with higher interest even aware of that risk. Various pyramid schemes in other countries of the world have shown this. Even when an example occurs, it's not a lesson for the future. When you see what interest rates there are and what they are now given, it's clear that people are investing there because they want to get a higher interest rate. That's why I tell all Serbian citizens -- don't look at the height of the interest rate. Everything that is at the moment of this year 2012 above 5% is suspicious. How do you repay that interest money if you take 5%, how much does it have to be placed to get back? Responsible and strong banks can't offer high interest on savings. These interest rates are symbolic in developed countries – in Japan 0.05%, in America 1%, in Switzerland as well, in Germany as well. Serbia is specific and can be more interest rates, but when 6% or 7% of the interest rate, I don't believe anyone is giving any more today, so it's an automatic signal that something is wrong with that bank, as soon as through calls at high interest rates it tries to attract the depositors. That's how she did Agrobank and got into this situation. That's how the Vojvodina Development Bank works. So I say that there is no difference between them and that instead of saving citizens in political projects, if there is a need for political projects, and yet I say I have understanding because all countries have such institutions, then these are not the institutions of citizens who collect savings and deposits of businesses but are financed from budgets. So is the German Development Bank, and it does not collect savings for citizens. That's what other development banks in the world are like. Even that proposal the previous government made to form Serbia's development bank stems from not collecting citizens' savings. That's what I'm talking about for a very good reason. Our proposal was even for Mr. Pitiæ to make what remains a stronger development fund and to put budget funds into it. If he wants 150m euros for not giving them up at the Vojvodina Development Fund, which already exists or a similar institution exists. It's a risk to give into an institution and to play with the savings of citizens. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3527	I ask MP Milan Lapčević on what basis he appears. (National Ambassador Milan Lapcevic from the post: I want to talk about the amendment. Hold on, please. National MP Gordana Komic wants a word. On what basis are you answering? (National MP Gordana Komic from the post: I want to use the time of the parliamentary group. You've already spoken to Mrs. Comic about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3528	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Lapcevic has the advantage of signing up, but I thank you. Because it is important to clarify in the discussion of this amendment and what is said. I am pleased that the finance minister at the beginning of his last exhibition said that the government of Vojvodina's actions, the actions of the Prime Minister of Vojvodina are legitimate and legal, but he, as finance minister, believes that they are harmful, which is also legitimate and legal, but he gives me hope that we will understand each other because I think that everything he proposes is harmful. What is possible and illegal and illegal when it comes to the ethics of the intentions that we should believe are good when it comes to the "Vojvodine Development Bank" and thematicizing of its status as bad or good, however, in the discussion of the law on bank takeover? The finance minister said yesterday there were interested banks to take over the Vojvodina Development Bank. Before the law came into the process, before the amendment of Article 1 to the Government's proposal today was made before it was even assessed what and in what way, with which provisions this law would eventually be adopted. I'm not sure how legitimate it is and how legal it is that the finance minister is looking for banks that will be taken over by a bank that he doesn't agree to be any takeover. That's not harmful. That's illegal. I suppose, if it's illegal, it's also harmful. I'm not here to judge. That's why I'm glad the finance minister introduced the conversation that what the government of Vojvodina is doing is both legitimate and legal, but he has an estimate that it's harmful. What can be debated about? If we're already having a debate, I'd like to ask that at any point in the debate, since it's also said that it's a simple account when an estimate of charging and that these are quite simple figures, and they're said. Eight billion savings in the total financial market, 250m euros here, and the non-payment at Agrobank produces 80% of the total poor 20%. If the bill is simple, I asked you to tell me how much that number would be, if there was no non-payment of Agrobanks and credits that are mentioned as non-refundable, which I don't question at all, or slow down. I repeat, what I dispute is that the Minister of Finance's assessment of the capacity of the government of Vojvodina and the assessment of the finance minister of what needs to or should not be done with a bank over which there is no jurisdiction, even under this law, that they have to be considered unquestionable. You know, if that were true, then this whole session wouldn't be necessary. Then we return to my position from the principle debate. If you will once enter a law that will put aside the power of other laws, if you will once enter a rule that the Assembly transfers its powers to the Government, if you will once accept that it is no doubt beyond any doubt that the finance minister says something is harmful, then that must be the case. No one else can question his, her, whatever, assessment of what's harmful, if it is, as the finance minister himself here said, quite legal and legitimate behavior in the government of Vojvodina. We have a much bigger problem, the minister was talking about silence, whether we will keep it quiet for this assembly to get an argument of urgency on Sunday's savings, so let the government, in the next two years, if the ruling majority adopts the amendment, treat any bank with direct or indirect control participation of the Republic of Serbia, in the same way as "Agrobanks". Are we going to keep it quiet that if the minister thinks something is harmful, then MPs can't have any arguments about it. The MPs will always have something to say, and that is what this congregation is for. MPs listen very carefully to what it is that the minister's argument for the introduction of Vojvodina Development Bank is on the subject of this debate. We fully understood the motive. He's really human. The minister had good intentions to make a deal with the government of Vojvodina, and the government of Vojvodina said – we understand the ministers' good intentions, but we have different estimates. It's quite possible that the government of Vojvodina also has a bad or good estimate, but our job here is to question whether a good or bad assessment has a finance minister. The finance minister shared with us the information that he had already spoken to before the debate started yesterday, so he couldn't during the day, because we worked all day, and the day before yesterday, sorry, and there are banks that are interested in Vojvodina Development Bank. I'd like to share here what's legitimate and what's legal. Any argument about speaking hypothetically will return to what the minister otherwise shares with us as an argument, which is that he has good intentions. I repeat, it is not enough to have good intentions. I'll hesitate to quote a famous proverb about how long it leads the path paved by good intentions. I would ask you as an argument that you know better, that you do not disrespect people who work elsewhere in Serbia, because being elected ministers does not make him, without evidence and verification, better and more able to assess than anyone who works on similar jobs in any institution. The thing is, we cross arguments, not emotions. The point is to prove our good intentions and our legitimate and legal behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3529	Thank you very much. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3530	Just because I respect you and appreciate you very much, I don't want to argue with some things that someone who isn't an economist can't know. I challenge something that has nothing to do with the economy, which is the fact that our MP Sasa Milenic pointed out in his replica. It's that you replace the thesis and completely untruely display the contents of things. I'll tell you what's going on. You said just before that we had a few days before the Assembly started talking to potential banks interested in taking over the Vojvodina Development Bank. I didn't say that. No one is alive interested in taking over the Vojvodina Development Bank. Listen to me. The Vojvodina Development Bank will not be taken over on the market as a whole. There are interested in taking over deposits, only deposits, "Vojvodine Development Banks" and only insured. Since they are the only ones covered by bonds, i.e. liquid assets and part of a mandatory reserve at the Central Bank. When I went to Novi Sad a few weeks ago to consult the province according to the 2013 budget law, when we finished that part of the budget talks, I discussed a possible problem with Mr. Pajtic at Vojvodina Development Bank. They weren't aware of the current level of trouble at the time. They thought they needed maybe 40m euros for the capitalisation, and the Central Bank's analysis wasn't finished then either. Then I told Mr. Pajtic that if the problem is so big, perhaps it could be asked by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Financial Corporation, to eventually capitalise on the "Vojvodine Development Bank". In Tokyo, I spoke with IFC Vice President and senior officials of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. When they see those balances and after the IMF's report, no one thought of entering the Vojvodina Development Bank, or capital. We need to distinguish these two things. No one in Serbia, outside Serbia, is interested in taking over the Vojvodina Development Bank, because this would mean that it is taking over 75% of the unpaid claims and 100m euros of unsecured unsecured deposits. So, to be clear, I never said that. I said that there are banks that work in Serbia that would be willing to take over only secured deposits of the "Vojvodine Development Bank" and unsecured, provided that the state, whether it's a province or a republic, pumps 100m euros in securities of value. With that proposal, we officially left, days before joining the Assembly, before the province government, because we received a report from the Central Bank that the "Vojvodine Development Bank" should be recapitalised with 150m euros. I was out of Serbia when Mr Pajtic was at the National Bank of Serbia, but my colleague Branko Popovic was at the meeting. They were there for six hours at the Central Bank and said they were ready to recapitulate the Vojvodina Development Bank for 50m euros. When the central bank staff told them that 50 million is not enough, but that 150m euros is needed, the reaction was – well, we will give 150m euros. I don't know what kind of analysis they could do in about five minutes and make a decision at the meeting itself that instead of what they expected to be missing from Vojvodina Development Bank, which is 50m euros, they say -- we can do 150m euros. It is precisely such an easy decision that we are concerned about, because the wrong decisions will not only be paid by the province's government, but will be paid by all citizens of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia guarantees 140m euros. Secondly, you're saying we don't have jurisdiction over Vojvodina Development Bank, and you've heard multiple times in this discussion that the Republic is co-owner with about 20%. I repeat once again, I believe you know this law, I will not say that you do not know it because you know it for sure, by law the Ministry of Finance decides on the roles of the Republic in any bank of Serbia and normally that we have jurisdiction because we are co-owners. That's why we're also dealing with Vojvodina Development Bank. The emergency argument remains even if the province capitalises the Vojvodina Development Bank. For the future, why? In the event of a failure to run Vojvodina Development Bank in half a year, a year, in the event of a possible collapse of Vojvodina Development Bank, we do not have time for speedy procedures, but we can use this law and carry out a transfer, but only secured deposits in that case, because we would not then be ready to cover unsecured deposits on one of the bank's acquirers in accordance with this law, which would be determined on the basis of auctions, or would be invited to give the most favourable conditions for the state, to take over deposits, and only secured bank deposits. If you're asking me why I spoke to parliament before entering parliament, because any serious finance minister needs to know if there is any alternative to any case that is going on, especially when it comes to the financial sector. Of course we talked. We're not gonna do anything when we see a problem in front of us. I repeat, no one is interested in taking over the capital of Vojvodina Development Bank because of 75% of the outstanding claims, not a single bank. You may have misunderstood me, but I never said that. There is an interest in taking over secured deposits and unsecured under the condition of a 100m-euro charter of the province and the Republic's value. That's what I said two days ago, but I repeat once again, I don't know if you deliberately replaced the thesis in my words, I believe it was intentional, but here, I gave an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3531	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3532	I am speaking to you, Mr. Chairman, in accordance with Article 106, and I ask you to ensure that this debate in the Assembly is a debate on amendments, because it is obvious that in the current course of the discussion it does not look like an amendment debate. I say this for a simple reason because, in principle, I have called everyone to account, including us MPs, it is a law that is very important, whether anyone supports it or not. The consequences of this law will certainly feel either negative or positive. That's why I invite you to secure order in the O.R., in the sense that we are all responsible for sticking to the Rules of Procedure and discussing amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3533	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3534	I'll be brief. It was very interesting to listen to this debate as to whether the request of the Prime Minister of Vojvodina and his position was legitimate and legal, so I suggest to the promoters and those who defend this claim that what they legitimately and legally cover from their own budget. I demand of you, Minister Dinkic, one thing only, that in the Budget Act for next year, since you have provided that the state of Serbia guarantees the stakes if the Vojvodine Development Bank fails, another member will be introduced in order to say, if there is a collapse and if the state of Serbia has to intervene with 150m euros, that there will be a suspension of the AP Vojvodina transfer and let those in their works 7%, as they receive under the Constitution, guarantee that the savings stakes have failed. Where is it in the world that someone guarantees to fund you and you can be independent and gamble with money that isn't yours? Tell me, who will allow their child to borrow and gamble and guarantee and make up for what he lost every time? It's nowhere to be found. On behalf of citizens who do not live in Vojvodina, on behalf of those who are from Nis, Chačka, Kralje, Užica, I demand of you, you have no right to hire us with something that is political projects on the territory of Vojvodina, that we cover their gambling projects, that is out of the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3535	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3536	Thank you very much. I'm reporting for the amendment. Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the second day I listen very carefully to the debate about this law and I simply have to answer my word to speak of this amendment as well. Especially during today’s debates, some things have been pretty crystallized. First of all, Mr. Minister, you're in an explanation, when you said why you were proposing this law, you stated that the situation in the Agrobank was that it was that you were invited to propose this law in the procedure. So again, the situation arises that Vojvodina is coming as some collateral damage over some other topic that was primarily dominant when the law was written, and during the debate, it was understood or wished to involve some developmental bank of Vojvodina over the whole story. It's the first thing that's visible. The other thing is that you literally compromise law enforcement, because this Article 3. The bill really raises questions why, then, all those laws that had this function to somehow protect the functioning of the banking and financial system? Thirdly, it is a very important explanation that you presented in today's debate why you feel it is necessary to end this whole story about the Vojvodine Development Bank, by simply driving it into bankruptcy and simply destroying it. For the first reason you listed some 50m euros, which the Republic of Serbia has already invested in the bank. Secondly, you listed 140m euros in deposit insurance, and as a third reason you have raised your suspicion of a positive outcome of capitalisation. I would like to give you a fact that is very important, that this Parliament has ratified the mass of guarantees for loans from public enterprises, and for which loans you and how you fought as Minister of Economy in the former government. I would like to quote, say, "The Railways of Serbia", "The Ways of Serbia", "JAT" and "Serbiagas". Here, the fall session of this parliament began with a ratification of a loan guarantee also intended for "Srbigas". You went to the United Arab Emirates and offered 25,000 ha of the Vojvodina agricultural land for 12 aircraft to revive a failed public enterprise. I'm sorry, it went public with this claim. So, you here, in fact, with this law and this amendment to the Finance Committee, and also during today's debates of MPs of the post and of someone from the opposition, you literally split the money into money from the Republic of Serbia and from the money of the AP Vojvodina. Because if you are so concerned about the interests of the people of Vojvodina that the citizens of Vojvodina will suffer the consequences of the poor work of the "Vojvodine Development Bank", I would only remind you that the citizens of Vojvodina are also having consequences for all those investments in Serbia, Serbia, JAT and all other public enterprises, including the Fiat flag and for those billions and for the increase in budget deficits that have actually grown in the meantime since this government was established. So, these are all topics that we really need to talk about, but when it comes to the agenda of this kind of law that has been intended, I want to believe that your intentions are good, that in some way quality is solved by the problem that has arisen in one bank and this New Agrobank, I don't think we can just accept the fact that the whole problem is ultimately brought down to the state of the Vojvodina Development Bank. You know how, Vojvodina, apart from having a certain share in the republican budget, by presupposing that money to be transferred by the Constitution, Vojvodina transfers the money created in Vojvodina to the republican budget. Therefore, you simply cannot if you continue to think that there is a Republic of Serbia and with the AP Vojvodina, to split the money into the money of the Republic of Serbia and the money of the AP Vojvodina, with only bad consequences to be suffered by the AP Vojvodina. Just one more thing to add and finish. Indeed, when the duchy parliament makes a decision to capitalise on the "Vojvodine Development Bank", you know that there are probably certain expectations that all this will produce positive consequences. Therefore, in advance to doubt it and only for the reasons of this doubt to bring the Vojvodina into this Article the 1st law which you are actually giving yourself the possibility, far greater than the one you had previously to intervene in the "Vojvodine Development Bank" will allow a bit of trouble. So, the bottom line is that laws must be respected, and the Constitution too, because the constitution also provides for the financing of the Vojvodina. You know, when the Vojvodina Development Bank...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3537	Please, you'll have to listen to me. This has already gone beyond any tolerance. We need to focus on the amendment. There has been a general debate on the Law on Banks, not amendments. I ask you to concentrate on a concrete amendment in this sense and to conduct a further discussion. Go ahead and finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3538	Thank you very much. I'm really going to finish this time. It's not my group of MPs, it's the DSS's MP who cited the findings of the Republic of Vojvodina. So we didn't talk about the people of Vojvodina going to suffer the consequences of their political decisions, and we didn't really share money on the one belonging to the AP Vojvodina and the money that belongs to the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3539	I ask the MPs not to abuse my tolerance. I can strictly support the Rules of Procedure and the time to put this debate into motion as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. Now we will translate this debate according to the amendments into a debate in principle. I don't think this leads to anything. Please, let's act like one. There is a word from MP Milan Lapčević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3540	So he'll never hear from the DSS MPs anything that's going to look like nothing anywhere near that Vojvodina can ever reconcile something called the Republic. If someone in their presentation makes a lapus, and the other abuses it really says more about him than it does about him or me that I've been talking about. I will repeat once again that we will always support something that is the essential autonomy of the Vojvodina, but that we pay what they do, and that they decide everything, it will never be possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3541	Thank you. The word is Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3542	I really don't understand things here. I can understand that someone is defending things they don't know, but I can't understand that someone is defending some things they know if they're bad and making a substitute for thesis, like you're doing to say that we're talking about some sort of split money in Serbian and duchy. All the time the people of the province who are now representing the province talk about it. Every time I come to the congregation, they ask, "Where's the part that's for the Vojvodina and where's this or that?" I was just saying today that in the case of banks, the responsibility of the Republic is essential to the damage caused. The province here has no financial responsibility in the event of the collapse of the Vojvodine Development Bank, because the Republic makes up for that part, those deposits, and that's what Mr. People's MP told you. I don't understand what kind of division we're talking about here. It really is a gamble. It's when you know that the damage you won't pay and now you legitimately decide to put 150m euros into a bank that you already know for yourself that you've already put 150m euros in the previous two years, several times in smaller tranches, even took one piece of money from the Republic, 50m euros and failed again, and yet you still have to throw in more. What's that, a cube? It's pure gambling, pure gambling. It's called a moral gambling business. So the comparison with the cube is right, maybe better than the one I gave with the drugs. This is purely moral gambling, but at the expense of citizens of all Serbia, including those living in Vojvodina territory, because they pay taxes as well as citizens in Belgrade, citizens in central Serbia. In the case of the collapse, Vojvodina Development Bank is all paying for damages, and so I say this decision is not only possible in this situation when we talk about the province's banking system, it cannot have full autonomy to decide on this problem. For the reason that the Republic is co-owner, for the reason that it has already given money and the reasons it guarantees for all secured deposits in all banks. I repeat, it would not be a moral hazard for the province to make a decision to owe 150m euros to any development project on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, including for the formation of a rural development fund, or the introduction of money into an already existing circuit fund that would place that money on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Then it's not moral gambling, it's the legitimate right of the AP Vojvodina. But to get into a bank that's only two years old named Vojvodina, because this bank has a 150-year tradition, so to break it, I don't know what, this bank only changed its name two years ago, it was "Metals Bank" and it had exposures all over Serbia. Today I think the Vojvodina Development Bank has exposures not only in the province's territory but in some other cities outside the province's territory. So we're not talking here right now about a violation I don't know what traditions, we're talking about a bad bank, like "New Agrobank" bad, so the "Vojvodine Development Bank" is bad. I think it would be irresponsible if we had been in the Assembly for two days and talked only about "New Agrobank", and we had the same situation and we know that we have the same situation with "Vojvodine Development Bank". If they didn't know about it, that's another case. I believe that you, many of these things didn't know before the session started, because anyone who doesn't have information from the Central Bank can't know that. But working in silence is a series of failed recapitalisations and applauding the new one, which is the biggest so far, I think it's true, I'm not going to talk about politics, it's morally irresponsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3543	Mrs. Judith, I think you want a replica, but you have no basis for a replica, especially when you focus on the principle in your discussion, not the amendment. Please give up Thank you. He has the word National MP Olgica Batic
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3544	I thank you for your word. I would like to point out that this parliamentary group has submitted amendments to Article 1(2), Article 5, Article 6, Article 12, Article 14, Article 15, of the proposed law, and so far has not been able to participate in the debate in particular, because this session looks like all of this, just what we're talking about, it doesn't look like. In fact, since this law is an unconstitutional law, which we have already talked about, it represents as such one legal violence, and for the sole purpose is to confiscate and nationalise and that private property. When a bank falls into any financial problem and cannot settle its debts, bankruptcy proceedings are launched. What's a bankruptcy case for anyway? Under this bill, it's obvious he's not serving anything. The laws that were made for Agrobank, and the finance minister said yesterday that this bill also applies to Vojvodina Development Bank, but did not explicitly state... .
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3545	Please listen to me, I have warned all MPs that I will make sure you stick to the agenda. Here is the debate on the amendment to Article 4. I don't recognize your discussion...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3546	I am an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, deputy member of the SP-DHSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3547	All right, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3548	Thank you finally.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3549	I also warn you as an authorised representative, you must refer to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3550	I was just leaving about the amendment. It would have been easier for me if Mr. Risticevic had called me out so he would have given me a replica, than I've waited so long. So, the law that has just been made and which has just been written for Agrobank and for the Vojvodine Development Bank, is not applicable, and in this impertinence goes so far that the laws to be applied are not applied, and they are explicitly referred to in Article 3. I must point out that the law, however it is, bears a name with each other, that they are equal legal forces, and here, with one bill, the three laws that are in force are derivated, so the question to which this law applies is raised. In its Article 6, it applies to each bank after the government's decision, and on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and Understanding of the NBS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3551	Mrs Batic, please, now you convince me that you're talking about the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3552	All the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3553	No, I don't recognize it at all, and I'm asking you to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3554	I'm talking about the amendment right now. It's just this is an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3555	What you're saying is a debate in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3556	No, this is exactly the debate on the amendments that have been submitted, and there are many that DHSS and SPO have submitted. Please allow me to continue because everyone here has spoken without any basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3557	I ask the MPs to allow the speaker to complete his presentation and not to earn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3558	Thank you for the third time. I ask the question to whom is this law applied? It applies to each bank after the government's decision, and on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and the consent of the NBS. By what criteria? There's no criterion at all, and that's something I was talking about. I'm asking the Minister of Finance, what will happen to the shareholders? What if the shareholders file charges they must not ask themselves because they have no right to sue because this law does not allow them to do so. This also draft law, and this is a member of the 15th Parliament group to which the amendment has been tabled and explained in detail – over a bank whose property and liabilities are being transferred, is being subject to bankruptcy under the rule of state, i.e. Deposit Insurance Agency. Now, ladies and gentlemen are listed on page eight of what is called a bill that - interested parties have had the opportunity to make their views on the bill, and that all relevant institutions, including the Deposit Insurance Agency, were involved in the draft of this law. I don't just know how she could have been involved, since the law that's just been ruled out by the Deposit Insurance Agency by such an unconstitutional bill from its application. I also ask the question of who the creditors are and what property is in the event of bankruptcy, and ultimately this proposal laws regardless of all the arguments that are being made here, whenever we have presented it in principle, were now in particular, according to the amendments absolutely and extremely unconstitutional and bordered with anti-natural fornication. After all, Mr. Finance here said he would not speak much, and he was just using time, so on behalf of the DHSS and the SPO, she would ask him to speak as little as possible and spare the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are now listening to this in direct transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3559	Please speak your chosen words.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3560	I didn't say anything offensive. PRESIDENT: The word has a National MP, Teodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3561	So when we're talking about this particular part of the contract that takes over part of the assets or the total part of the liabilities between the transferor bank and the acquirer bank, you can't ask who owns it. It is the matter of this amendment we do not replace these thesis. Why is it important to say? Well, didn't we read in the paper the other day that the province finally managed to book a building that holds its headquarters? It means she's enlisted in the province's property. Is today one law that needs what we have partly begun to return to the province, the local self-government, to take back now with the other law. It is available to other people's property because it is no longer the property of the Republic of Serbia. You can't get into the system laws at a small door, even with the congregation's majority and the law. So what it's about not believing why we're all coming out of the framework of the amendment is that in the principle of the amendments, we didn't have what was done to us by amending the amendment. I'm sorry, the amendment the government proposed, and the Committee accepted, is a change in the size of banks, it was only in discussion, today it's clearly in the law. When it's done, it's better to reopen the debate. The law changes overnight and that's something to see. Does anyone care about someone's interests, of course we should all be responsible and we all care about the interests of our citizens. What is irresponsible here, which is allowed, is to divide MPs and citizens from Vojvodina and the rest of Serbia. So, all citizens separate for the budget and there's no difference. All the failures, anywhere, cost the citizens of all of Serbia. Don't make such speeches, such debates that divide us and tear us apart. What is the interest of today's debate to point our finger at the people of one and the other, and to say to them, "Yes, you are poor because they take away others from you." I don't know what that's about, it's political irresponsibility. I'm sorry, Chairman, I did get out of the context of the amendment, but I'm just sitting here, I can't say. It must not be allowed and you have the responsibility as chairman to draw attention, that such things, because it is not a debate on the law, it is not an economic issue, it is not a quantification, it is direct, that is why political responsibility should be borne. So what's totally unclear from all these discussions, and it's specifically about the Vojvodina Development Bank. Whether the Vojvodina Development Bank will be allowed to do what it planned, what the Vojvodina Assembly is, it's not about one man. Yesterday was the assembly of Vojvodina, the appropriate decisions were made. Will it be allowed to apply the decisions of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, and not in this way proposed to resolve it, will that be allowed? I know, the ball was transferred to the People's Bank and the responsibility to the People's Bank, that's what you said, yes, but at the same time I remember a long time, some names I know, I saw next week at the session you're proposing, no matter what normal, the governor of the National Bank is celebrating. So, we know, we're not calm until we see that it's possible for the province to make what has been legitimate, legal decisions, to give it a chance to implement. And whoever, whomever you trust, sees a little bit of Lala in Koraks' cartoons, then you will see whom the citizens of the Duke believe. It's simply unprincipled to have a political debate like this, to attack legitimately and legally chosen boundaries, to wonder if it's revenge, and should we get revenge for one of these laws?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3562	Thank you. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3563	Thank you for fully supporting everything I've been saying all morning, I'm really grateful. In the first part of your discussion, you said everything I've been saying all morning. The other thing, you asked if they'd be allowed? We gave our consent under the law three days ago, we no longer wonder about it, but it doesn't mean we shouldn't say what the consequences of the political decision of the autonomous province are. The province will be independent in making that decision. I don't want anyone to tell me tomorrow - why didn't you say that when it was on the agenda? I said that, I have a clear conscience, and others take care of their conscience, of course, I don't mean you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3564	Thank you, Mr. Minister. He has the word National MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3565	I thank you. Here's where I finally come in. Ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of reporting, but just for the record, we are discussing Amendment Four on the bill and members of one party have proposed that the entire law be deleted, amendment by amendment, member by member, to delete the entire law. The impression here is that all the Dukes are against this bill, at least on the discussions that are being held, so just for the sake of the public and those who are looking at us to say that I live in Vojvodina, as well as some other MPs who do not report for a word, and who have nothing to do with putting "Vojvodine Development Bank" in the same plane as any other banks to which this law applies.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3566	I ask the MP not to label the MPs by territoriality.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3567	What, I don't understand?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3568	Here you go. Do you understand me?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3569	No, I said I live in Vojvodina, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3570	Please, you can say it another way.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3571	I really don't know. I'm sorry, Chairman, I'll say it another way, and I can prove visually that I live in the territory of the Vojvodina. So, I live in New Carlovci, Indjia, and I belong to the People's Peasant Party, which was founded in the 1990s, and which was the first to respect its AP Vojvodina programme, while the members of one party, who today so loudly denied it at that time, almost didn't exist. I mean, there's an impression here, at least those who are watching, that this is where the AP Vojvodina came into question, not a few banks that have done very bad business and have made huge minuses. So, for the record, it's not about the AP Vojvodina. I even think that if there was no law and if this member and other members were deleted, I think the greatest damage would be to the savings right in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I believe they play the most role in that bank. I'm afraid someone here has seen that bank as a party bank. This looks to me like that bank was the bank-pig that the party was taking from, and that's why it's in the government of the AP Vojvodina at the moment. It's not about the bank of the AP Vojvodina, it's not about the government of Vojvodina, this bank exists as far as I know in Nis and in five or six other cities in Serbia. The collapse of Vojvodina Development Banks would automatically call for major consequences for both savings and for citizens who would have to recover all these losses. I'm afraid that "Vojvodine Development Bank", which has been mentioned so often, was in fact a political project, and the placements of that bank are simply ridiculous and therefore this amendment to Article 4 and to any other amendments that read, is deleted. It's just that someone is trying to prevent this law from being passed with that kind of amendment. No one will say, and I will say, no matter what I live in Vojvodina, that this bank has made a minus, which is almost 200 or 300 million euros, and that this minus is worth, in a way to compensate, and that no one is talking about it, they're just talking about, that we don't accidentally lose that bank, and that someone has to add to that bank, because someone's been taking it from that bank, that's what nobody's taking care of. Do you need someone to throw money away? For the most part, rich people, those who have either for the benefit of rich people and for the benefit of people who and how they have considerable assets and substantial funds, and we need to make up for it again from the budget, and if this amendment were to be adopted, and if this law were to be deleted and if it hadn't been adopted, the consequences would be enormous. All banks can then look up to that bank, and then the state would have to resupply the losses, so everyone could deal with the plasmas that are simply funny, which serve only to, in my opinion, restore the power of one party to the AP Vojvodina. The point of this law isn't to meet them, and that they could rebuild their power with one bank, and it almost became a matter of life and death, I think, for that very reason. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3572	The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3573	Once again, let me remind you of the Rules of Procedure and how the debate and debate are being held in principle in Article 158. This discussion so far, and I must say, as head of the parliamentary group, it is simply amazing that those who are most responsible for the situation in which these two banks are and the total banking system and the threat that hangs over the heads of all those citizens who have been saving, are today irresponsibly trying to obstruct and stop the adoption of a law that is both for them and for the people who have been deceived. It doesn't make sense, and I'm calling for responsibility. Do you know what this looks like? You set your house on fire with carelessness. Firemen come to put out, and you throw rocks at them. Believe me, that's the whole point of the debate. We all know who made decisions, who managed public finances. We talk all the time about responsibility, and yet some of us act... I'm more comfortable looking at you. When we change places... (President: Please do not address one another. ) Therefore, everything is stated in the explanation that this law was passed in order to truly protect the financial system. Do you all have a common awareness of the fact that hundreds of thousands of people are watching this, and especially those who have left their savings there and with the unbelievers are awaiting the outcome of today’s sessions and the Assembly? I repeat again, it is simply amazing to me that those who have the most involvement in these disastrous results of the work of these banks, those who have been responsible to get there, those who have pushed things under the rug are now trying to suspend this law, to disable its application and to show that they are irresponsible to those people who have savings. Mr. President, please, since I have also abused the pay phone, you should bring me and each future into that current that is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3574	It would have been good if you hadn't challenged others. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milovanovic appears.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3575	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, you have violated the article. 27, 106 and 107. The Rules of Procedure for a number of reasons. First of all, we don't deal with amendments at all, even the minister is talking about drugs, cubes, applause, etc. So we're completely off the subject. The other thing is, I came forward on the amendment of my colleague Gordana Komic. We moved on to the next amendment and you didn't appreciate it at all. Next thing you know, if there's already talk about DS, about the province board of DS, let me just say a few things. Law on the Guarantee Fund of the Republic of Serbia, "Official Messenger" No. 55 since 2003, he said in Article 8: "The value of holding state capital must not be less than 51%". (President: Please, Mr. Milovanovic, you have advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I accept that, but I will give you an answer. Let me just finish. In the contract then, the finance minister signed a contract between the Guarantee Fund and 30 banks. This value of the opposition was 1.5 billion. Since history is the mother of all teachers, we need to know one thing, that we now attach rotten tissue to the healthy tissue of the Postage Savings. That's what I wanted to talk to you about with this amendment. The Guarantee Fund is then attached to the Development Fund. (President: I ask the People's MPs to order. Here you go, Mr. Milovanovic. ) At that time, the Guarantee Fund was attached to the Development Fund and the Development Fund had serious problems afterwards. I'm warning from my best intentions, that this would not happen again to the National Savings, that it should be responsible when things like this are brought in. We read in the paper that the government is going to buy a new plane, let the ministers ride in the ordinary class, if it's time to save and the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3576	I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. All MPs have come forward by amendment. I'll remind you that we're still on amendment number four. We haven't moved on to the next amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, Maja Gojkovic appears. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3577	I thank you, presidencies, for giving me the floor of the Rules of Procedure after a long-standing battle with the other MPs who today intend to perhaps obstruct parliament's work. I want to point to an article. 105th and 106th, if anyone is more attached to the Rules of Procedure at all, says a member of the Rules of Procedure that we should work on and which is the law for this Parliament has been broken and at what point. Please, or I invite you, Mr. President, to begin this session in the Rules of Procedure. There is no provision in this Rules of Procedure where you should be tolerated, because this is not a entertainment site, where you need an MP to let him say whatever he wants and whenever he wants, because then you're making the impression that those MPs who came to do something serious on this day, that they're working on the amendments, and you're silent in this pointless debate about who will and whenever he wants to get up and talk about what he wants today, it's like they don't know or haven't really studied what's on the agenda today. So, being educated, being educated, sticking to the rules of conduct is a disadvantage here, and being tolerated and a positive feature is being rude, laughing at the fact that you're warning someone not to stick to the agenda, so they're reading speeches they were supposed to give two days ago, but they weren't in the O.R., talking again, and we're going back to some general debate, it really doesn't make sense anymore. Tell us who's right here - those who came to say what they forgot to say two days ago or us MPs who came here to talk strictly about amendments, so we can finish the job the way the Rules of Procedure planned? I don't even understand MPs who use their rights... I'll wait for you, Mr. President, to apologize to both your colleagues and your secretaries, but I'll tell you what I've been up to. May I continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3578	Keep going, you got your word all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3579	Thank you. So you can't have any moments or moments of tolerance...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3580	Replication time's up. (Maya Gojkovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. And your time of two minutes has elapsed for the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3581	You haven't been in the O.R., the secretary has misinformed you, there are other things being talked about here. You do not give MPs, or heads of Parliament, the right to speak what they have. You go into the O.R. and then you break up, because someone told you that, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3582	Mrs. Gojkovic, may I speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3583	I would pray that when an MP speaks, you cannot enter the word as chairman, first of all, because you were not in the O.R. That someone who ran the session...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3584	Since I have the right to interrupt your business, let me interrupt you. I have information that you've come forward following the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The time you have for breaching the Rules of Procedure is two minutes, according to the Rules of Procedure. You took advantage of it, and in that sense I interrupted you. Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3585	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, which you have now, as chairman, done.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3586	You're obliged to tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured? MajA GOJKOVIĆ: Thank you for coming now to continue to hold the session. I'd like to inform you that you've injured a member of 105th and a member of 106th in other positions that I didn't call for earlier, and you certainly know what I was calling for earlier. Will you explain to me why I hurt the members of 105 and 106? Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3588	Do you allow me to finish my sentence or will you interrupt me every second? You took 38 seconds away from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3589	Here you go. I'll extend your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3590	So, what I'm saying is that I absolutely agree, for the first time in my life, with Ambassador Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3591	I will tell you, Mrs Gojkovic, that if you explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you are obliged to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So you said I hurt the members of 105 and 106. Rules of Procedure. Explain this injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3592	First, don't yell at the MPs. Call on the Rules of Procedure that you are leading, but I have the right as an MP to demand that the sitting be conducted and directed towards that current and that agenda that we have received and why we have come here, and to prohibit certain MPs from misusing what they are living in the AP Vojvodina and to deceive the public that they are the only representatives of the citizens living in Vojvodina. We are MPs from the AP Vojvodina and, therefore, you must direct the debate towards the course for which we have come. I will report to the Rules of Procedure whenever I consider it appropriate, because it is the right of MPs in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3593	Thank you. The People's MP Gordana Komic came to the floor. On what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3594	I'm using the MP's time group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3595	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3596	Thank you. So we're still in the middle of a session where we're talking about an amendment to Article 4, which basically... (National Ambassador Milan Lapcevic and MP Jovan Palalic, from the post: How can he speak again under the same amendment? I ask you all to consult the Rules of Procedure if we have dilemmas. So the time of the parliamentary group can be used by any MP at any time, as long as there is a time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3597	Mrs. Komic, there's no need to explain the Rules of Procedure. Here, speak on the subject. You got your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3598	I have to because they're distracting me, and you're not stopping them, and they're still saying, "See what it's like." Here, I'm looking. Can I go on now? (President: Yes. Thank you. Therefore, the amendment to Article 4 which speaks in the basic text about the taking over of the whole or part of the assets and the total or part of the liabilities. This amendment is also the subject of the amendment we have been discussing all this time and the questions raised by the finance minister whether or not it was before the law came into the procedure had any interest in taking over banks, or deposits. I'd like the finance minister and his associates to look at the stenogram from yesterday's session, and I quote what the finance minister says about taking over today. He says – yes, there are interested in taking over deposits, but no one is interested in taking over the entire "Development Bank". In this case, he wasn't talking about banks that were potentially interested in taking over the New Agrobank, of course, and I wasn't talking about it. So, this was exchanged as an argument, which means, because it was given in answer to my question, that the finance minister, before the law was made, before it came to the procedure, before it was agreed, had most of the votes, had been in a bank, which he had not told us about, which was a good day, whether you and that good domestic bank, were you interested in taking over deposits from a bank where the Republic of Serbia had 20% or before the law came, before we were informed, before the majority or opposition was consulted, someone from some bank came to the minister and said, I am interested in taking over deposits from the "Vojvodine Development Bank". Everything I asked as a question, not to name the minister who it was, but I asked whether it was legal and legitimate, not prejudged that it was or not and not commenting on whether the minister had good intentions or intended to do harm and whether the one who said it – good day, I am a good bank, I would take over deposits, had good intentions or not. Article 4 speaks of bank takeover. My point is that this amendment submitted by the Finance Committee is not good enough to remove any dilemma...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3599	Mrs. Comic, let's go back to your amendment, and then we'll discuss the amendment of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3600	We are now discussing the amendment of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3601	No, we're still at your amendment, although you've been walking for as long as I've seen, but please return to your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3602	I am now talking about the amendment of the Committee and my amendment and I am using the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3603	Can we go back to the subject, therefore, to talk about your amendment now, and the next item of the agenda is the amendment of the Finance Committee?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3604	It's not the next item of the agenda, it's the 12th amendment in a row, and I'm talking about the amendment, because it's a request for the minister to answer the question of whether they're good intentions and whether it's legal and legitimate for someone to come to him and say it a few weeks ago – I'm a good bank, I'd like healthy deposits from Vojvodina Development Bank. Article 4 speaks of bank takeover and if such behaviour is considered legal and legitimate, then we are about to know whether there has been anyone else from another bank who is interested in deposits from some third and fourth banks in the past weeks and to assess whether the criterion of legal and legitimate behaviour of the minister is always the same. Words that are publicly shared, and so on these statements that you have discussed with someone about the acquisition of the Vojvodine Development Bank deposit, without having discussed the acquisition of the entire bank, because no one is interested, but would be interested if you had the Law on the Assembly to which both Agrobank and New Agrobank are equally related to these provisions of the law, which we consider to violate the rule of law in the Republic and the Development Bank of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3605	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3606	Of course we only talked about the possibility of taking over deposits from troubled state banks. Two of them are in this case. We've already agreed with the Post Office to take over the New Agrobank deposit. As for the Vojvodine Development Bank, we asked the Central Bank for a list of banks that could take over deposits in the best possible way, a list of strong banks in Serbia, regardless of property. We received a list and invited all these banks and asked them a question – would you be interested in taking over on equal terms, or under conditions that you would have to offer in some competition to be better? We received a response from four banks to be ready to take over only 140m euros in secured deposits covered already with securities of value, which were issued earlier and unsecured deposits with an additional 100m euros in worth of paper. Why did we do that? Well, it's my job, it's the Secretary of Finance's job, to prepare an action that can follow the law, not to waste any time. Those banks didn't come "knock, knock" on our door, as you say, we called them. We didn't call them by heart, we asked the NBS to give us a list of potential banks. We didn't do it for all the other banks, we only did it for the Vojvodina Development Bank and New Agrobank, because only those two are indicated to have dubiosis and negative capital. If the NBS came to us tomorrow and told us – there is another state bank where Serbia has a control stake, which has a dubiosis, we would repeat the same procedure on the basis of this law. Therefore, this law cannot apply to banks that have positive capital. That's impossible. What's that for? Why would they do that? This law was made for troubled state banks. Fortunately, at least according to the NBS analysis, there are only two of them now -- "New Agrobank" and "Vojvodine Development Bank". That's why, given that we've already got the interest of the Post Office, he's taking over the New Agrobank deposit, we have to see who would be in the event of a decision to transfer the Vojvodine Development Bank deposit. What bank would that be? I've already explained that the Post Office wouldn't be able to take over the deposits of both banks. We did an economic analysis, the indicators wouldn't allow it. They can safely take over the deposits of only "New Agrobanks" and still have a capital equivalent of 20%. We had to look for a solution in other banks. Since there is no other bank where the state has 100% capital, and it has the power to take over 240m euros in the Vojvodine Development Bank deposit, we asked the Central Bank – please give us a list of who can today in Serbia, from banks to take over 240m euros in deposits from Vojvodina Development Bank in case there is a need for that. Of course we did, we're not hiding it at all. It's part of my job. I was obliged to do that. So thank you again for asking me that question. I repeat once again – yes, we have invited all these banks that the Central Bank has given us to do effectively the work for which we have been paid and for which we have been chosen from this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3607	Thank you. Since there are no more registered speakers, we are moving on to the next amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 4 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. I'd like to ask the finance minister and the economy if he agrees with this amendment, so he can enter the text of the law. Do you accept it?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3608	Yeah. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3609	Thank you. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the law. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Cizik. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3610	Thank you. Our amendment refers to the fact that, in the event of the acquisition of the total or part of the assets and liabilities of the bank for special purposes and the banks under administrative management, the acquirer bank can exclusively be a bank with the majority state capital. Since it also provides for the acquisition of assets and liabilities of banks for special purposes, which are created for the purpose of financing development projects, i.e. certain branches of the economy, which under commercial conditions, or commercial banks cannot obtain sufficient favourable conditions for the loans they need, for this reason in the future if the bank took over would be a private bank, the specific purposes of these funds placed in such projects would be lost. For this reason, our proposal went in the direction that if there is a future fund for development, there are a variety of other institutions that were created just for special purposes, that if they transfer from these banks to another bank, that this is exclusively done to an institution that has a majority state capital. I do not understand why our amendment was rejected, given that in this particular case, Agrobanke is not about the transfer of capital, i.e. an active bank for special purposes, because it was not a bank for special purposes. If a situation is created in the future that it has to be done, I don't see why it would be transferred to a private bank, because it is therefore devising the existence of any bank for special purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3611	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Radovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3612	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have submitted this amendment requesting that the accession procedure be implemented in accordance with the provisions of Article 133. The law on banks. In an explanation that the Government rejected our amendment, it is said - that the amendment is rejected for reasons because Article 6 is Article 2. The draft law provides for a positive opinion by the NBS to be considered by the NBS, which in accordance with Article 133. The law on banks is very demanding. Yeah, but not just that. In order for the NBS to give its consent, it is necessary that the bank to which the other bank is attached submits a number of documents, i.e. decisions. It is necessary to submit an amended founding act, it is necessary to make a decision of the bank to attach, a decision to attach the bank to it. It is necessary to provide an analysis of the economic justification for accession and to provide an analysis to determine that there are no adverse consequences to the financial system. Madam President, please exercise your right to have a serious debate in this House and allow me the right to speak in peace. First MPs of the ruling coalition. We cannot accept that the procedure that clearly exists is not respected but now in the Banks Act, which regulates this case, because of the reason that there is no time for it. In this way, if we dictate the indirect provisions of the National Bank Act, we will inevitably introduce elements of legal uncertainty in the overall accession process. In addition to those three laws whose fact we suspend in Article 3. The draft law, we indirectly and partially suspend the provisions of Article 133. The law on banks. I totally understand what this is about. We can reason whether it's good or bad, but we don't support the procedure provided for in this bill, because that's how the legal system collapses. Simply, through the elements of legal uncertainty, one mess in what is happening today is what exists in positive legislation at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3613	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3614	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as far as we know, the District Executive Council has made a decision, or adopted a budget envisioning 150m euros, or 15 billion to capitalise the Vojvodina Development Bank. That decision, to use Dinkic's comparison that the Development Bank behaves like some drug addict who needs a dose all by a little bit when it gets thick, when he gets into an abstinent crisis. The province's executive council decided to maintain and maintain the Vojvodina Development Bank in this way. We hope this law creates mechanisms, not to treat the consequences, but also to try to deal with the causes of the situation in which banks with majority state capital are located in Serbia. First of all, considering that the funds for the recovery of these banks are the funds of all Serbian citizens. It is not shared on citizens from the province of Vojvodina or from southern Serbia or central Serbia, but on all citizens of Serbia, and that the funds are used to address problems created in certain banks that are politically managed. Specifically regarding the Development Bank, banks run politically by one part of a party or one part of a part of Serbia. Costs are huge. We are talking about 150m euros that will be additionally pumped into this bank, which, according to Minister Dinkic and all those who understand each other, will not contribute to the resolution of this bank and to the footing, against only prolonging the agony. Thus, proposing that Article 4 of this Act provide for a bank accession mechanism and the conditions existing in Article 133. The law on banks, we predict that the ministry, the state, can also act preventively, by some mechanism, that they can launch to prevent further destruction of Serbia's citizens' resources to prolong agony and treat the abstinence crisis of a bank. If we are in the debate in principle saying that the total social benefits in Serbia, that they rise by 100%, 300m euros, the province's implementation is higher with these 150m euros that will pump up spent in a bank that is unsuccessful and that will not succeed afterwards, but will be even more successful, it will spend 50% of the social spending increases for all citizens of Serbia in one year. It will not help to settle the situation in this bank, let alone to settle the situation in any segment, whether in Vojvodina, Serbia or anywhere, and we would have a far better standard of living if we had separated that money by 50%... There are also children's accessories and help for helpless faces, all possible help for faces. Simply, we expect the minister to see the possibilities, to adopt this amendment, which provides a chance to act preventively, to prevent one situation that we can come into, and once again the citizens of Serbia will be those whose pockets will be poured over the money for the recovery of the bank of a failed project, one of the political peaks and adventures of the province's authorities, instead of giving that money to help life in these difficult situations, the worst layers of the population in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3615	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3616	According to the draft law, the Government shall, on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and Positive Opinion of the NBS, adopt an act containing the order of the transmission bank, and shall refer to the Contracting Agency referred to in Articles 4 and 5 of this Act, as well as the necessary elements for the conclusion and execution of the contract, and in particular a list of the assets of the commitments which are subject to the acquisition, as well as the selection, transfer, manner and period within which financial assistance is provided to the acquirer bank, etc. To be fully understood, we absolutely understand the situation created primarily by Agrobank and New Agrobank. We understand the need for state interventionism. We understand the need not to bring instability into the financial system and, in particular, not after those 90s experiences with Jazda, Dafina and those experiences when only maybe $10,000 needed founding capital to start a bank. I have said countless times as an MP in this assembly that reforms in the banking system are the best thing the state has done since October 5th. I wish our reforms in all other segments of our operation were like the reforms in the banking system. However, the bill is, the students of the first year of law would know this, in the beginning of the constitution and illegality, because the law suspends three other laws of the same, and the laws are equal legal forces, and then, by this law, the fact that private property is legally confiscated and nationalised, which is not a question of the Assembly of shareholders or private shareholders, and which we will certainly have international arbitration and costs on this issue. I listened very carefully to the discussions of all the parliamentary groups. There have indeed been very constructive proposals here on how to find a good solution, and everyone is satisfied and we fully degrade all the depositors, i.e. that the depositors are now not withdrawing their deposits from the new bank. We, in fact, have not solved the problem with this bill. We will also load a 300m-euro debt to the Post Office and the question is how the depositors will behave with the knowledge that the Post Office is taking over certain assets, but much more obligations. That is why, with respect to everything the minister said, everything the representatives of the ruling majority said, I was still hoping that they would hear more about the highly constructive proposals of opposition parties' MPs. I think that the general interest has insisted that this amendment and the amendments that have been submitted by our parliamentary groups be accepted. I think that would be good for both banks and financial and legal security. This is how we start with solutions that we know are anti-constitutional and against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3617	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Theodore Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3618	Although it has become a little confusing, I think we are still on the amendment to Article 4, which was submitted by the DSS parliamentary group. I will support such an amendment since I believe that everything should be brought into the legal system, so that the system laws in each area are respected, not by reckless laws that come overnight to violate a complete legal system. What I won't agree with is certainly the explanation given there. I'd also remind my colleague that we need to be consistent. We can't, if we know that we ourselves have submitted an initiative to assess the constitutionality and have led to the fact that the Vojvodina has been stripped of jurisdiction to care for the socially endangered, that we are now asking to reroute these money to a place where unfortunately we can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3619	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3620	Indeed, this is an important amendment, because as I said when it comes to the amendment to Article 3, we want a difficult situation created by the problem of the Agrobank, it still has to be resolved within the existing legal system. We cannot, as was the discussion here, talk about the political and economic reasons for those who have to weigh over the law and the law only blurs. So this is an important amendment and I ask you, Mr. Minister, to understand our good intentions and to understand how important it is to preserve the legal system, no matter what the problems. We had this kind of debate once, when we were respected in the DSS that we were legalists and respected the right, while they said – we should go only faster, destroy everything, because it is a political opportunity, because it is economic problems. But now we see that slowly those who have honored us want to return. As for the discussion that a respected colleague had, it's not about someone taking someone's right, it's about whether it's by the Constitution or not. You decide whether you want to respect the Constitution when it comes to this law, and you will not respect the Constitution when your political interests in Vojvodina are at stake. Don't be in that sense two-faced. Respect the Constitution. We're going to attack the Constitutional Court, say they're anti-civilization, that they have no idea, because the Constitutional Court has ruled that some powers are not constitutional. Then we'll say -- wait, so this Constitutional Court, we have to address it, because the government of the Republic of Serbia allegedly has lifted our rights when it comes to the budget. What's this about? Be consistent. Don't just be someone who will think about your political interests and your party's interests. What you just said was rightly decided by the Constitutional Court. This is not jurisdiction under the Constitution of the Republic of Vojvodina, but if we had thought properly and rationally at this moment, it would certainly not have been the District Executive Council, the Government of Vojvodina or the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina that made such a decision and prevented, among other things, the Government of the Republic of Serbia from spending these 150m euros to help the socially endangered in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which was led by the policy of your government both in Vojvodina and in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3621	Thank you. Members of the 5th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Čizik and joint MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Radovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3622	The amendment member reads in two terms: "Banci can provide the borrower with free financial support for the takeover", and in 2nd, "The granting of financial support to the bank of the acquirer is subject to a free financial support contract concluded between the agency and the takeover bank. "The proposal to delete this member is with the same explanation as a member of the law that is put outside the law, outside the legal force of the laws that I have already quoted. This member also has a problem with the explanation. I know that the argument will not be published in the Official Journal, that it does not produce legal force, but it speaks a lot about the legislator because there are two places where you have the answer that this law requires no financial support, no funding, and secondly, two paragraphs lower requires 250m euros from the Deposit Insurance Agency. In order not to have interpretations and whether or not it is in conflict with the Law on State aid, since I have heard interpretations and such species, I can agree with them or not, but what is the main reason for eradicating this member of the law are criteria that are not available anywhere during these members, which will determine how much this free financial support will be for the takeover and that is the problem of this law as a whole. He wants to present himself as a law of good intentions, but every test of good intentions has a common problem, and we will bear the consequences together.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3623	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3624	With regard to grants, we also think that the amendment would have to be deleted because the termology itself – the grant financial assistance can be interpreted in different ways. They would understand that it can be formulated in the sense that it is either a capitalisation or a loan, but it is not exactly how this financial institution that takes over the assets and liabilities in the bank that is being taken over. I think it would also be extremely important to specify the criteria on which such aid is granted to the bank that does so. Also, I think that if the system in which we live today is capitalism and not socializing itself, the possibility that one of the states should receive grants should not exist since if a state lends those funds to the future, they should return.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3625	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3626	As Mrs Comic said, the essence of this member of the law is in the grant financial aid, and I know that the minister will now say what he is and what it says that without these funds it would not be possible at all to assume the rights and obligations of the banks that are being taken over because they are doing very badly and it is quite clear. This is where I express my political attitude. I ask the question – how long will the state save banks that fail and bad business banks and what message is being sent to the public? We're sending a message that the managers of these banks can do whatever they want, that they can spoil themselves, that they behave arrogantly, and as a consequence of all that, we'll have one bank at a time collapses and attaches itself to another bank, so that in the end they have only one state bank. It turns out from some experience in the past, it's like we haven't learned anything. And today for who knows what time we're talking about the Vojvodina Development Bank, and I have to say that I absolutely support the minister in everything he said about that bank today. It's like we don't know that he's said several times that she's been recapitalised. It's as if we don't know that the state has given huge amounts of funds for its recapitalisation and we don't have any positive gossip from the bank's business. It was similar with Agrobank. I will remind me, it seems to me, correct me if I am wrong, that yesterday a budget rebalance was adopted in the District Parliament and predetermined funds for the capitalisation of the "Vojvodine Development Bank" amounting to 150m euros. We're entering another adventure where there's no end. It also happened with Agrobank, or "New Agrobank". If I'm not mistaken, the state has given 100m euros to form a "New Agrobank" and I remind myself of a healthy activity. It was a public secret. Everyone said that this bank would do well because it only had healthy capital, only healthy assets. In the end, five months since that bank was formed, what do we have as a result of our business? We have a result that she loses 2m euros a month and has 80% of non-refundable loans in her portfolio. Has this state intervention finally come to an end? Why are we putting up with this amendment? We bear it for one reason, to express clearly our political position not to advocate and accept the country's influence in economic flows. If a state bank doesn't work well, there's a law on what's going on with it. So let it fall to ruin, for we will gain a much better effect than to reward such banks. As a consequence of all this, we have a boastful management that can do whatever it wants and be absolutely certain because it knows that his unconscious business will not be held accountable by him alone because that bank will be attached to another bank. I think a very bad message is being sent, and I think it's not in the interest of the finance minister or this government. Please consider the arguments we present here at today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3627	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3628	I support this amendment for the reasons of the arguments given, that they are not specified here in which way the amount necessary for the grants, when given, will be determined, shall be limited to what period. What's my question? There's money here for grants. Why, then, if there's an asset that can be recapitalised by a bank, why wasn't it done in the New Agrobank? We're going back to questions. This is how it is established and a very insecure banking system is obtained. Two years will not know what will happen to the banking system that is in the Republic's domain and possibly the provinces. In two years many banks can open and fall under this law again. It is a long period in which it will not be known and there will be no security in the banking system that has the control influence of the state and the province in this case if the amendment proposed by the Committee is accepted. The funds were there. This is about fresh money, liquid money. What was done in the previous aid for three banks was not liquid money. It was an attempt to help securities and thus preserve the budget in the sense that not all liquid money was spent. It is normal that when you get liquid money, and at the same time – did we check there that there are no political uncles or political decisions in the bank before we give that liquid money? It should be when we pass the law, when we are equal to everyone, that is, to always make sure that we treat everyone equally. So, checking in one bank requires regular checks in other banks. Exporting business data to one bank requires data to be exported to other banks. We're going into the National Bank site and we're looking at which banks are showing a loss. It's not the only two banks. We also know that we are counting the liquidity of banks, we know that we are looking at the percentage of the incompetence, that thirty and some of the banks, as they were brought in in this Serbia, we know that we are dividing and extracting it. And not by the number of banks, but by the way it really counts. So if there is money, if the money we don't know the amount we promise by law, then why is it not immediately after the brief procedure saved the bank that is at stake. That bank in the province, let the province be responsible for the way it solves the problem with the province's Development Bank. After all, I will honor the decision of my congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3629	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3630	The province is allowed to do what it wants in Vojvodina Development Bank, but we suggest that the adverse consequences of these decisions are made by all Serbian citizens, as the state of Serbia guarantees those deposits. I know you know very well how bad the situation is at Vojvodina Development Bank, because you have personal information about it. You personally have had information about this for years, since you know the former regional finance secretary well. So you have all this information. Be responsible. If you do not want to help constructively in the debate, do not ask questions you know the answers to. So, as far as liquid assets are concerned, liquid assets will be used to secure the secured deposits of the New Agrobank, which will be transferred to the Postage Savings Bank. In case the province capitalises the Vojvodina Development Bank, nothing will ever be used as additional funds in an operation related to these two banks again. In this case, the cost at this time will be 250m euros from the Deposit Insurance Agency, which is being transferred as a cover for the transfer of New Agrobank's secured deposits to the Postage Savings Agency. As the province itself capitalises with 150m euros on the Vojvodina Development Bank, in this case the Republic of Serbia has no costs at all in this year, but costs arise in the event of a new failure in the work of the bank, as several recapitalisations have already been carried out, which have been unsuccessful. A hundred and fifty million euros has already been put in, a new 150 million is now being inserted. I am talking about these consequences that will take place in this case, and for which the Republic of Serbia is responsible, as well as that money already invested by the previous government, those 50m euros in bonds, which we must pay from the Republic budget next year to the Vojvodina Development Bank. Please, when the 2013 budget debate is precisely calculated and that part of our contribution to the achievement of Vojvodina's constitutional rights to a certain percentage of the budget. Don't forget to calculate that money. We'd better have given that money for some other stuff. The previous government provided these funds. She will also enter the balance, the 7% that belongs to Vojvodina. Don't accidentally lose sight of it, since I see that there are such tendencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3631	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3632	Thank you. Just one more comment on the grant, or any means that the state should use to save this or any other bank. It is not necessary to lose sight of the fact that they are primarily taxpayers' couples. There has been a major debate over how to tax the financial sector which, whether by majority or minority owner, has achieved enormous profits here for almost a decade, bonuses have been shared, etc. So in any way where the state is going to spend money from the budget, to save any bank, privatisation gets, and socialization loses. I think that in the future, you should think about how banks are taxed, interest revenues, bank profits, because if we're going to spend hundreds of millions of euros from the budget, whether for this particular project or for some others, it would be good to have some items on the receiving side where the funds will be accumulated in the budget for these purposes. In principle, in many countries, a large part of the public was opposed to the state spending taxpayers' money on saving the financial sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3633	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3634	You're absolutely right about this. I just suggest you give this same lecture to your coalition partners who have led to the fact that the state must now spend money on it. If you're asking me, I'm against giving taxpayers money to solve losses due to bad leadership, but when you're brought before the final act for mismanagement. Please give a lecture to both the provincial prime minister and the former finance minister, who are your partners, tell them what you just said in public. You're absolutely right. I'm 100% behind you. That was the reason that ten years ago, when I was governor, I was against the failure of state banks to capitalize on four billion dollars, then I had to give 30% of GDP, the cheaper the option was bankruptcy. What would wait for "New Agrobank" is still the loss of the 250m euros. Why? If we didn't have this law, it must be going down. Those 250m euros should be paid for secured deposits. This way, by transfering deposits, we will certainly use one part of that money more productively, because together with the secured, we will save unsecured deposits and thus allow for 250,000 clients of this bank to safely be new customers of the postal savings bank. Otherwise, all countries that have done such interventions during this period of financial crisis are aware of the fact that this is fiscally irresponsible because the money spent by taxpayers to save some banks, where either private managers or state officials made the wrong decisions. They did this, however, for reasons of preventing major damage, which is panic in the rest of the healthy banking system that arises, as it was created in the case of the "Liman Brothers" in America, when it went bankrupt. Panic was transferred to all other banks, and then America had to capitalize both the City Bank and the AEG insurance company. There are hundreds of billions of taxpayers' money spent to prevent further panic. Fortunately, we have no problem with such proportions. Fortunately, we have a problem with two non-systemic state banks, but the price for Serbia is not low. I said that 600m euros, cumulatively, observed during this period, which the taxpayers ultimately pay to repair this damage. It is a large amount and therefore must be examined for the responsibility of each individual in the system that has led to such losses, which are now covered by all of Serbia's taxpayers.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3635	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3636	Article 6 of the proposed text reads: "The Government, on the basis of the proposal of the Ministry of Finance and Positive Opinion of the NBS, shall adopt an act containing the order of the transferor bank, or the Contracting Agency, referred to in Articles 4 and 5 of this Act, as well as the necessary elements for the conclusion and execution of the contract, and in particular: the list of assets and liabilities which are the subject of the acquisition, the source, the amount, the manner and the time limit in which the financial support of the takeover bank is provided." The positive opinion of the National Bank referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall be deemed to be the consent of the NBS to take over within the meaning of the Bank Act and shall be referred to as "the Official Messenger" where this law is published. The proposal, of course, is to delete this article too. First, what is prescribed by law, which is normally put outside the legal power of other laws, and what is the jurisdiction of the NBS. It's not just in this article, but it would be enough to delete this member. What I have to add as a remark is that the same Article 6 I have submitted an amendment to delete has been accepted by the amendment of the Committee which will become an integral part of the bill. There is one good proverb that says: "Whoever lives in a glass house should not be thrown with stones." So, in an amendment which, instead of accepting my amendment, which reads, is deleted, we accept what is already an integral part of the bill, that is, the introduction of parts of the text, that is, the AP Vojvodina. Either in any place where the Republic of Serbia has indirect and direct participation will be mentioned whether it applies or does not apply, or you will even have procedurally missing members of the law, regardless of what I consider to be a provision as unnecessary to stand by the law. There will be more speeches about it, of course, but I'm asking you to be more careful in our amendment interventions, because it's our joint act in the end, whether we vote in favour or vote against the law. This can't happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3637	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 6 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. I'd like to ask the finance minister and the economy if he accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3639	I have one more question for you, Mr. Minister. Do you accept amendments to Articles 1 and 2 submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending? We've finished this debate, but simply to get into the integral part of the law, do you accept them, too?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3640	Yes, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept these amendments to the Assembly Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3641	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3642	We still have time within the Parliament's time group. I think we made a mistake here. Until this moment, there was an opportunity to interrupt, to take a break and to give the Finance Committee the correction of the amendment. That's what I pointed out, prayed, explained, and pointed to all the contradictions and misunderstandings. I think there was a possibility, especially since by the moment Mr. Minister's statement on Article 1 and Article 6, it did not become an integral part of the bill. We had a statement from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and we had an amendment to the Committee, until a statement by the Government's representatives there was the possibility that it might not be an integral part of the bill's proposal. What's this about? In Article 1, we have a statement, i.e. the banks in which the Republic of Serbia, i.e. an autonomous province, has direct or indirect control participation. Here we mention the Republic of Serbia and only one autonomous province, where we state the name of the autonomous province, leaving out the name of the other autonomous province. There is a possibility, in accordance with the unique methodological rules for the making of regulations, to say – the Republic of Serbia, or an autonomous province, and can be in one but without stating the name of an autonomous province. This way we don't have the southern provinces. The second thing, in article 6, which has just become an integral part of the bill, is said – in which the Republic of Serbia has a control stake. So, there's no mention of the AP Vojvodina here now. There is no consistency of uniform terminology, as provided for in Articles 35 and 35 of the other members of the uniform methodological rules for the making of rules. Please, let us make laws that should at least be legally and technically correct and, on the other hand, in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If there's a possibility, I think it's a minor mistake if you're going to take a break right now and the Finance Committee does make a correction. The moment the debate on amendments is closed, there is no possibility of any further correction, then there remains the possibility only to submit a proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of Article 1, I will not talk about Article 6 as Article 6 does not mention the autonomous province, but in any case Article 1. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3643	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the urgent need for the National Assembly to adopt the draft law from the agenda of the session as soon as possible. At the same time, I'm setting a break to 15.10 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Finance and the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Cizik. The government and the Committee on Finance and the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Gordana Komic and the MPs of the people, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Đorđe Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Čizik, submitted their message. The government and the Committee on Finance and the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3645	Article 7 on which I have submitted an amendment which reads that Article 7 is deleted has three attitudes and reads like this. In the first position it says – the takeover is done without the consent of shareholders, depositors and other creditors, or debtors of the banks participating in the takeover. In the second position, it says - exclusively from the position of the 1st member in the case where the bank is the acquirer of a bank in which the Republic of Serbia has no control participation, the bank assumer concludes the contract under Articles 4 and 5 of this Act, and on the basis of the decision of the Assembly of the Bank in accordance with Article 8(2) of this Act. The acquisition may not be subject to rebuttal by the creditors of the bank participating in the takeover in accordance with the law governing bond relations and the laws governing bankruptcy. Therefore, Article 7 practically discusses repealing the Law on Economic Society and the Law on Banks and, in addition, since it is quite unlikely that most will accept the amendment to delete this member, it adds inconsistency to the already adopted amendments that have become part of the law submitted by the Committee on Finance, and that is what the National Assembly and all MPs have been warned of. So if you make changes in Articles 1, 4 and 6 as they are made then these changes must be in all members who treat the same name, or the Republic of Serbia which does not have a control participation. As things now stand, since these amendments of the Finance Committee have become components of the law to them, no more changes can apply or corrections are made, and you have a problem here that you have described in Article 7 why the Business Society Act does not apply, why the Law on Liaison and the Bank Act does not apply and remains at will or interpretation, which is most often another language of political abuse of members of the law. Either there is no possibility that the AP if it is a majority owner, or if it is a bank where the Republic of Serbia does not have a control stake in any way acting in accordance with Article 7. A very serious thing that is now completely different from when amendments to the draft law have not been submitted to amendments, which are by the will of the legislator on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and by the will of the members of the Committee on Finance and Budget, and for constitutional issues and legislation, are now an integral part of the law. This member of the law should be deleted if we want to uphold rights acquired under the Law on Economic Society and the Law on Banks, especially if it is the shareholders representing the capital of the Republic of Serbia, who represent the interest of the Republic of Serbia so that it has full participation and if it has a control stake. If you can't from the stockholders that you put in the banks to take care of the capital that's state, if you can't make a takeover deal with those shareholders, then what can we do, then what can you do? To defend himself that he is in the path of time and that he must be within a short period of time, he is again in the coalition, in conflict with the justification for the urgency of this law. This law has its argument of urgency only in the week of the savings that occurs and in the fear expressed by the promoter that there may be a withdrawal of these deposits at that time and that we will have a major problem. It can't be a whole year's savings week until December 31st, 2014 and you can't leave the shareholders of banks in which Serbia has a participation or a control stake, so by 31st of December 2014, they will be left without the rights written down by other laws, which is why it is proposed that this member be deleted. PRESIDENT: The word has a People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3646	Thank you. Although the minister is not here, we will continue to explain our proposals. We also asked for this article to be deleted and it is in line with what we have suggested that Article 6 also does not derogate the function of the shareholders' assembly. If the government already wants to propose that the assets and liabilities of certain banks be transferred to another, there is a procedure that is in line with existing laws. There is absolutely no need to derivate other laws, the Business Society Act, and to do these things without voting in the Assembly because tomorrow, from one problem, we will have a much bigger problem when shareholders of these same financial institutions sue the state and try to compensate for what they have invested in that same bank because they have not respected the procedure at the assembly of the same bank. In my view, it was much more logical to say that the state was giving an order to a representative of shareholders in the same assembly to vote in line with the proposal made by the government, so that the legal procedure would be fully respected. This way, I'm afraid, there might be a slightly different interpretation tomorrow. Those who will interpret this and the Business Society and Production Act in court will initiate judicial proceedings that may have a very uncertain end.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3647	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. The government and the Committee on Finance and the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3648	The Honored Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members, I will start with Article 5 of this bill, which says: "the law on deposit insurance, deposit insurance, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies" does not apply to the adoption of this law, which means that the Bank Act remains in force because this article is not suspended. In favour of our argument, and most of all for the sake of the public, I'm just going to brief some of the members and points of the Banks Act. In Article 65. The law on banks is said to be "the bank's parliament is made up of shareholders of the bank". In Article 66 of this Act, it states: "The Bank's Parliament in item 4 decides to increase the bank's capital, i.e. capital investments in another bank or other legal entities as well as the amount of investment in the bank's underlying assets". In point 7, it shall decide on the status changes on the closure of the bank's operation. The same Law on Banks in Article 133(1) states: "The bank to which another bank is attached shall apply to the National Bank for the granting of accession consent" and in paragraph 2. "the bank to which another bank is attached shall be obliged to amend its act by indicating the amount of its total capital in cash and non-financial form after accession" and in paragraph 3. "at the request of the bank to which the second bank is attached to the National Bank is submitted on the decision of the founding act and on the decision of the Bank's Assembly on acceptance of accession," underlining. Articles 7 and 8 of this Bill are hereby suspended by the Bank Act, i.e. the abovementioned members. Therefore, the adoption of the DSS amendment shall be subject to Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The 7th and 8th of this bill returns, i.e. retains the legal fact of the Bank Act, so the takeover would have to be done with the consent of shareholders and with the decision of the Bank Assembly, because these decisions will definitely be sought by the NBS to the bank that accepts the other bank, and that in this case, the Post Office, which accepts the new Serbia, will be delivered by the NBS, we do not know. Mr. Minister, in the principle debate, we have said that we fully understand the weight of the problem we are in, the money is gone and the bank is bankrupt and I have no doubt in your good intentions that you are trying to maintain the stability of the financial system, to preserve deposits and citizens and businesses and local self-government, that it is urgently brought in so that the economy does not come into collapse, but it is obvious that because of this urgency, it is primarily an article. The 7th and 8th amendments are suspended by the Banks Act, i.e. it collapses, that's what many have said, by a legal system that regulates the business of banks and, above all, the interests of other shareholders other than RS, if the shareholder and public enterprises are owned by RS and these other shareholders, not to say whether they are small or large, only that 15 days from the date of notification of the conclusion of the contract take over their actions and offers for sale to banks whose shareholders are on that day. I'm not sure those damaged shareholders are gonna stop at that. I'm afraid he'll go further to court, and then we'll see how much this bill has broken the legal system that regulates bank operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3649	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Teodora Vlahovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3650	I submitted an amendment to Article 7 in a milder form than my colleagues because it seemed to me that such an amendment would not only be relevant but also acceptable, because I proposed by my amendment that, even in the case of a bank that will be taken over, if it is not the majority ownership of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly of Shareholders, namely by respecting the legal system, the Law on Banks and the manner in which one bank belongs to another bank. I have suggested that Article 3 be deleted from this article for the simple reason that, in this way, by breaking into the legal system, the legal remedy is disabled, because it is said to exclude the possibility of refuting as one of the legal remedies. I suggested that this section be deleted because it feels that our system is so designed that in all cases everyone has the right to certain legal remedies to protect their interests. I'd like to since it was a break to say something since I've been trying in a strange way to be discredited. Back in 30 years, I've known every Secretary of the Province for Finance and the current and former, and I know all the finance ministers. I'm not in a family relationship or any personal relationship with any finance secretary, not a single minister in our country or outside our country, because it was a very strange illusion of my knowledge of the finance secretary. It's normal for me to know the former finance secretary because I worked in the circuit institution, so the alumni are unnecessary. President: thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3651	Article 8 of the proposed text reads: "Download is done without decisions by the parliaments of banks participating in the takeover within the meaning of the laws governing banks and laws governing companies. Exceptionally from Article 1 where the bank is the acquirer of a bank in which the Republic of Serbia has no control participation, the takeover shall be made on the basis of the decision of the Assembly and of the Bank on the approval of the conclusion of the contract referred to in Articles 4 and 5 of this Act. Bank shareholders participating in the takeover on the date of conclusion of the takeover agreement other than the Republic of Serbia and other shareholders, legal persons directly or indirectly owned by the Republic of Serbia who ask the banks to participate in the takeover within 15 days of the date of notification of the completion of the takeover contract shall be entitled to purchase their actions from them by virtue of the value provided for by the Commercial Society Act in the event of the right of non-agreed shareholders and if there is any acquisition of their own bank actions without the consent of the NBS. Exceptionally from Article 3 of this Article, the shareholders of the bank of the acquirer in which the Republic of Serbia does not have control participation exercise their rights as incompatible shareholders in accordance with the Business Society Act. "The only thing that can be proposed as an amendment to this article is to delete that member. The development that all legal institutes are placed outside the scope of certain positions in Article 8 in each of these four except as subject to interpretation, except as it does not specify how you will apply the Law on Economic Companies and the Law on Banks continues to place the bank's assembly in an unequal position, i.e. the way in which it is decided in one, second or third case. On behalf of the Government, as well as in the previous member, the National Assembly adopted laws amending Article 1 and Article 6 by consensus of the motionary on behalf of the Government. If the changes that are now part of the law and cannot be corrected are not implemented in members who treat the same matter as the members in which the amendments have been made, you will have an even bigger problem than the basic text of the law. The problem will not be just for us MPs, who have voted against or for, the problem will be with the financial sector and the people to whom such provisions must apply. I said that the other members of this bill look much more like the regulation, and that is a very bad rule written, than they really represent members of the law, and that is why the only possible decision is to delete Article 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3652	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Cizik. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3653	Our amendment here refers to Articles 1 and 2 where it is said - in the event that the Republic of Serbia has a control stake in these banks, that the Assembly does not have to be held and that such decisions are voted in the Assembly. In the case where the state of Serbia does not have control participation, the procedure is respected, and this decision goes to the Assembly. In our opinion, we should not derivate the Assembly and when the state has a control stake, because you have some minority shareholders again and there is no need to make a shortcut that, I repeat, can produce legal problems later in some court proceedings. There is no reason why such a decision would not be voted in the Assembly, even if the Republic of Serbia has a control stake. If we pass such laws, I think that the trust of those who should invest in our financial system in the future will be extremely low and I fear that no one who is otherwise in business will ever want to invest in any bank in Serbia, if it can happen to him that the full assets and passports of banks are transferred to another financial institution, without having the right to declare it as a shareholder in that bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3654	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3655	I don't understand what your concern is. The state owns these banks. I don't understand what this has to do with investing in Serbia's banking system. This is about the ability to transfer only to banks where the state controls shareholders, it has nothing to do with investors in other banks. Absolutely other investors don't care what the state does this way, because it doesn't hit them at all. All the stories that were about some nationalization, so the state can't nationalize itself, it's now state. The state owns 100% of the New Agrobank, and the state owns 100% of the Vojvodina Development Bank. I don't see any reason to worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3656	Thank you. Mr. Stojsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3657	Let me explain. If this law applies exclusively to Agrobank, only to Vojvodina Development Bank, this is not the case. It may not only apply to these two banks, since the title of the law does not say that it refers to only those two. Control participation is a 50% plus one action, if I'm not mistaken. So again, we can get into a situation in the future that the state has a control stake, but that there are some small shareholders in some case, so that if this law applies to other banks that have small shareholders that are not states, it can happen very easily. In that case, it was my comment that maybe this should be corrected.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3658	Thank you. Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3659	There's an explanation for that, too. Small shareholders in troubled state banks have already lost their money when the capital of these banks is negative, they still have nothing. So the capital of small shareholders in a troubled state bank that has negative capital is equal to zero, so they don't lose anything because they've already lost that money.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3660	Thank you. The People's MP, Theodore Vlahovic, submitted to the 8th Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Excuse me. Mrs. Vlahovic, I'll let you, since you called late. Please, on time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3661	You moved on very quickly. So, for a while. Since the intensities are like Article 7, the point is that all congregations where the state does not have majority control over banks, that the possibility of deciding on the takeover, and what remains for me, is the question – if there is no decision of the Assembly, on what basis will these takeover contracts be concluded, who will authorise, what are they and whose powers in this regard? Then who's in charge? It is clear by the National Bank Act - not according to the Bank Act, not all provisions are excluded. They remain in the dilemma of many provisions that have remained in force. How can someone on behalf of a bank that is taken to sign, if there is no decision-making of the Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3662	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3663	I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 which assumes that this article should be deleted. Article 9 - Contracts referred to in Article 9 4 and 5 of this Act, these are the members in which the Deposit Insurance Agency is established, which shall be put out of force to the preceding Article 3, shall be concluded within two days of the date of the adoption of the Government's act referred to in Article 6(1) of this Act, and in the case referred to in Article 8(2) of this Act, within two days of the date of adoption of the decision of the Assembly of the Bank of Takers. I also, while the text of the law was in the basic proposed text, suggested that it be deleted, after the amendments to Article were concluded from the stenogram. 1st and 6th became the constituents of the law, and I ask that we do not fully interpret the procedure so that everything can be proposed and that we re-examine the amendments that have been adopted. There are limits that do not cross when it comes to the rule of law and when it comes to respect for the procedure. Amendments adopted in accordance with Article 1 One and six, what can be concluded from the stenogram, became part of the bill's proposal. These amendments no longer exist. This is the fact that the problem for this Article 9, which I propose to delete, because Article 9 is being called upon by previous members and because of the unwillingness to hear each other, we all now have a much bigger problem than it was at the beginning and in the basic text of the law. The way we went through the procedure, when the amendments become components of the law, they bring me back to my argument of good intentions. Ethics, intent, can't go unchecked, in case good intentions are justified. We now have a situation of very serious procedure, at first sight, but in the application of this law we will see all the very serious facts that this law will not be applied. So, as not all enemies who tell you the truth in the form of their attitudes, I don't mean when I tell you personally, I'm going to tell you in person, like it's not hostile when someone's told the truth, it's just as friendly to make an effort to listen carefully. If remarks, comments or arguments are made from the point of view of wanting us to procedurally comply with the rules and to give up the fact that the law can be broken a little bit, that the procedure may be slightly broken, but we won't do much for the honorable word. Now we have a much bigger problem than we had at first. I'm staying on the motion to delete article nine.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3664	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No)
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3665	Yeah, I stayed in the system, but I'm quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3666	Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3667	I checked in, and I stayed in the system, and you didn't turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3668	You have to do it again, since you're not in the system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3669	Article 10 is a member of which I also submitted an amendment and the content of the amendments is to delete Article 10, and the reasons are next, and only reading views will be clear that there are justifiable reasons that this member does not exist, as there are justified reasons and that such a law does not exist in Serbia's legal system will only produce damage. Both in the basic text and in this amended text, when two members became key, the amendments that became an integral part practically made it impossible to apply the law. Article 10 reads: "A tax on the transfer of absolute rights is not paid to takeover. "According to Article 6(1) of the VAT Act, the acquisition of goods and services is not considered to be the transport of goods and services, the transferor bank pursuant to Article 32(3) of the law mentioned does not have the obligation to make corrections to the deduction of the previous tax. According to Article 21(1) of point 13 of the Property Tax Act, the amount obtained on the basis of the provision of financial support for the acquisition in accordance with this law shall not be paid inheritance and gift tax. Why is it necessary to delete this member? For the same reasons that I have proposed to delete every member whose laws are subject to these laws, these laws define that they are in force and some are defined not to apply. In the case of an act which comes before the Assembly and applies to one bank, as I said several times in the beginning or in two acts, if it refers to two banks, as little as possible to the banks, but not within the framework of a law which should, if there is again an amendment relating to the extension, to the maturity, to be adopted and to become an integral part of the law, you will have that law by 31 December 2014, some of them, and some of them not, so that I remain with the proposal to delete the article 10.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3670	Members of the 11th Amendment in the same text were submitted by the MPs Gordana Komic, together with the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Đorđe Stojšić, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Čizik and together the MPs Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3671	Article 11 has two positions and says, in the first position – the source of financial support to the bank are the assets of the agency. In a second position, the Republic of Serbia will, if necessary, reimburse the agency from the 1st member's position. By what criteria? Who's gonna decide how much money? Article 11. that everything else is in order in this law and that there are no members of the law that puts aside other laws and that there are no net amendments that have become constituents of the law. A member such as this, 11 should not exist in any law concerning financial markets. So, I repeat, the second point is that if the need arises, the Republic of Serbia will make up for the agency's funding from Article 1 of this article. It is about the availability of public finances and having the view that a need can be indicated or not to be indicated without criteria, without reason of need, without who will appreciate the need to show up and how much it is, because this member looks exactly like that in some completely accepted way, of all of us in which the unique methodological rules, these laws in the Assembly must be considered and the proposing himself should not put such expressions in another position of the law, so that I remain at the stand, so that article 11 is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3672	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3673	We treated Article 11 in a similar way, and I will remind you that it is a member who defines that the sources of financial support to the bank are being taken over from the funds of the agencies, and that if the need arises, the Republic of Serbia can make up for the funds to the Agency for the actions referred to in Article 1. So we understand that at a certain point, the need to intervene and prevent further damages due to the collapse of a particular bank, but Minister Dinkic is here, at least as far as this member is concerned, is rather contradictory. He told us that the previous government had pumped 130m euros in New Agrobank in May, which had already had contaminated funds, which could not be fully covered and those funds also went into recovery, and we are now in the story of taking over certain banks where the Republic of Serbia, an estimated asset, which is said to be estimated at around 250m euros, with the fact that we do not have the exact amount of that, which can be calculated. The basic question is, on what basis will these funds be given and for what purposes? If we were to say that the funds were irrevocably given, 130m euros, without the criteria of a few months ago, how do we now treat this in the same way through the law and devalue much more money, and are we going to get back into the situation that these funds are going to fail? What's the kind of control that we can be sure that the pump funds will completely heal this bank, or any one, I mean the ones we're taking over. Indeed, it is inadmissible for us to treat citizens' resources in this way, we need to know exactly on what basis the money will be given. Article 12 says the treatment of these financial resources will be, as in the sense of a law governing state aid control, as well as in the event of the removal of dangers caused by damages in emergency situations. There's a criterion there and you know exactly when you can give it. There are no criteria here. I think there must be a closer-to-work matter in which these funds will be given, for which needs, and it is not possible for Serbian citizens to be imposed every time someone makes scandalous mistakes or pumps up and robs money from certain banks, that there is no mechanism in which that money will be recovered. I think that, in addition to the criminal responsibilities that must follow in this case and the cases that will likely later appear, and in relation to this law, I think that it must be taken into account and how active these banks are, how this money will be treated, as well as the property of those people who directly participated in this financial scandal. There must be a mechanism to confiscate these assets and be subject to return to the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3674	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3675	I'll try to explain again exactly why this financial support is used and why you can't know exactly what amount. Because it is determined on the day of the takeover. We had the latest information that the amount of secured deposits in Nova Agrobanka is 250m euros. Three months ago, it was 287m euros, it keeps falling, precisely because the bank is in trouble and the problem is, we will only know tomorrow what is the intersection, the government will make tomorrow morning at the transfer session, if the National Assembly adopts this law, on the transfer of the deposit of "New Agrobank" to the Postage Savings Bank and on how long it will be on tomorrow, or at the end of today's working day, secured deposits in "New Agrobank", for that amount, the Deposit Insurance Agency will transfer to the Postal Savings Bank cash to cover 100% of the secured deposits. As for unsecured deposits, I've already said they're covered. Generally, for some, do not give God future cases, in the case of troubled state banks, the formula is the following, secured deposits plus unsecured deposits, minus quality assets, is equal to the amount of financial support So, what the state guarantees, up to 50,000 euros plus, if the state thinks it should do, what unsecured deposits are, minus possible if there is a quality asset, and these are billable claims. The difference is the amount of financial support to be given. In the case of "New Agrobank" and in the case of possibly "Vojvodine Development Bank", although we have already seen that this will not be necessary because of the decision of the Regional Assembly, we have planned to now, at the end of October 2012, cover both secured and unsecured deposits, i.e. to transfer both of them to the recipient bank. In the future, since we have now warned, we would only partially intervene and not cover unsecured deposits. We now wanted to do so in this case, so that we would have the same criteria and the same offer to "New Agrobanks" and to "Vojvodine Development Bank", because "Vojvodine Development Bank" does not want to accept, or the Region as a majority shareholder, this way of saving deposits. If they were to get into trouble in a few months or a year, we wouldn't be covering unsecured deposits, but simply transferring secured deposits for which the Republic guarantees. That's consistent with what one of you was saying. The province in that case, if it wanted to save unsecured deposits, would have to be further in debt. I have not warned here in vain that I do not want Serbian citizens to bear the cost of something they are not responsible for. What we guarantee as a Republic, secured deposits, that's what we'll cover. Here, it's an attempt to explain why we don't know the exact number. The cutting point is the end of today’s working day, or day preceding the conclusion of the transfer contract. We'll see exactly what number tomorrow. When the government's session, we're going to announce to the public how much cash we transferred from the Deposit Insurance Agency plus these unsecured deposits, which I was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3676	Thank you. Mr. Milan Lapcevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3677	Here's just one quick question. Earlier in the debate, you mentioned several times that it is not fair and there is no reason for all Serbian citizens to suffer damage because, if a hypothetical situation occurs, the "Vojvodine Development Bank" will fail, too, to suffer damage to cover something that is not the responsibility of the Serbian state. If that happens, don't God, I hope it won't happen again, I return to the story that because of this situation and because of the stubborn policy run by the AP Vojvodina leadership, the mechanism needs to be found that the funds of the Vojvodina budget will guarantee it, not the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. A mechanism can be found through the budget. After all, it was defined by the Constitution that 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget belonged to the AP Vojvodina. Let these funds guarantee the stakes of the AP Vojvodina Development Bank. If they already want to act hazaderically, gamble, then guarantee it with funds intended for the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3678	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3679	I wanted to ask a question about deposit insurance and the Agency, but we got, more or less, an answer. I would also like to refer to the fact that the discussion of the law relating to the financial sector has more or less turned into a discussion of whether Vojvodina should have at all a development bank or not, so I really don't see the reason why colleagues from some other parties are constantly going back to whether Vojvodina should have a development bank and whether the leadership is duchy-wise or not. Also, I think it's very incorrect that the entire Vojvodina Assembly, which made that decision, is to capitalise, call themselves gamblers, drug addicts, etc. I don't think that's supposed to happen for any number of reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3680	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3681	Thank you. Article 11 is a member who is taking money from Serbian citizens. There's no way to claim that's not the case. The reason why we believe that this member must not exist is that the National Assembly is by law giving authority to the Government to not ask us anything by December 31st about whether the need has been shown to give money to the Agency or not. It is a key difference in my view of your solutions and in trying to defend a member like this by claiming that you will do the right thing and that this need will be justified. That is not how the relationship between the congregation and the government works, but the congregation has insight into whether there was a need or not. An additional argument is that it was a mistake that the Assembly had no insight. That mistake, that the congregation had no insight in May of the month, is correcting the proposal that the Assembly still lacks insight by law. This is Article 2, that if the need arises, the Republic of Serbia will compensate the Agency for the funding of the 1st member's position. It's a problem with the whole spirit of the law, that the House of Law disowns its powers. There's no problem in bringing in an act that applies to that and that bank, and then we're all calm and there's going to be control. Best of all, it's good for the government of the Republic of Serbia, it's good for the finance minister. This way, you have no doubt shown this article that you really believe that public finances will be managed better or that they will be managed in the way you intend to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3682	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3683	There is a Deposit Insurance Agency Act, which says that if damage occurs, the state guarantees up to 50,000 euros for savings deposits and that the money is paid out of the deposit insurance agency's funds. He also says that if the Agency doesn't have enough money to pay off all the secured deposits, it provides for some four different sources to cover the trunk. It's nothing but what it says here. So, without being asked in advance, the Assembly for Consensus in such bankruptcy situations, for preventing moral gambling, risk, panic, states, or government has to pay off the spot within 30 days of all secured deposits, no matter what source it uses. All budget sources are used to do that, because it's a case of panic prevention. It has to be done within 30 days. There is a risk that in the event of obstruction in the appointment of meetings of the Assembly, this would not be possible and therefore there is no option in any deposit insurance law throughout the world that, in the case of bankruptcy of the payment of secured deposits, the session of the Assembly should be specifically scheduled, and even if the funds are missing in the Deposit Insurance Agency. That is why the legislation that regulates this predicts that from all budget sources must be intervened, so that citizens know at any moment that up to 50,000 euros can be calm. Anyone who has invested up to 50,000 euros in any bank in Serbia at any time of the day and night should know that the state guarantees it and must compensate for any damage from all funds, including this budget. This law only essentially concludes that there is a possibility that unless there is enough funding in the Deposit Insurance Fund, the state must intervene from some of the sources prescribed by the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, and above all from the budget funds, which, of course, is subsequently submitted to the Serbian Parliament's final account.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3684	Thank you. Mrs. Comic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3685	All this said by the minister is that there is no Article 3, which has not been accepted by any amendment, because Article 3 says, "To be taken over, in accordance with this law, the Deposit Insurance Agency Act and the Deposit Insurance Act are not applicable." Article 11 of the Minister's interpretation implies the application of the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. (Mladjan Dinkic, from the place: I can do both. He can't do both, Minister. (Mladjan Dinkic, from the place: So yes. ) Well, it can't be the ministers of both, that you know when it's not applied, and no one else can know it's not in the law. That's what I've been telling you all along. You put Article 3 outside the legal force of the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. I will once again read – the law on Deposit Insurance Agency, Deposit Insurance Act, does not apply to the takeover under this law. That's what I'm talking about when I tell you, ethics of good intentions isn't enough. I have no doubt at all that most of you who are going to vote are going to have good intentions, but it doesn't say that here. It says here that the Republic of Serbia, if needed, will reimburse the agency. It's an agency that's been put out of effect by Article 3. No, I'm a little under the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. It's a little off-limits. This is Article 3 and Article 4. Is that going to make a problem in the case of the New Agrobank and the contracts you've prepared? It's up to you to share an assessment with us. It is our obligation to read this law as it says and that if we hear the Minister of Finance saying – when it is necessary to apply Article 11, then Article 3 will not apply. He can't do both. They must be in force at the same time as Article 11 and Article 3. That's what we talked about when we said -- give us an act relating to Agrobank, give us an act relating to "Development Bank", give us an act relating to "Employment Bank", give us any acts you want. You will have a very positive attitude and there will be no dilemma. This is how we will have an act by which the Assembly has transferred its powers to the Government, in which there are two members who are in force at the same time and cannot be in force at the same time. In which someone will, if needed, say – the Deposit Insurance Act is now in force, and does not apply Article 3. The problem is, with careful reading, it's quite clear that you'll have to agree with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3686	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3687	In psychology, it is known that when people say something, they often project themselves. You have mentioned the ethics of good intentions so many times in these three days, that it is clear to me and you have convinced me completely. Well done, because that actually applies to you. You design yourself in seeing others. So you think that if you say in the story that you have a good intention, and you don't actually have it, that it applies to another, you're actually designing what you want to say. If you read clearly what you have read three times, you will understand that Article 3 says that not taking over with the Government under this law is not the law on the Deposit Insurance Agency, just for taking over. In other words, this member does not fully exclude the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency and the Deposit Insurance Act, but only its provisions relating to the takeover. We've explained this multiple times, due to the rapid procedure, due to the necessary emergency test reaction. In other words, all other provisions of the Deposit Insurance Act shall be transferred including the obligation of the State to pay off secured deposits. So much for your ethics of good intentions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3688	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3689	I know it seems like a long time when I'm talking, but I was talking about good intentions for the first time today. Obviously, it hit. Three days is three days, and one day is one day. The question is, what I love when someone knows exactly what they understand, what I don't understand and what kind of psychological traits I have. I like that because it's fun in the text. A very serious matter the finance minister shared with us here. He said this law does not exclude the Deposit Insurance Act. Article 3, in general, adds – does not rule out the whole. Article 3 The law reads – no law on the Deposit Insurance Agency, Official Messenger of the RS No 61/05, 116/08 and 91/10 are applicable to the acquisition under this law. I haven't read this label in quoting members in an attempt not to bother and not to talk to everyone for too long. When it's written like this in a member of the law, it's the whole law. I repeat, I have no problem with your good intentions. I have a problem if you want to present your ethics of good intentions as facts, in article 3, which passed the debate, the entire Deposit Insurance Act in the Agency is being put out of effect. In a debate in amendments to Article 11, the finance minister says – not all the law is excluded. He can't do both. Or it shuts down, then it can't stand Article 3 as the debate went through. Or it shall not be excluded, and then it shall be indicated which members shall be applied. Any attempt at communication, which wishes to disqualify and degrade the interviewee, succeeds if the interviewer allows you to do so. I'm glad you think I'm your problem. I'm glad the finance minister is in the picture, that the way I look at things is the problem. I would be glad if that were true, because Serbia would have fewer problems. The problem is, in Article 3, you have out of force to put the whole bill together, in Article 11, you're going to give some money under that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3690	Mrs. Comic, I'm taking half a minute from your parliamentary group, so you know since you've overstepped your time. The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic. The basis for reporting is as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3691	I tried not to answer my word by counting on the ethics of good intentions, which is finally being talked about here, so she motivated me. Yeah, I'll say something about that, too. We seem to have forgotten why this law is being passed and why we're sitting here yesterday. We've run out of 600 million money in Serbia, over 150,000 people don't know what they're going to do on Monday, and we're stuck here all day with a monologue about some ethics of good intentions. I even heard it in the morning and all sorts of terms, and we're lucky they found some kind of tiny mistake. You're not happy that 600 million's gone, so there's 100 people out there who can't find that money. I can't understand that we don't have that many morals and that we're at least a little bit restrained about things that are very important today. We should go to the people with a solution on Monday. The government is asked for a solution. This government didn't make a mistake. There's talk about it -- why nothing was done about Agrobank. Two years, no control has entered Agrobank. It's clear information, and everyone knows it well, that the previous president of the executive board of banks wrote and gave people in the government what to do. It has to do with how. A man probably shouldn't have done that. Someone else ran the bank. Today we're talking about the ethics of good intentions. So, state money, the taxpayers' money of this Serbia, are being placed in position, not improving the lives of already saving part of the economy, and we are talking about philosophical terms of good intentions ethics. As if this government, this parliamentary majority has no good intentions. Our shame for what's been going on here these days. We are ashamed of what happened to this Serbia, that we were not in a position to prevent this. At least let us vote this out and let the citizens of Monday give the government tomorrow, and we will be calm from Monday. It's nothing funny, Mrs. Comic. You've been very cynical all day. You're trying to change the subject, to forget that this isn't about 600m euros that are gone. You're talking about the ethics of good intentions. There's no ethics of good intentions here. There's a need for you to deludedly inherit this moment where we are. That doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3692	Thank you. Mrs. Comic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3693	Thank you. Replica, since the chairman didn't react. I thank my colleague Dragan Tomic for allowing me the right to reply, for the simple reason that no one prevents you from voting for the law in the proposed text or with the amendments submitted. What is the obligation of any MP who has a personal responsibility is to warn all of us that this law will be passed with contradictory members, that it has become an integral part of the law of the amendments in which the words "Autonomous province of Vojvodina" have been written, which has been left out by amendment to Article 6 and no longer been mentioned through members of the law through what has now become an integral part of the law. I understand your passion and desire for what's proposed to look better than it is, and I'd like it to look better than it is, but it doesn't. Article 11 that was under investigation, the finance minister says – it does not exclude the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. Article 3 of this same law that we are discussing puts the whole law out of effect by citing the "Official Messenger" in which it came out after the changes and additions. All political passion, impatience, strong words, cannot change it, cannot change the fact that Article 11 states that the need to apply the law that has been excluded from the legal system to the previous member of the law can be indicated.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3694	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3695	Since you are very persistent in quoting some falses, I repeat again, it is clear from Article 3 that the law, part of the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, which refers to the acquisition, is excluded by this law, but not by other members of the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. That's one thing. The second thing is clear to me that you were sent here to defend something that is indefensible, because your party is directly responsible for the collapse of both these banks and for the damages of 600m euros that Serbian citizens are to pay. If we talk, as you say, about the ethics of good intentions, is it a good intention to put your political option in debt to the Republic of Serbia for 150m euros in the previous period to resuscitate the political dubiosis of the people who led the "Vojvodine Development Bank" and 100m euros for the New Agrobank dubios? Is the policy of good intentions and do you protect such people, who after all that because of the political campaign did not talk about the "Vojvodine Development Bank" dare pay half a million euros to the consultant house of Nikezic CES Mekon, whose son was the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, and the father of the prime minister in charge of the stability of the financial system? Last month's last war of half a million euros was paid. Couldn't these Serbian bankers, who work at the AP Vojvodina, find some other consulting house if they wanted to build a programme of bank recovery? Did half a million have to give CES Mekon, despite the fact that this same Nikezic was the president of the state in Agrobank, at the moment she lost 300m euros, which is what CES Mekon has a board member at the Business Bank of Belgrade, and you defend it? It's a shame. Don't defend people who are from your political options just because they're from your political options. Tell the criminal he's a criminal, for whoever destroyed these banks is a destroyer, and you defend those people who are honest with you. You're making a selection, separate the grain from the weeds. Don't talk to me about the politics of good intentions. What good intentions are there to keep your mouth shut before the election of all this, those who led it, surely not? You're not a banker and you're here to talk, you say you've been replacing CES all day, talking left-right, up and down, and you don't really know much about this case, and you're not responsible for this case, you're not directly. It is your political party directly responsible, because in both of these cases she has deeply involved her fingers. You are referring to an AP Vojvodina's right to make an independent decision on the availability of money to citizens of all Serbia only to cover up crime in how all of Serbia's money was spent in the "Vojvodine Development Bank" because it is easier to cover it up if it is covered by new capitalisations. How much longer? In the previous two years, 150m euros, another 150m euros over the next two years. Was it normal and was it the ethics of the good intentions that you've been always talking about for three days before the elections, instead of solving the problem with Agrobank and with Vojvodina Development Bank, to keep it quiet? You don't think Paytic knew about this dubiosis? Don't you think the people of your party didn't know that, perhaps not you, and there was no shame in them that in one dubious bank, where they give citizens a 6% interest per year to attract them to put money in it, your party takes over three million euros directly for an election campaign? You made that public. This is a shame what you've done. I told you two days ago, you'd be wiser to keep this quiet than to talk about some ethics of good intentions. You are not personally responsible, Mrs. Comic, but the responsibility for this must be evicted to the end. In the case of Agrobank, there were many errors in the private sector and errors of the state, errors in the Central Bank. Here, this is exclusively the political error of your party, because all of the orderly executives are appointed by order of you who are in power in the AP. Don't talk about the rights of the Duke. Talk about usurping these rights on behalf of your party, but don't do any damage to a state measured in hundreds of millions of euros. That's irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3696	Thank you. Mrs. Comic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3697	I thank the Minister of Finance for the unsolicited advice on what I should do or shouldn't do. I also consider personal decency in conduct, silence of the MPs, but man is style. In his speech, everyone talks about himself the most. It is nice to try and have techniques and skills and knowledge and strong words, with a passionate attitude, try to shift the subject from what is a very simple question – which members of the Deposit Insurance Agency Act are not valid and which are valid? The Act on the Deposit Insurance Agency shall not apply to the takeover under this law. Any attempt to cover up any other topic that an integral part of this law has become an amendment adding "AP Vojvodina" that is left out in article 6, and the need is the same, and that we have an 11th member who will give funding when the need arises. Every kind of story I've ever worked for, a lot of work, and about who's capable and what's going on, but then when you pass the law on it. It is my duty here to read the law, to know the laws that are related to the law and comment on what I think will be the greatest benefit to the Republic of Serbia. There's no reason to eat so much. The National Assembly has this session in order to consider and search bill proposals. I don't believe that anyone, government or opposition, would feel that no one should use their right to speak or argue with what they think.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3698	You're out of time. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3699	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3700	I'm sorry. I thought it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Before you, MP Srdjan Mikovic signed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3701	I think each of the MPs has this book and in that set of regulations... (President: Mr. Mikovic, I would like to ask you to return to the topic and discuss the agenda point. You don't have to hold it now, and I'm asking you about the amendment to talk. I'll talk about the subject and the amendment. That's exactly why I'm talking about that amendment, but I have to give an introduction. In that book, in the end, there are unique methodological rules for making rules where you look at art. 12, 13 and 14 there is defined what the regulation should contain, in the final part of the regulation, should have transitional and final provisions. It is precisely there that information should be given about the regulations that are put out of force, the entry into force of the new regulation and the date on which the new regulation enters into force. I think it's clear to everyone now why I have called on unique methodological rules, because if the uniform methodological rules in proposing this law were applied, we would not first come to the situation that Article 3. The bill defines these things at the beginning, and we don't have it at the very end of the bill. This brings us to contradictions regarding Article 11, and now I come to the amendment, regarding Article 11, whether something is valid or not. Among other things, I'm a member of 3. The bill speaks of taking over in accordance with this law. I am now reading the title – Proposal for a law on the takeover of property and the obligations of certain banks. So this law that we have as a proposal before us concerns the taking over of property and the obligations of certain banks. The full text of the draft law from Articles 1 to 17. We say on this takeover – there is no application of the Deposit Insurance Agency Act and Deposit Insurance Act, and in Article 11, we have an invitation to do so. In that sense, I absolutely support Mrs. Komic's discussion, that these are some things that we need to clarify. Given that I have also tried to point out that in the current course of the discussion, and not only here but also during the work on committees, I have been trying to point out certain misunderstandings and discrepancies of the bill itself with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that in my performance in the work of the National Assembly, I have tried to reach such a solution that these obvious ambiguities and mistakes that will lead to the law itself not being in accordance with the Constitution today, to be resolved in walking. That's not settled. Certain amendments have become an integral part of the text of the bill. I don't know how to get out of trouble right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3702	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. You're giving up. ) The word is Predrag Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3703	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In the event of a time breach, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. I don't doubt the good intentions of all the amendments. Those must be good intentions. But we can't talk about anyone's good intentions here, we're talking about the law. By law, we solve a problem that has arisen by disrespecting the law. We have already found in previous discussions that the Assembly here is in a specific position, that no one should be the attorney of a bank, because here we decide as representatives of ownership, in fact, because we are the highest level and we have to take care of obligations towards citizens and depositors, because a whole series of mechanisms, which are laws that do not know political parties at all, but know state authorities, they have failed to protect the depositors in the previous period because they represented themselves as a state. For this reason, today as the only representatives of the state, we have to settle this by law and for this reason it is very important that we all insist, and we did this two days ago and today, that, because of this exception, firstly, time limits the application of this law, secondly, to limit itself to those banks where the state has majority ownership. The Committee has proposed such amendments. I must remind myself that since the laws do not know the parties, they do not know the ruling majority, but however, whoever was the MP in the previous meeting must feel the kind of responsibility neither guilty nor obliged, because it is, in fact, this collective body that, under the Constitution of Article 97, it is precisely for all these matters to be competent to establish laws, to control, to carry out surveillance so that illegal actions do not occur. We are now in a situation where we are about to correct through law-abiding law, and it is necessary that the proposer has also proposed a suspension of certain laws because they were insufficient and that is why a case like this has arisen. I pray that we all have at least this basic kind of honesty and that we realize that we have to act responsibly, because each individual is like 250 parts of whatever assembly, whatever business she hasn't done, any one that she has to do now because for the first time she has data, we have personal responsibility. That is why this amendment cannot certainly be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3704	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3705	I thank the chairman. My application by amendment is also a kind of appeal. The appeal is that, through the interpretation of the amendment, there is no abuse at the same time, or at least at the border of abuse of the further course of debate, in the sense of adopting everything that is subject to and the point of the agenda, which is precisely this law. It cannot be questioned by formalism and by imposing formalism what is the goal and what is the meaning of this law. The objective of the law is defined and very clear. The law is a limited amount of time. Given the indisputable fact that the moment when the transferor's bank is transferred to the creditor's bank, what is passed by law, and that's the takeover that we've been talking about here all along, the law has then fulfilled its purpose, its goal and stopped with its legal regime. So, with his legal fact, he has nothing left to seek in the existence of legal life. Therefore, all that is being pointed out today is absolutely unnecessary, absolutely unnecessary in terms of interpreting what the facts or terms of the takeover are. It's absolutely not true that the Deposit Insurance Agency Act is suspended. It is not suspended, but remains in force, remains in legal life and does not apply only to one part of this law. In order not to confuse the citizens with facts that do not exist, I think that I should finally cut the discussion and appeal to all the further participants in the discussion that we are no longer treating the citizens, that we finally cut the discussion by amendment, that we understand that this law is exclusively out of necessity. If it hadn't been for scandalous decisions about setting up the New Agrobank, if it hadn't been for scandalous decisions concerning Agrobank itself, we wouldn't have been in a position to make this and this law. At the same time, this congregation certainly will not allow such luxury to enable precedents to do things that cannot be done, which is to suspend laws. We have not suspended any laws, nor the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, nor the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation Act. For Serbian citizens, they remain in force, and not only apply to a concrete situation, and that is one part of the law under consideration today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3706	On the 12th amendment in the same text, the MPs Gordana Komic, the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Đorđe Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Čizik, together with the MPs Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević, submitted. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3707	Thank you. Article 12 on which I proposed an amendment is deleted and has only one position, which reads: "the financial support provided under this law has the treatment of state aid in order to remove the risk of damage to emergency situations, in the sense of the law governing the control of state aid. "The State aid law is in a certain way part of the legal course, and other than saying in the article that financial support, under this law, has the treatment of state aid, means, you say in the law that it is not allowed state aid, we will only consider it allowed state aid, and by the criteria that such a type of financial support in the State Aid Act does not exist. When I talk about a member of the law like this, he can't stand, except he's out of power and let's read Article 3 again. Article 3 clearly states - laws are not applicable to the takeover under this law. Do not or let us leave in the laws the will of the legislator to interpret how the law will apply or not. It's possible that some of us like it now, but it's just not good because it's going to come across one, which is possible, that we're not going to like the same team. I'm staying with the proposal to delete article 12.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3708	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3709	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, we have heard, already in Article 12 of this bill, this financial support has been treated with state aid. Just because there's this kind of treatment, as far as state aid is concerned, the DSS, on several occasions in the previous period, talked about problems in "Agrobanks," because we assumed something like this would happen. He shouldn't have been too smart. Simply, the data we could get on sites and National Banks and some other institutions clearly pointed to which direction this ship was sailing. Mr. Dinkic, you said the system failed. I agree, the system wasn't good, but I'm sure individuals within that system have created that problem. Are these individuals the previous finance minister, is that the previous governor of the National Bank, are they members of this or that political party? That has to be determined. We can't say that the system wasn't good, that's what happened to bridge this problem and forget all this. That's inadmissible. I am sure that you from your position, and be confident and that we in the National Assembly will demand that the harshest penalties be blamed for, above all, the costs that Serbian citizens have for all of this. Our authorised representative gave the best formulation of this law in principle and that it represents one bomb in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. It's precisely because parts of individual laws have been suspended. No one has told the whole of the law, but very important provisions that are set aside for this law to be passed. The role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been suspended. What is our control in this whole process? It's all transferred to the government. All right, you're ready to take that responsibility, but make sure we follow up on what you're doing. We suggested that this problem be solved through "lex specialis". We heard the argument because of the short time and deadlines needed to organise it all, but it still doesn't delay the biggest problem of this law, which is that the state still has the opportunity to invest and invest funds in individual banks. What's also a big problem is that the law that you're solving the Agrobank problem guarantees unsecured deposits. Who are these people, Mr. Dinkich? Who are the businessmen? Who should this law protect for this amount of unsecured deposits? I remind you that a deposit insurance law has been passed on a proposal from the DSS. If Mr. Cvetkovic, the president of the government at the time, laughed, that we were declared panickers, I don't know what kind of people here, why we're proposing the Deposit Insurance Act to increase that amount to 50,000, it was even bigger than we suggested. Thanks to this law, we can say that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have savings stakes in banks, are guaranteed the 50,000 euros guaranteed by the state. Businesses close to the previous government spent hundreds of millions of euros thanks to these operations they conducted. It was clear that these funds could have been exploited in a much smarter way, if nothing else had gone to some investment, on some virtual projects dealt with by the previous government. You could have improved the social status of every citizen of this country, those people who need to survive at the moment. Apparently, someone estimated that it was better to play, because of a pre-election campaign, with a few hundred million euros, that they would mostly be in power, that they would iron all of this out when they took up Germany again. Why was this principle not resolved by the bankruptcy of economic operators? How many economic operators have failed? You say the day before yesterday that 500 people lost their jobs, but 300 jobs were preserved. What about the 300,000 jobs of those people who lost their jobs in the previous period? Why isn't some economic operator this way helped? Why does the state only intervene in situations like this? Why is it a Post Office savings business, when we all know the Post Office isn't a classic bank? Because of that 97% of the country's participation. Of course, that's quite clear, but I'm afraid the Post Office will be in trouble very soon. I had a chance to read a stenogram from yesterday's session and you really did bring out a lot of interesting things yesterday. There's such data that we who didn't know all these details, it's normal since we weren't able to get to them, which are terrifying. What have some people taken on themselves? How bold, brave, brazen, and why did they do all this? New Agrobank was founded when capital of 135m euros was used when it was formed in May. I hope, Mr. Dinkic, that Mr. Vukic, Mr. Dacic, the people in charge of this will allow those people who are guilty to get at least 135 years of loneliness in the next period, because it has proved to be not a cursed aviary, but people, individuals. We want individual responsibility for each of them, no protections. So you formed a government, you wanted to rule, you said you had good intentions, you said you knew how to solve this problem, I expect you to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3710	Thank you. Just to let you know that you, as head of the parliamentary group, have two minutes and 35 seconds left, and you have three minutes and 20 seconds left from the parliamentary group. The word has a folk emissary, Theodore Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3711	Today, the minister is accusing the previous ministers. After him, a new minister will come and charge him. What's important and why I'm reporting under this amendment, I don't need more time for this law, is that something important has been put here in this article, which is the Institute of State Aid. So we need to preserve the institute and the institutions. When we save the institutes and institutions, then we'll work a lot easier and we'll have a lot less individual problems. It is not necessary to exclude the law from the system, i.e. immediately to determine what state aid is allowed, because of the many exceptions, the State control will ultimately only come to the attention of the exceptions. She won't be a rule anymore. That's why it's not good to rule out other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3712	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3713	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, we are in fact solving not only the issue of Agrobanks and the Vojvodine Development Bank, but we are trying to tell what happened in this "Agrobank", and even the "Vojvodine Development Bank", and one of Serbia's biggest robberies so far, both in Agrobanka, and in the "Vojvodine Development Bank". Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to talk about this specifically because I already spoke about it at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's meeting in the election of the governor of the NBS. But, gentlemen, MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we need to find out, first of all, what role in this unprecedented robbery or, quote, an unprecedented scandal in Serbia's recent history, has been completed by Mr. Dinkic since yesterday, was former Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, who today was supposed to be a national MP and is not here? Since he is a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia... (President: Mr. Atlagic, please, we are very tired to return to the topic to finish. Thank you. I'm sorry, this is the main topic and the law is being passed. Secondly, what is the role in one of the biggest scandals in Serbia's recent history, as the minister said, were the MPs he has, sitting here in the National Assembly, as well as other political structures, which means former ministers in the former government of the Republic of Serbia? Third, what role in this big robbery was former NBS Governor, Mr. Dejan Soskovic and his associates? (President: Mr Atlagic, I must respect the Rules of Procedure and ask the Members of Parliament to respect the Rules of Procedure. So back to the subject, please. The subject is an amendment to Article 12. It's a bill of law. ) Who's talking about... (President: We will not return to the governor, but return to the amendment to Article 12. Thank you. ) Thank you, but you all support this robbery, which doesn't allow us here to say who's guilty. Gentlemen of the DS, I call upon you to condemn and you to join us here today to hear at least one sentence. Here, say that sentence. So if you give me your word, I will continue. If not, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3714	Thank you. Let's move on. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3715	Article 13 on the side of the MPs asking me not to speak. You know, if we have in the National Assembly a request from MPs not to speak, we have a much bigger problem than a bill that has conflicting members in it. If we have in the National Assembly those of us who think – let's vote so that we go, we have a much bigger problem than we are in Article 13 that I propose to delete, and in the second position that is said – if in the bank the acquirer, in which the Republic of Serbia has a control stake in the period set out in Article 1 of this article, the financial situation worsens, i.e. the risk liquidity occurs, the Government takes the necessary measures to overcome these problems on a proposal from that bank. Why do you need this position in a law that allows you to treat all banks with direct or indirect participation of the Republic of Serbia with this law? What do you need the second position of Article 13 that you're putting in charge of a bank that remains in state property the right to speak to you under the law? We can't both, you can't and we can't have a bill that should just be an act on one bank and we have an act on one bank that would be a bill. This is the problem we are going through with, note, the serious problem that has arisen today when the components of the law have become amendments to Article 1 and Article 6. It's not just a procedural question. So I'm staying on the proposal to delete Article 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3716	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, I will remind you of the provision of Article 107(1). The Rules of Procedure – the speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, both the speaker and the other People's Messengers. Please, I can't hear very well here, I guess because of this acoustics here, so at least let me follow the session, at least be collegiate. Thank you. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3717	Article 14 essentially defines in a completely legally thoughtless way what the Serbian Parliament should do. In its first position, Article 14 states – the acquirer's bank shall inform the depositor through public information funds, as well as the creditors and debtors of the transmission bank, which it has taken over through the takeover contract, of the takeover carried out immediately after the conclusion of the takeover contract. Therefore, an explanation of what this first position of Article 14 means – that if, with components, i.e. amendments that have become an integral part of Articles 1 and 6, this law will enter into force, as envisaged, the bank will notify on television depositors, creditors, creditors, creditors to whom it challenges the law on bond relations, and debtors of a bank that may not be able to provide funds, that the bank has been taken over. Immediately after the conclusion of the takeover agreement that participates in the takeover, other than the takeover bank, over which the Republic of Serbia has no control participation, they shall inform their shareholders of the conclusion of the takeover agreement and their right to request the purchase of their shares in accordance with Article 8(3) of this Act and the deadline for shareholders, with the mention of the disagreement of actions, is too short for anything to happen. This member should be left out of this law and allow the rights of debtors and shareholders to remain in force under the laws which are in force, regardless of whether you are a bank that is being taken over or a bank that is taking over, as well as the rights of creditors, the rights of debtors and the rights of shareholders, and hopefully not, will most likely produce judicial proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3718	Thank you. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Popovic and Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3719	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is my last announcement under this law and I would take advantage of the opportunity to, in addition to this amendment, as a representative under this law, say a few more words about the other amendments and circle simply this topic for today. Unlike some colleagues, I come from all of us in this congregation and this home coming with good intentions to do something useful for the state, good for the state, to sort out or solve a problem. We at the DSS have simply experienced this law, as a way to solve one of the problems, although we have suggested that a much better solution was either or that according to the existing Law on Banks, the accession to the Post Office of Agrobank was made or that the "lex specialis" that would apply only to "New Agrobank" and its fact would end there. The government and the ruling majority in the Assembly have decided to go with one such bill, which we believe has a lot of faults, and to that end we have submitted nine amendments, none of which, unfortunately, have been accepted. It is simply one of the reasons why we cannot support this bill, but we expect this bill to address the issue of "New Agrobank" and "Agrobank". We have warned of the issue of Agrobanks much earlier and during the debate on budget rebalancing, and we simply expect that individuals who have failed under the system will be the ones who will respond and that this will be the last situation in which the state will, through its interventions, cover the millions of debts created by individuals where citizens will bear responsibility for those individuals who have failed under the system. So we expect these individuals to be located and that they, in accordance with the law, bear their share of responsibility for this situation where Agrobank was found and the time we have devoted here and the citizens of that Agrobank. That they are responsible for the hundreds of people who will lose their jobs after joining the Agrobanka Post Office who will lose their jobs precisely because of their irresponsible and responsive to their obligations and the work they have done both within the state and within the NBS, the ministries as well as representatives of the state in the bodies of Agrobanka itself and New Agrobanka. Also, we are against excessive national internationalism and excessive couples that will be given to solve all other problems in the future. We think it's much better to give that money into social contributions. Just to mention one more thing, to make it clear to all of us, that all social contributions in Serbia take 300 million to be increased 100% according to the current budget. So the funds we approve of Agrobank are more than enough for Serbian citizens to make life significantly easier for hundreds of Serbian citizens. We will thus facilitate the life of a few who have taken advantage of Agrobank and otherwise make life easier for hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens living on welfare. We all here as representatives of the citizens who, with good intentions and responsibility, come to this room must keep that in mind. The government and all those who are representatives of the state in any body of the banks, in the NBS, must know that they are taken from the citizens' pockets without being taken from any imaginary pocket, but taken from the citizens' pockets. I expect Minister Dinkic to take care of how and how state money is spent through the next discussions that will be held at this session, at the next session about various state guarantees and givings. Of course, we want you to succeed in this operation related to Agrobank, not to save individuals, but so that all citizens who have deposits and businesses and local self-government that have deposits in New Agrobanks can be carefree and safe, so that they can get to their resources that they've tortured and that's one of the reasons why this operation makes sense. We don't support the law for all those reasons, because first of all, no amendment has been adopted and secondly what we think is too rigid, that it is not transparent and that there is no public in implementing this law. It is our proposal that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be notified immediately after the end of this transaction, that there is an obligation in the law that the Government is obliged and the NBS to inform the competent board of the Serbian Finance Assembly of the transaction procedure. I see no reason why this amendment is not accepted and why there is no transparency in one procedure that is so shortened, rigid, without public presence, without the participation of the NBS, to completely exclude the National Assembly itself in this process. In the end, the National Assembly can't even get information about how the problem in this case is solved by "New Agrobank" and probably tomorrow "Vojvodine Development Bank". So I see no reason why this amendment should not be accepted especially because, through the debate, Minister Dinkic has received a series of promises for state reports in public enterprises and in all other banks. So I think this amendment can't hurt, it can use all of us to get to know ourselves in the process of taking over banks under this law that is rigid, which puts four other laws out of force. It is simply this way that can enable us all to be controlled by the MPs and the Assembly to control the government itself in carrying out such a procedure. On behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, as I said, I want you to succeed in this operation and to persist in the fight against crime and corruption, not to end up on this, and we cannot support this law because not one of our amendments has been adopted, because we do not think that there is too much country to intervene in this area with too much money and that this money can be used far better for social giving and for the care of the most vulnerable categories of the population in Serbia, and not that we are easily spending millions of euros to cover the debts of those who are lauding and stretching around Belgrade and other cities, and that the most endangered categories of the population cannot end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3720	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go. Just to let you know that you have three minutes left from the time of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3721	I must say, I have no problem in supporting Mr. Nenad Popovic and Dejan Mihajlov's amendment because I consider it a useful amendment. To the extent that such a law is passed, banks participating in the takeover immediately after the conclusion of the contract shall be notified by the competent committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in charge of finance. I'm a little sad that no obligation has been made by the finance ministry to inform or the Government of the Republic of Serbia to notify the National Assembly and the Finance Committee of such a single transaction. But in the extreme line, as long as such obligations have not already been taken, and competences have been transferred, or it has been proposed to transfer responsibilities regarding taking over to the Ministry and the Government, then at least those other entities should be obliged to notify the Finance Committee about it. In that sense, I personally support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3722	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 15 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. We ask the Minister if he accepts this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3724	I find that the amendment becomes an integral part of the law. The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3725	My two minutes to explain this amendment would have been possible if it hadn't been for the Government's representative to accept the Committee's amendment. So the admen that I am on a member, which I have submitted, he no longer exists at this time, and this time must take you away from me from the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3726	The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Dejan Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3727	Thank you. Article 16 of its position reads: "The means of security from the agreement on the issue of a bank guarantee, i.e. other contracts, on which the bank is a transferor, has issued some means of security for the benefit of the Development Fund, to the Development Fund". The security funds referred to in Article 1(1) shall serve as means of security of the request of the Fund for Development under the contract with the beneficiaries of the loan of that fund, instead of bank guarantees, or other means of security under Article 1, which cease to be transferred within the meaning of this Article. Why do I suggest that this member should be deleted? Because you're introducing a procedure for what security funds are, which are on one basis, therefore a bank guarantee contract in favour of the Development Fund to move on to the Development Fund. If this member remains, and apparently he will, we'll have a problem that I was talking about when there was a debate in principle. So all you know about the amount of money available to the Deposit Insurance Agency and about the raising process is more like the idea of just painting, that there's no need to raise deposits, when money is nowhere to be paid or paid. First of all, I wish that the questions we asked had been answered, which didn't happen, and I wish that the application of this law would not endanger the financial markets or our legal system more than it obviously would have been. When we stated several times that we had an additional problem from today, by adopting amendments to Article 1 and to Article 6 which became components of the law. This is not said to show that even a worse bill can be made than it was at the first moment, but because such treatment requires the use of the legal institutes that we have left, which is a request to the President of the Republic not to sign an order to declare this law, because in his first article, and by accepting an amendment that is not in accordance with the Constitution, he has caused a problem. Whenever you are not careful enough, or whenever you are thought that anyone who has to tell you – wait, let's take a look at the other side, there are bad intentions. This is always done if you think that ethics is intent and words "all will be fine, honest word, don't worry", can ever replace the ethics of responsibility, facts and context in which these facts are divided, first with the MPs, and then because of those why we are all here, or with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3728	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3729	I just want to tell you that you don't have to worry, because here today according to the stock exchange's biggest traffic reports today on the stock market was done with "Postal Savings" actions, it was the biggest demand for them, which means that those who work professionally on the stock market have confidence in both this law and the government's decision to transfer deposits from the collapse of Agrobanka to one of the strongest state banks in Serbia, at the Postage Savings Bank. So they recorded the biggest traffic today by actions just "Postal Savings", a reflection of the market's confidence in what the government has proposed. We can discuss here in one or other political way, when you turn on the stock exchange report and when you see those who invest their money on the stock market, they have invested in "Postal Savings" actions, because "Postal Savings" will be covered by liquid assets, 250m euros in cash, and the rest in high liquid state records and billable bills. So this is kind of the best way that, however, something that has happened in the past and gone, let's try to fix it by getting a chance to be one of the strongest banks in Serbia tomorrow. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3730	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3731	Thank you. I am pleased that the minister has good news that has nothing to do with this law, but I am left with an answer to the question – how does 1.23% with 80% of the loan's default lower the overall default rate? Since the finance minister claimed it was a terribly simple account, and I'm inclined to believe that someone knows what a simple account is, and since that argument was also for the Post Office, and we've been denied that answer for unknown reasons. I think it would be good for everyone to show that simple bill in terms of the strongest bank to be "Postal Savings" after today's stock market traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3732	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3733	Please, precisely because of the responsibility of all MPs, and highly esteeming what the board members have said, I ask that the committees, since a whole series of amendments will obviously be accepted or will become an integral part of the law, please, after the vote on details, meet committees and check that there is no problem, it is my personal request. Thank you very much, because that proves we're all responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3734	Thank you, Mr. Markovic, we know the rules of procedure of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Gordana Komic, an injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3735	Article 27 of the Presidency obliges you to share information with all of us regarding the application of the Rules of Procedure which sometimes lacks information about the procedure for a wide variety of reasons, as regards the adoption of the final text of the law. The amendment that, during the debate in particular, the government's authorised proponent accepted and became an integral part of the law by the chairman's statement, cannot be subject to any change. As far as editorial change is concerned, it can't be done by committees, it can be done together by the Government and the National Assembly, just before the publication in the "Official Messenger" of the RS, so I don't doubt that you know it, and this is really the most well-intentioned, to remind all the MPs, that we are coming to the final text of the law that we are all going to read in "The Official Messenger", when it is published.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3736	Thank you. Mrs. People's MP said he was a injured member of the 27th.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3737	People's MPs earn, I'd suggest we listen to each other and then they'd hear it, and the stenogram stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3738	Of course, the law will be passed in accordance with the Law and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I will take care of it. Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 17 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3739	I don't have a problem with this... (President: You have half a minute left, Mr. Mikovic. That's enough. Please, until I have the opportunity to speak, not to count on me, to hear from you anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3740	I didn't understand you?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3741	They're distracting me as I speak, so I'm just asking for the silence that I can use these 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3742	I ask the honourable Members of the people to allow Mr. Mikovic to speak. Here you go, Mr. Mikovic. We're starting to count your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3743	It is not a problem what article 17 says in the disposition itself, but the problem is what has been delivered to us as an explanation with the proposed amendment to Article 17. Namely, it is only about banks in which the Republic of Serbia has a control stake, not to mention either, and, or, or the AP Vojvodina, there is no mention of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, not even of the AP written in a small letter, and in that sense, I believe that this part does not clearly follow what we have throughout the course of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3744	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Finance if he accepts the amendment submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3745	Yeah, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-26-0.u3746	Thank you. I find this amendment to become an integral part of the law. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed its discussion of the session's single agenda, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine on 26 October 2012 starting at 17.35 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. We move to the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Download of Property and Obligation of Certain Banks in order to preserve the stability of the Financial System of the Republic of Serbia, since the National Assembly has conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the takeover of property and the obligations of certain banks in order to preserve the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 14 abstentions – no, three of the 147 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Since the National Assembly has accepted the draft law in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on Article. 1, 2, 4, 6, 15 and 17, which was accepted by the proposing representative in the course of the search in particular, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that these amendments are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendments were submitted jointly by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Cizik. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against and withheld, 143 of the 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: four, against one, abstentions -- none, 143 of the 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: four, against and withheld -- none, 144 of the 148 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Cizik. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: four, against and withheld -- none, 144 of the 148 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against and abstention – there is no, 144 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: four, against and withheld -- none, 145 of the 149 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Gordana Komic, joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Čizik and joint MPs Jovan Palalić and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against and abstention – there is no, 135 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Chizik together submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 3a. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against and abstention – there is no, 144 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: six, against and abstentions - none, 143 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Cizik. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: six, against and abstentions - none, 143 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Radovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against and abstentions - there is no, 133 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 5th Amendment were submitted by MP Gordana Komic, joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Čizik and joint MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Radovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against and withheld – there is no vote, 134 of the total 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Cizik. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total attendance of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Gordana Komic and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Cizik. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total attendance of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 132 of the total attendance of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Teodora Vlahovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total attendance of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total attendance of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 134 of the total attendance of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Cizik. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Theodore Vlahovic, submitted to the 8th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 out of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 11th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Gordana Komic, MPs of the people Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Cizik, and joint MPs Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 133 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 12th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Gordana Komic, MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Bojan Kostreš and Karolj Cizik, together with MPs Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 133 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 143 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted the 14th amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – one abstention – there is no, 136 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – two, abstentions – there is no, 142 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 136 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear People's MPs, I have been informed that, due to the fact that several amendments to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have become an integral part of the bill, the situation in Article 165 has arisen. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. the need for the amendments adopted to be brought into line with the text of the bill. I therefore set a break of 10 minutes, and ask that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds meet in order to bring the adopted amendments to each other and the text of the draft law, and report on the resulting disagreement to the National Assembly, with the amendment which removes this disagreement.
