ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8807	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 119 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum in the voting day exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 135 are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs Momo Colakovic and Konstantin Arsenovic. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. We're going to the 1st item of the agenda - the bill of amendments and additions to the criminal code. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I am putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, v – 10 abstentions – no, 12 of the 158 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, before moving to the amendment decision, I remind you:- that Parliamentarian Olgica Batić, written by way of the amendment to Article 7 which was submitted at 15.10 hours at 12.10; - that an integral part of the bill became amendments submitted by the MPs: together Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovač, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Pek to Article 16, Joseph Shandor to Article 16, in the same text together by Aleksandra Jerkov, Bojan Kostreš, Karolj Čizik, Olena Papuga and Đorđe Stojšić and together Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Pek to Article 18, together Jožef Šandor, Ana Novković, Rajko Stevanovic, Nenadžinović and 18. I find that, following the acceptance by the proposing representatives at the National Assembly session, an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments submitted by MP Neđe Jovanovic to Article 4 and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to Articles 13 and 45. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – seven against – 156 out of the 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 143 out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljuban Panic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 165 out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljuban Panic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 152 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was filed by MP Vesna Jovicki. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 162 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MPs together Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalić, together Gordana Comić, Slobodan Homen and Srdjan Milivojevic and MP Ljuban Panic. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the National Assembly. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 163 against – no one with abstention – one voted seven, of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the National Assembly. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, no one, with abstentions, voted 13 out of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 163, out of the 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 163, out of the 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Olga Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 170, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that for - four, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 169 out of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Judita Popovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 173, out of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 163, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted together by MPs Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic, together Vesna Marjanovic and Ljuban Panic and MP Judita Popovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, no one, with abstentions, voted 139 out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic and Vesna Kovac. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 164, out of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Slobodan Homen and Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions – voted 151 out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you, because of the intervention the MPs had, that he was a member of 13. The board became an integral part of the law, so that's why they don't vote for the amendment. The 14th Amendment was submitted by MPs together Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic and MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, no one, with abstentions, voted 145, out of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic and Vesna Kovac. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 157 out of the 173 MPs, for – 16, against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanović Plavsic, Jelena Travar Miljevic and Vesna Kovac. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 170 of the 173 MPs for – 3, against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 15 of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Judita Popovic submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 174 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 8, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 166 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 173 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Ljuban Panic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 162 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 3, no one, with abstentions, voted 172 of the 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was submitted by MPs together Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic and MP Ljuban Panic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 165 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Slobodan Homen and Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, no one, with abstentions, voted 152 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanović Plassic and Vesna Kovac. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 162 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 158 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 32. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 25 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 33rd Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 172 out of the 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Milic, Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Natasa Micic submitted together to the 35th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 172 out of the 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanović Plassic and Vladimir Ilic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – no one with abstention – has voted 164 of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted – 172 out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 146 out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljuban Panic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 155, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted – 172 out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the amendment 42nd. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 165, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – 15 abstentions – there is no, no vote – 21, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the CRIME PROCEDURE Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – 20 abstentions – there is no, no vote – 23, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on the amendment, I remind you that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is in accordance with Article 163. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected an amendment that added a new Article 2a, which was submitted by MP Olgica Batic, after Article 2. I also remind you that, according to Article 163(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 163 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 163 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 163 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 4 of I also remind you that MP Srdjan Mikovic, in writing, withdrew the amendments to the article. 1st and 2nd. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on the amendment. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted – 175, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the motion to vote on the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137 against – 21, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – 19, of a total of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON COMPLETE OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY LAW before we move to a decision on the draft law in general, pursuant to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you that the bill provides for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of its publication, which requires the National Assembly to specifically decide whether there are particularly valid reasons. Article 2 The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – one, the abstention – there is no, no vote – 41, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Since we have come to an agreement on the early entry into force of the law, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the Public Prosecution Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, v – eight, abstentions – there is no, no vote – 31, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON COMPLETE OF THE JUDGE LAW before we move to a decision on the draft law in general, pursuant to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you that the bill provides for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of its publication, which requires the National Assembly to specifically decide whether there are particularly valid reasons. Article 2 The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – one, abstention – there is no, no vote – 37, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Since we have come to an agreement on the early entry into force of the law, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on the addition of the Judges' Law, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, against – seven abstentions – there is no, no vote – 32, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Law on Judges. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Encouragement of the Civil Industry of the Republic of Serbia in the Conditions of Economic Crisis Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia in the context of the economic crisis, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – eight, abstentions – there is no vote, 18 of the total 174 MPs did not vote. It finds that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the title above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 174 out of the 174 MPs. He finds that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic, Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 out of the 172 MPs. He finds that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Bozanic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 out of the 172 MPs. He finds that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 172 out of the 172 MPs. He finds that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you it's Article 2. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 35 of the 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, v – eight abstentions – there is no vote, 11 of the 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE USE OF THE GERMAN Development BANK KFW, FRANKFURT ON THE TERMS OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY OF SERBIA, BELGRAD (PROGRAMME "PRODUCED TECHNOLOGY OF EXPLOATATION IN THE RB COLLUBARY TO THE PURPOSE OF TERMOELECTRANS AND DESCRIPTION OF ENTERPRISEMENT OF THE ENTERPRISEMENT OF THE ENTERPRISEMENT OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE COUR 4) Since the National Assembly has conducted a search for the bill and before the transition to the decision remind you that, according to Article 105. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on public borrowing. I also remind you that since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Germany's KfW Development Bank, Frankfurt in May, following the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivreda Srbija", Belgrade (Project "Improvement of Exploitation Technology in RB Kolubara in order to increase the efficiency of thermal power plants and reduce environmental impacts"), in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – eight, abstentions – there is no vote, there is no vote of 34 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Bill on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KfW, Frankfurt in May, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred Serbia", Belgrade (Project "Improvement of Explosion Technology in RB Kolubara in order to increase the efficiency of thermal power plants and reduce environmental impacts"). We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON FISHING AND LUKES IN THE INSIDES After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 22 abstentions – there are no, 18 of the 170 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Djelic and Branka Karavidic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, with abstentions, voted 143 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bozidar Djelic and Branka Karavidic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, no one, with abstentions, voted 143 out of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 159 of the 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bozidar Djelic and Branka Karavidic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Djelic and Branka Karavidic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 152 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 4th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one to vote—166 out of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 150 of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Djelic and Branka Karavidic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 152 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 148 of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 141 out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 147 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 21st amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 146 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 146 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 31st amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 142 of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted – 168 out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 37th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—166 out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bozidar Djelic and Branka Karavidic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 154 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 41st amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 164 of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, v – 33, abstentions – there is no, no vote – 11 of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. We are moving to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE PURPOSE OF THE YEAR'S PLAN ON THE USE OF SERVES AND OTHER STRENGTHS OF DEFENCE IN MULTINATION OPERATION IN 2012. Years. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in the multinational operations in 2012. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – 10 abstentions – there is no, they did not vote – three of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2012. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE PARTICIPATION OF A SERVANT IN MULTINATIONAL OPERATIONS IN 2012. Years. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2012. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – 11, the abstentions – there is no, they did not vote – four out of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2012. Since we are now moving to a decision on proposals for the law on the confirmation of international agreements (points 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20 of the agenda), I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the founding of the Serbian-Russian Nationality Centre. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment of a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – four abstentions – there is no vote, not 26 of the 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We are moving to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Partnership Agreement in the area of defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Greece. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Greece, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, against – no one, with abstentions, voted five out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on Saradism in the area of defence. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on co-operation in the area of defence, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted five, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on Saradness in the area of defence. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on co-operation in the area of defence, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted five, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Angola on Saradication in the Area of Defence. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Angola on co-operation in the area of defence, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote six of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 15th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the Protection of Secret Data. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the mutual protection of classified information, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 against – there is no one, with abstention – who has not voted four, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Sarad and mutual assistance in the Customs Issues. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 10, of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 17th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Georgia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income tax and property tax. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Georgia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 21, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 18th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income tax and property tax. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 18, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 19th item of the agenda – Proposal for a CONSERVATION LAW between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income tax and property tax. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, no one, with abstentions, voted 17 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 20th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Accords between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the sailing routes on internal waters and their technical maintenance. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the navigation of waterways on internal waters and their technical maintenance, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 163 against – no one, with abstentions, voted nine out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 21st point of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE DEFINITIONS OF THE DETERMINATION OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTRUCTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search, and before we move to decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – 24, the abstentions – there is no, there is no vote of five, of a total of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has accepted the motion for a decision, in principle. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic has tabled an amendment to the Head of a motion for a decision. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, no vote of 27, of a total of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the proposal for a decision in general. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142 against – 16, the abstentions – there is no, no vote is 13, of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 22nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and the deputy members of the Committee of the People's Community of the Republic of Serbia since the National Assembly carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting on the vote of the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SPS parliamentary group. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, against – no one, with abstentions, voted six MPs out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SPS parliamentary group, by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 23rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments of Planning and Construction Laws Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Planning and Construction, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – 32, abstentions – there was no vote by 12 MPs from a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. National MP Djordje Milicevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for—25, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 146 MPs out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, the four abstentions were not voted by 43 MPs from a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Planning and Construction, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 34, the abstentioned – there is no vote, eight MPs did not vote from a total of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Planning and Construction, in general. We move to the 24th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON DECLARATION OF THE DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS AND ADDITION OF THE FINANCIAL PLAN OF THE REPUBLICAL FUND FOR THE PAYMENT FOR 2012. THE year since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2012 Decision on the amendments and additions of the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – 11, the abstentioned – there was no vote of 33 MPs from 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the 2012 Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that an infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a request, be declared on the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, at a session on 15 December 2012, at 20 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to an injury. 27th and 109th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – three abstentions – there was no vote of 147 MPs from 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, at a session on 17 December 2012, at 12 hours and 23 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 MPs out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 17 December 2012, at 12 hours and 44 minutes, pointed to an injury. 106th and 116th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted with 158 MPs from a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Bojan Djuric, at a session on 17 December 2012, at 12 hours and 47 minutes, pointed to an injury. 27 and 116. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 MPs out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Janko Radakovic, at a session on 17 December 2012, at 13 hours and 13 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, no one, with abstentions, voted 154 MPs out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Janko Radaković, at a session on 17 December 2012, at 13 hours and 16 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 111. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, no one, with abstentions, voted 152 MPs out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, at a session on 17 December 2012, at 17 hours and 31 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, no one, with abstentions, voted 150 MPs out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, at a session on 17 December 2012, at 17 hours and 57 minutes, pointed to the violation of members 107, 108 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 MPs of a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 17 December 2012, at 12 hours and 44 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 106 and 116. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 MPs out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Bojan Djuric, at a session on 20 December 2012, at 12 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 27 and 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 163 MPs out of a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Bojan Djuric, at a session on 20 December 2012, at 17 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a 27-member injury. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – six, against – no one with abstention – 157 MPs voted against a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly conclude the ninth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. I'd like to remind you that the next session will begin in 20 minutes at 12.00 hours. Thank you. (session ended at 11.45 p.m.)
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8808	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The 10th session of the Second Regular Session (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 24 December 2012 (The session began at 12.25 hours). The session is chaired by Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the tenth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 119 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, when determining the agenda, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 133 MPs are present in the hall, that is, most of the total number of MPs and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colakovic and Konstantin Arsenovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I shall inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, exceptionally, for Monday, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for laws and other acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, the proposal to supplement the proposed agenda and the proposal to merge the debate. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina proposed that the draft law on the Vojvodine Development Fund, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2012, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 versus – one, with abstention – no, 22 of the 174 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 15 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 13 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the unauthorized influences of the representatives of large-scale capital on the work of state authorities and cases of trade in influences, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 20 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, against – one abstention – there is no, 148 of the 173 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 December 2012, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – no one, with abstention – voted 41 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Deutsche Bank AG London under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbias" Novi Sad is being put on the agenda for the implementation of the South Stream Project, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 22 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 37 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Credit Suisse Bank London, Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad, Unicredit Bank Serbia a.d., Belgrade and Deutsche Bank AG London, under the responsibility of Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, which submitted to the National Assembly on 22 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 38 of the 174 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank of Belgrade and the AIK Bank a.d. Nis under the responsibility of Galenika a.d. Belgrade, which submitted to the National Assembly on 22 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – no one, with abstention – voted 41 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, according to an emergency procedure, the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banca Intes a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Air Traffic Action Society "JAT Airways" a.d. Belgrade, which submitted to the National Assembly on 22 December 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, v – two, abstentions – no, 40 of the 175 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Chambers of Commerce, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 November 2012, as well as to adopt those draft laws by an urgent procedure. Does the promoter, MP Srdjan Mikovic, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8810	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as long as there is a theoretical possibility and a chance to prevent irreparable damage to Serbia, I'm trying to convince you why the law on amending the Law on Chambers of Commerce needs to be found on the agenda. Namely, the latest law amending and supplementing the Law on Chambers has taken over certain deadlines by the state, which is that the rules adopted under the powers laid down in that law will be passed by 31 December 2010. We are now approaching December 31st, 2012. We're two years late. The law was passed in 2009, it was time to do so by the end of 2010. After that, no sublegal acts have been passed over the next two years. Sub-legislative acts on the basis of which the register of chambers, which is run by the Agency for Economic Registers, has not been adopted. That's absolutely inadmissible right now. I ask the question – when we reach January 1st, January 1st or 2nd, when any businessman, for example, from Dimitrovgrad, Doljevac, Žitoraj, wants to get a certificate of credit, which he could have obtained so far in the Nis Chamber of Commerce or, for example, from the surroundings of Užica, Arile, who could have reached Užica and received a certificate of bonity, after January 1st, if things were standing like this, will not be able to obtain a certificate of bonity? In addition, the question arises how will the APR Chamber of Commerce register work unless a sublegal act has been adopted in how will it be registered? That is why I call on you to put this item on the agenda, and it opens up the possibility for every MP to submit an amendment and that the practically ruling majority determines until when to postpone the application of the laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Chambers of Commerce. Whether it will be a month, three months, three years, five years, as long as it takes, but don't make it into a situation on January 1st or 2nd to cause irreparable damage to Serbia's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8811	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. I would like to note that the proposal to adopt the draft law following the urgent procedure of the National Assembly was already declared on 15 December 2012, at the beginning of the ninth session of the Second Regular Session in 2012 and rejected the proposal. Therefore, I would like to put a motion on the table to supplement the agenda of this session, without a proposal for an emergency procedure. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 59, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 120, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Obradović, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on Cooperation in the field of Energy, Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Deutsche Bank AG London, a.d. Novi Sad, "Uni Credit Bank Serbia" a.d., Belgrade and "Deutsche Bank AG London" under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad, Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Commercial Bank". Does MP Marija Obradovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 21, the abstentions – there is no, there is no vote 29, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and the motion to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote the draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, no one, with abstentions, voted 45 out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the tenth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2012, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law on public procurement, 2. Proposal for a Law on the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina Development Fund, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on co-operation in the field of energy, 5. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Deutsche Bank AG London, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad for the realisation of the South Stream project, 6. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Credit Suisse Bank of London, Vojvodjanska Banka Novi Sad, UniCredit Bank of Serbia, Belgrade and Deutsche Banka AG London, under the authority of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, 7. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the " Commercial Bank" of Belgrade and AIK Banka a.d. Nis, under the responsibility of "Galenika" a.d. Belgrade, 8. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Banca Intesa, Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Air Traffic Action Society "JAT Airways" a.d. Belgrade, 9. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. The word is by MP Srdjan Mikovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8812	It's about art. 27 and 167. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. With my letter of 22 December, immediately after receiving information that this session, the tenth session, was scheduled, I proposed to supplement the proposed agenda of the 10th session and to include in the agenda the examination of the draft law amending the Chamber of Commerce Act. I suggested that this law be passed by emergency procedure. Whether the National Assembly was at one point stating whether it was then to accept an emergency procedure, the fact is that I was originally the Bill's proposal, after I submitted in time, on November 21st, when I suggested that it be normally done in a regular procedure, rather than an emergency procedure, which I always advocated to do in a regular procedure. However, when we arrived by the end of December, I was forced, as the session was scheduled within a short period of time than it allows for regular procedures, I was forced to seek urgent action. As I asked for an emergency procedure at the time, so I asked for the current session, which I was informed of on December 22nd and 22nd, I made a proposal to supplement the agenda and to consider it by emergency procedure. Today is the 24th and regardless of whether or not the Assembly was making a statement about urgency, what was not urgent a week ago, is now urgent because we have seven days left until the end of the calendar year. For this reason, I believe that the information held by the chairman is where we did not declare our urgency and emergency proposal, perhaps one number of MPs convinced them not to press the key for, in order to define the agenda point. I believe that this point is urgent and necessary to complete the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8813	I believe that the above-mentioned Rules of Procedure have not been injured. According to the interpretation of the professional service I received, it is impossible to declare the same procedure twice in parallel. Since the National Assembly, given all that you have stated, decided that this proposal should not be put on the agenda in an emergency procedure at the beginning of the ninth session of the National Assembly, we felt that it was impossible for the National Assembly to declare the urgency at the beginning of the tenth session. Certainly, it was possible for the National Assembly to declare whether to put this bill on the agenda and today would have been on the agenda if most MPs had supported it. If you think I'm wrong, you have the right to harm the Rules of Procedure. Just tell me do you want the People's Assembly in voting day to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? I didn't give you my word, just say yes or no.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8814	I do not insist that the National Assembly declare this. You can do whatever you want, but you still have most of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8815	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is John Palalic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8816	Mr. President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I believe that Article 27 and Article 157(2) have been injured. In fact, as a proposal for a joint principle search, we have received a series of points that we believe do not comply with the provisions of Article 157(2), which say that the National Assembly can decide to carry out a joint principle search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, which are conditional on each other or are mutually linked solutions. Indeed, we do not see any similarity between the draft Law on the Development Fund of the Republic of Serbia, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act, the Proposal for a Law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Bank of Inthesis. Since we have now introduced one practice that the proposals coming from the AP Vojvodina are being put on the agenda, given that it is a very important law, the draft law on the AP Vojvodina Development Fund, we believe that it was necessary for this point to be specifically discussed and that there really is no link and touch point with the proposals of the energy law or other draft laws relating to guarantees. I don't think that debate will be able to bring quality. There will probably be a Minister of Energy, Mr. Pastor, who knows who else from the Ministry of Finance and we'll be able to do anything, but we won't be able to discuss these laws very well. In that sense, we believe that this provision has been violated, that there was no possibility of these points being combined. I would just like to point out that for these very reasons why we point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, our parliamentary group will, for the sake of quality debate in the National Assembly, ask that, when this is on the agenda, the time for which the debate is being held is double, because we think it is quite unacceptable and not enough to discuss such important laws, especially the draft law on the AP Vojvodina Development Fund only five hours with five, six other points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8817	I don't think he's hurt that member. The MP who proposed the merger of the points held that, for the agenda points for which the National Assembly had already decided in its vote and accepted the merger, there is a basis for these points to be considered in the common procedure and in the single debate, and I believe that those members of the Rules of Procedure are not injured. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC BUDGET You have received a bill submitted by a group of 138 MPs. You have received the Government's opinion on the draft law, as well as the reports of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, on which you received details in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I am opening a principled search on the draft law. I ask if the proposing representative, MP Veroljub Arsic, wants a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of the Second Regular Session in 2012, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discusses and decides on the Law on Public Procurement. I can say that this is the law that the SNS parliamentary group issued last February, that it was one of the promises the SNS made in the pre-election campaign to the citizens, so, on the basis of all that, in late August, in early September, we did a draft law on public procurement. There was a thought about whether the existing law would fix or do a whole new legal proposal. One of our opinions is that because of the different functioning of regulatory bodies that are to be conducted and supervised by the procurement process, it is better to write a new law than to go to changes and complement the existing law. Following the establishment of the Draft, the SNS organised a broad public debate on the Public Procurement Bill, which could include all those who wanted to, whether their activity was related to the procedure and the implementation of public procurement, to those who were involved in this as scientific works or had some experience in some other countries that could also propose a working group in this public debate, which established the proposal for a decision of the Public Procurement Act. I can also say that there has been co-operation with the European Commission, i.e. that the largest part of the EU Directives that regulate the procurement process has been implemented in the draft law, so that we can say that this bill, to a large extent, is much more than the current law, has recommendations and EU directives. What we can say is that one of the most important things in this law, that all the bad experiences we have with the current law, we tried to eliminate the new law completely. We are fully aware that when the law enters into application, it may show some weaknesses, so that we are ready to accept responsibility for these weaknesses in the next period, to remove, because it has proved in practice so far that even though you have the best intentions, even though you gather around you people who think are the best in this profession, it happens that when the law enters into application, it shows certain shortcomings and weaknesses. We are also prepared to consider carefully, in the process of passing laws, all of your amendments, which your fellow Members have proposed, and if they are truly justified and improving the quality of the law, we accept as legislators. Otherwise, the work of the task force itself and why we adopt the law right at the end of the Second Regular Session in 2012 is precisely because of the work of the task force on the making of the law, because we literally have tried to determine whether it is justified and if it is, that we put it in the best possible way in the proposal for a law on public procurement. This law must first define and regulate what all public procurement is and how. I can say that the procedure so far has been partial, or not complete. What is this paper that this bill covers? In Serbia, according to the record, which we are in doubt, spends about two billion and 700m euros annually on public procurement, which is about 9% of GDP. It's very important to say what isn't covered by this 2.7 billion and what we include in this law in public procurement. So far we have had experience that due to poor control one part of the budget spending is not treated at all through public procurement, so other than that the Public Procurement Act was not respected, and of course, if the law is not respected, we also have those elements that can be corrupt in nature or I can even say criminal nature. When it comes to procurement financed from foreign loans, we have often witnessed here in the Serbian Parliament that we have provided certain guarantees on foreign loans, which should have been spent. Often, foreign contractors, i.e. the lender, asked to be exempt from the award process under the loan, to be excluded from the public procurement system. That was their condition. In return, we may have had more favourable conditions in obtaining credit, but in any case, those funds were returning from budget revenues, or most often from public revenues, and already if we couldn't control the process, at least we could record the spending of such funds. Next, there's the so-called. confidential procurement, and most often from the field of defence and security, where this law regulates what really confidential procurement is, and what are the purchases that, regardless of who is conducting them, whether the Ministry of Defence, whether the Ministry of Defence, or the Ministry, must be conducted as public procurement in that procedure as provided for by this law. So far we've had a situation, and there's been a lot of abuse, that, besides weapons and military equipment, the subject of public procurement can even be toilet paper and banana cream. This was treated as confidential procurement, i.e. no procedure was conducted in accordance with the law. We also have a situation that the state has created market monopolies over the past few years, so they were literally the only ones who could provide a certain service. So there were even no other bidders, so they went into one special procedure and with such a special procedure, not only was there not a control of the means of spending and what the process was, but their monopoly position on the market was getting bigger and bigger and stronger and stronger. It is estimated that the value of what is not recorded, and what will be included in the new law, is 50% higher than recorded public procurement, and that the total share of such public procurement in GDP is estimated by some experts from 12% to 15%, and we believe that this share would be higher if the public procurement included everything that was now stated. One of the most important elements of this law on public procurement certainly must be that the law reduces all those corrupt elements to the least possible extent, i.e. completely, if possible, exclude them. In this proposal, the law on public procurement pays the most attention to these very anti-corruption moments, through certain proposed legal solutions, which is that all communication between employees working on public procurement operations must take place through e-mail, as well as between employees and bidders. The manager shall be obliged to give the employees in public procurement operations, all orders and instructions by written means or by e-mail. This is necessary in order to remain clear traces of any corrupt actions. The Anti-Corruption Agency is obliged to draw up a plan to fight corruption in public procurement in co-operation with the Public Procurement Administration. The big ones are obliged to bring in a special integrity plan for public procurement. The contracting authorities are obliged to adopt an act closer to regulating the public procurement process within themselves, and in particular the way in which public procurement is planned, criteria, rules, the way in which the public procurement and the estimated value are determined, the way in which market research and research is investigated, the responsibility for planning, the objectives of the procurement process, the way in which public procurement is carried out, the way in which public procurement obligations are carried out, the way in which competition is provided, the implementation and the control of public procurement, the way in which public procurement contracts are monitored. Large orders are required to educate a special service that will carry out exclusive control of public procurement at least twice a year. If that service finds that the instructions and recommendations are not respected, it is necessary to inform the DRI accordingly and, indirectly, about the cost of the contracting authority, increases the efficiency of the DRI work. The person who has participated in the planning of public procurement, the preparation of competitive documents, or certain parts thereof, cannot perform as a bidder or a subcontractor, nor can he cooperate with the tenderers when preparing the offer. The procedure shall be suspended if there is any reasonable doubt of the integrity of the proceedings and the competent national authorities shall be informed. For the first time, a serious alarm guard has been introduced. These are the most frequently employed by the client or bidders who report corruption. We're all witnesses that the people who reported it went through, the people who reported corruption. This law can no longer question that. In this place, I must point out that it is necessary to amend the Law on Mobing, the Law on Preventing Labour Abuse, because the existing law is very bad, written to confuse the EU. A very important measure is the ban on working with the bidder. This means that a customer’s manager, in a two - year period after leaving office, is unable to work, or be employed by the client. The purchases of more than 700 million dinars will be supervised by a civilian supervisor, or a billion dinars. It is a person, for example, from the NGO sector, which deals with public procurement and who oversees the procurement process. Obligations to report damage to competition in the protection of alarmers are foreseen, which report illicit restrictive actions in agreements. Finally, most importantly, preventing conflicts of interest, if there is a relationship that can lead to conflicts of interest because of the relationship between the representatives of the contracting authorities and the tenderers, cannot be concluded with that bidder. This measure is strictly restrictive, but appropriate in its existing state. In line with the draft directive, we'll see if we can put certain exceptions under clearly defined legal frameworks. In part, in our opinion, optimal centralisation of public procurement, we introduce a mandatory partial centralisation of public procurement at the republican level, but optimal for both the order and the subject of procurement. This is because centralised public procurement, as tempting as it may seem to some, has one very bad feature, which is to create certain monopolies on the market. It is therefore a proposal to be partially centralised public procurement, so that even those other persons, who, because of territory, or because of the place of execution of public works and their headquarters, or residence, cannot make a more favourable offer than those on one particular ground. This law allows some of the weaker bidders, under certain conditions, to participate in the procurement process and to get a job that is subject to public procurement. What's also important in this law and what was also a corrupt element is subcontractor engagement. We had a situation where there was a company that was self-registered for a particular activity, that no longer meets any conditions in the performance of that activity, except that it has a registration, that it was mostly given public procurement, the provision of public services, and that other persons hired for it. I do not see any possible justification for why the company, which was engaged as a subcontractor, would make a worse offer than that offered by the person, as the subject of public procurement, and then, for the smaller means, hired by a subcontractor who did not get a job in the first proceedings. So the subcontractor's engagement under the bill can't be more than 50%. When it comes to public procurement, there were often certain irregularities in the advertising itself for public procurement, which is that the ad contained such provisions, that there was no picture of who should be getting a job in the area of public procurement. We have laid down such provisions by the proposal for this law, in addition to the description of the type, the standardisation of equipment and services and goods which may be subject to public procurement, another additional technical and technological characteristic, which cannot be subject to the contract of public procurement, is excluded. It even happened that you have the name of the manufacturer whose equipment or goods must be the subject of public procurement when advertising in the public procurement procedure. It is a classic abuse that, unfortunately, has occurred in the past period and has been extremely common. When it comes to this area, which may have been one of the most corrupt moments, it is also an annexation of the contract, which was concluded as a subject of public procurement, which is that often because of this possibility of annexing the contract – the most favourable offer after the completed job was one of the most unfavourable, i.e. contract annexes, often ten, fifteen, twenty, and even 25% increased the value of the goods and services that were already more expensive compared to those mentioned in the contract when getting the job. The bill makes it easier to participate in public procurement itself. I can say that for some pretty unknown reasons, for example, we've given authority to certain state bodies, such as the Agency for Business Registers, which manages registers of all legal entities and individuals engaged in certain activities and has given them a legal obligation, that the data on all persons registered through the Agency for Commercial Registers is published on the website as official data. Then we had a situation that the state authorities had requested that a confirmation be made from that same agency, i.e. a copy of the founding decisions that could not be less than three months, and earlier six months, where they slowed down all persons who wanted to participate in the public procurement process, for the three, four or five days until the agency issued. Not to say that it certainly costs economic operators, so it is questionable – why an insight into the site of a state authority, and it is required by the same state authority a special need not less than three months, and it is possible to obtain confirmation within a few hours to execute the liquidation, i.e. the erasure of the legal entity from the agency, which will of course be seen on the site, and not from that solution that has been made. All these fundamental changes in the new law on public procurement are, in fact, addressed to the public procurement process as easily and faster as possible, with a specific plan for the implementation of public procurement, with the measures provided for in the law, which go towards removing those corrupt elements and abuses in the conclusion of the contract, and in particular the annexation of the contracts themselves. Once again, I will repeat that the SNS and all other parliamentary groups that have supported this bill will be ready to consider any amendment, regardless of which parliamentary groups it comes from, and if it does have a real quality impact on the quality of the law, it will accept it. I would like to invite all MPs to vote on this bill of public procurement in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8819	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8820	Ladies and gentlemen, President, colleagues and colleagues, the intention of passing this law is honorable. The amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act have the support of the general public, as well as the departementisation which one of the pre-election promises was the focus of almost all political parties. However, in a later period after the government's formation, we were not convinced that the election promises were made in line with votes received in the elections. Loss of state-owned companies, budget subsidies, theft in tenders, each Serbian resident hits 700 euros annually. As a result, the World Bank and other organisations, such as the OECD, believe that an annual tender in Serbia disappears without any insight of around a billion euros. The bill is simple. There are 590 public enterprises in Serbia. All these companies together have a loss of more than four billion euros, and only on this basis is each of Serbia's 7.5 million inhabitants minus 530 euros. We all pay, I return to the beginning of my exposure, the budget subsidies for these companies, which, on an annual basis, takes 250m euros or another 35 euros per capita. That's why we're in a situation where we have to change something. This is a step in the right direction and I'm going to talk about some positive sides of the intention, but I'm going to look back on bad legal solutions later on. Today, public enterprises are the biggest debtors of the economy, at least according to what we officially get as MPs when we ask for a question – who are the biggest debtors currently in Serbia. I still haven't received an answer to the question I asked the finance minister one last week of the month, and that is -- is it true that the tycoons of Serbia owe 5.5 billion euros based on taxes and contributions? Some media, I'm not going to name them because I don't want parliament to give them a commercial and a set-up, they said whoever enters their website can see what tycoons they are. That's what I was talking about. I mentioned their names before the arrests happened. Once again, I ask the question – is it true that they owe Serbia 5.5 billion euros based on taxes and other contributions? The state should make public enterprises more transparent. At the last session of parliament, when we talked about the Law on Incentives of Construction Industry, asked – which companies received 325 projects and how far did these projects come? Where is the money that was being pooled from the RS budget or pouring or is it intended to join domestic companies dealing with the construction industry? Also, I'm going back to being transparent, and we need to see what companies are getting jobs and how much they're doing with the projects they're working on. On the website of the Ministry of Finance of Croatia you can see how their public enterprises operate and that is public information. At the beginning of the term of office of this government, I asked the question – what about the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because unless we have a transparent and public work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we cannot expect that we have a transparent public work of public enterprises? In some media, I could read that the Rules of Procedure would change, but in the direction of even greater secrecy, and here reminds me again that Croatia is far ahead of us on the EU road for many reasons. Among other things, because there are video clips on the Croatian Government's website with their sessions and video clips where we can see which of the ministers voted for what proposal. I'm doing a little dyspression. I asked the question – how did any of the ministers vote when adopting the Rehabilitation Law at the RS government's meetings during the term of office of the last government and during the term of office of this government? I didn't get an answer. It's already being treated like an official secret in one or the other. I have data on how many public enterprises in the name of the goods delivered and the services provided owe to private companies in Serbia. We know that the state protects public enterprises in this sense that unless it pays taxes and contributes, it does not carry any controversy, but if the private companies that owe these public enterprises do not do the same, they will be closed very quickly or will be visited by the tax and any other police. It's also problematic that the offer is in the tender, which is an average of 3.3, and we know how the tenders are set up. We know that during the previous period, a monopoly that existed over the media protected all corruption affairs, protected all jobs that were non-transparently given to people who held a monopoly in the economy in Serbia. We know who the media was. It is a good intention of the government to try to stop corruption, which in Serbia has received an edema situation. In the previous period, instead of fighting corruption, we were able to see teachers arrested for 100 or 200 euros, as doctors were arrested for intending to take from the patient a bribe of 500 or 700 euros, and a billion euros a year, for which we also have confirmation from Vensan Dežer, whose confirmation we have, ultimately and from the World Bank, managed to hide and we had a non-transparent distribution of funds to KIM, and everything under the company patriotism. I think the root here is extremely deep. That's what I've been talking about relatively recently. This government is made up of half of the previous government. It seems that if the analysis went backwards and part of the pre-government made it part of Kostunica's government, it makes it part of Djindjic's government and until 1990. So, the fight against corruption is a struggle that must be fought for the 1990s on this side. In the 1990s we are now, I hope the investigation is going in that direction, although as an MP, I have no intention of commenting on it, where is the money from the loan for the Serbian rebirth, where is the money from the old foreign savings? At that time, close people, then in the regime, were able to come into a position to get huge funds overnight, and later, after October 5, a system of robbery was perfected. We had, during the government of pro-European forces, tender corruption. We know how the tenders were staged. The public knows that. I'm not bringing any new truths here. We know about the model of the frat companies. We know how money went to local self-government from the ministry and public enterprises. I mean, and it's a SPO message, and I'd like everyone to come into our site and look at our 2007 programme declaration about decentralisation of government in Serbia, that capital is large, and two-thirds of Serbian capital is turning around in a circle of two, which is located in ministries giving birth to large corruption. It would be good to decentralised Serbia. It would be good for the direct control of budget spending to be established by the fact that in a restaurant on a larger budget than it is now, and yet on a small budget, compared to which the ministries have, it will be directly controlled by those people who have the resources and who follow the control of the projects. The punishment would be quick. In the next election, these people would disappear. This is how it seems to me that without one systematic arrangement for Serbia, decentralisation, we cannot go far in terms of curbing corruption and Serbia's economic recovery. We know how corruption perfected itself when collecting bids for tenders. We know what awaited companies that had no deals with public enterprises or directors, and they wanted to participate in a tender with better offers, how these companies or these people, the owners of these companies, were given advice to give up, because they would benefit much more if they gave up their participation and handed over the tender documents than if they won the same tender. I will return to centralism established in Serbia and giving birth to large corruption so that, under current electoral law in Serbia, 250 MPs of this parliament could be residents of a Belgrade soloist. In the past term, and in this term, several dozen, it is about 50 municipalities in Serbia do not have their representatives in the Republic Parliament. So until we realize that the distribution of funds must lead to a balanced regional development, and that projects that are of fateful importance for Serbia's development must be run by people who know their local self-government best and who know these problems, I don't think we will be able to get far in the fight for Serbia's recovery. A hole in the budget is the price of such a law on public procurement. All in all, given the purpose of the ruling coalition and the proposing, I cannot say that there is not at least a few places to praise this legal solution. What's wrong? I brought it on purpose to see. Look at what the law is - 169 pages. He doesn't save by spending this much paper. The text of the law is extremely large. It's not just this law. That is the problem of almost all Serbian laws that are quite extensive, and could be incomparably more concrete. The legislative proposal conditions the general administration for the purpose of public procurement. General bodies are the Agency for Joint Affairs, the Public Procurement Administration, the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, with no clear definition of the relationship between these bodies, between the Board of Procurement and the Agency for Joint Affairs. I'll show it to the members later. I'm going to have to open the law, but I think he's a member of 49 of this law and 123, but that's the one. The procedure for public procurement is expensive, complicated and not rational from the aspect of the time needed. This is what the profession says, because in the meantime I have consulted with people who have had experience in this area and who have been dealing with this matter for almost an entire professional century. The participation of natural persons in public procurement competitions has not been regulated. Although the Rules of Procedure do not allow it, I will address the Proposer. For example, if it comes to specialized services and works, legal and professional, research and other services. This is all well-meaning. I'll show you some more flaws. I'll try this pile of paper to figure it out. On page 27, this is Article 49. Laws – Department for Joint Affairs. This should explain the relationship between the Agency for Joint Affairs and the Public Procurement Administration. That's one of the remarks. On page 63, see what a Serbian law appears to be like. "The contract award shall take place in the open", Article 123, "restrictive, i.e. qualification procedure or in the negotiating procedure with the publication of calls for tenders". It's not clear when it's being conducted open, when it's being restrictive, and when it's being qualified. It's not clearly defined by law. Page 72. – The Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. "For a member of the Republic Commission, a person who has acquired a higher education from the scientific field, economic or technical technology can be elected." Look, engineering sciences have been introduced, and it is known that the best economists have become the best mathematicians. I wonder why he can be an electric engineer or a machine engineer, and he can't be someone who's a mathematician, since he's a portable know-it-all. In the world of business, the best economists, especially in Western countries, are mathematicians or people whose base of mathematics is for economics. For example, it can be a forest engineer, but it can't be someone with natural mathematical science. Here, in order to prevent conflicts of interest, Article 144(1) – President, or RIK member cannot perform another public function, perform functions in a political party, or perform any other function, service, job, duty or activity that could affect its independence in work and conduct, or that would diminish its reputation or reputation as president, or member of RIK. From the above, in my opinion, these prohibitions should be exempt from educational and scientific research, because I don't believe they can create a conflict of interest. When all is considered, the objections are neither large nor small, above all well-intentioned, I think we will take a step forward towards possible savings in the future, this famous one billion that would mean more than the incentives or loans we receive, for example, from the Russian Federation under the most unfavourable conditions, of all the loans we have received or from donations of the grants from the grants we received from Germany, amounting to a billion and 200,000 euros. Turning towards the EU, Serbia's direction towards the EU also implies European laws, means respect for the European Commission's recommendations, European officials. I think the intention of the law is the same, but the essence should follow the intentions, so that we can get an effective and applicable law, not to be in a position to change it again in some future period. All in all, there are places for citizens of Serbia to be satisfied, there are places to be dissatisfied, especially the professional public. We are entering a process that tells us that we are slowly moving in the direction in which SPO has insisted for the last two decades, and that is what is positive and it is good that Serbia removes all mistakes in advance, so that the consequences of these mistakes do not wait in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8821	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8822	Dear Vice-Presidents, representatives of the promoters, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the LDP will not support this bill in the voting day. Perhaps we could vote for such a law, if we believed that a dead letter on paper could change the situation in Serbia or if we lived in a glass bell, so that we could not see what is happening at the same time, while before parliament thunderingly comes with such a law, in fact in the public, economic, economic and political life of Serbia. I see that only the representatives of a political party have been speaking for the time being, although, as I have seen, formally as the legislators of this bill appear to be different parliamentary groups of the ruling majority, it is obvious to me that it has intimidated that great enthusiasm and positive energy that ruled some year or a year or a half ago, when a revolution of public procurement was announced as one of the main pre-election assets of SNS and Tomislav Nikolic. Some of the gratuitous optimism has remained to this day. It was also increased, even in one part, by those big announcements that adoption and application of this law would allow savings of about 600m or 650m euros per year, and yesterday, it seems to me today, at one point from Mr Arsic, without any evidence of any claim that an annual savings from a billion euros will be achieved. If you say that last year the value of public procurement was about 2.7 billion euros, if I understand you correctly, Mr. Arsic, don't you think it's completely pointless that optimism, when you tell us that in 2013, by applying this law, you're going to make a billion-euro savings? I think that's completely irrational to expect. Besides, the budget bill you adopted in this House a few weeks ago is best confirmed by what I was talking about. Is the budget of Serbia and the budgets of local self-government, public and state-owned enterprises, all those state bodies that participate and purchase goods and services in public procurement procedures, have they foreseen for 2013 the total funds for these purposes that have been reduced by a billion euros? I'm not sure. That savings is a few dozen times smaller, or should I say more correct, just a few percent than what you predict as savings. It is absolutely pointless to argue that you will achieve this ideal of order, justice and great savings, because on the day you are before this Parliament, when you are explaining in Parliament the Law on Public Procurement to which all those who were in power before you, and a significant part of them, as we have said so many times, is in power and today with you, you have adopted the Law on Aid to the Construction Industry, on the continuation of the application of the Law on Aid to the Construction Industry. It is a law that, following the recognition of Minister Velimir Ilic himself, fully exempts from this procurement process, and one that existed in the old law and the one that you are introducing with the new law. Where, in which segments, Mr Arsic, will have such great savings, when in one of the key areas, in one of the areas where abuses are, where are the setting up of purchases, where is the full violation of the principles of public procurement, free market and competition, and that is the construction industry, the application of the laws suspended? You will continue to use this cartel that you have made, divided the market, and then the money, 200m euros, I repeat again Mr Ilic's words, to deploy beyond any public procurement procedure. Secondly, you are no longer in the election or election campaign. You've been in power now, and you've been in power for six months. This binds you to a new dose of seriousness, which unfortunately is not characteristic of your behavior. Yesterday, I saw the incredible statements made by the president of this House who also, with great joy and optimism, announced great savings and new legislation and as some of the key arguments in favour of his optimism, cited an alleged revolutionary solution in which he could no longer be able to, therefore, you claim that under this law, he will no longer be able to conclude transactions, i.e. public procurement through direct negotiations, i.e. by guessing. It's such a big lie, it's really an insult to this parliament. Yes, it has been difficult for these ten days or how much the law is in the formal congregation procedure, to spot everything, but we can still read. There are members 35, 36. Article 36. The proposal for a law on public procurement is called – a negotiation procedure without publication of calls for tenders. Not only is it not excluded from the possibility of coming to work through direct negotiation, but there is, you will say – that is the exception, and something is called – a negotiation procedure without publishing calls for tenders. When something is an exception, it usually involves one, two or three situations. Your proposal for a law on public procurement knows eight possible situations in which this negotiation procedure is applied and these are not harmless, few cases at all. It will be cases of hundreds of millions of euros in taxpayers' money. Therefore, one reason, if, for technical or artistic reasons of the subject-matter of public procurement or for reasons related to the protection of exclusive rights, only a certain bidder can make the purchase. Please, design, beauty and artistic impression, it has been one of the easiest grounds so far to avoid the procurement process and to agree directly on the various segments of public procurement, from advertising material, to many large and significant procedures. The other thing you were talking about is that it will no longer be possible through famous contract annexes, as was the case so far, that it is actually increasing the value of purchases and that in this way spending more money than the original contract was allowed, that is, on the other hand, to completely disabling the category of competition, that is, the public procurement process, because that is actually the end of the job by the one whose price is higher, it just doesn't show up at the very beginning, but later through the contract annex. This article I'm talking about also allows something like that. You say, again, this process of direct negotiations without offers – in the case of additional delivery of goods from the original supplier intended for a partial replacement, etc. or the extension of the volume of existing materials products, installations, which, due to the change of suppliers, would oblige the contracting authority to obtain material which has other technical characteristics. You know it's always possible to build a system so it looks like technical characteristics are different and it's justified to buy extra goods with the same bidder. You say – where the total value of all additional supplies of goods cannot be greater than 15% of the total value of the original contract. So again, you allow the possibility that after a small door the original price will increase by 15%, regardless of whether in the first phase the right procedure has been conducted by law or some other procedure. There are also a whole series of provisions that point to this, which combined with some other provisions of the law, actually say that key corruption generators in public procurement procedures will be unbroken, that they will be preserved fully and after the entry into force of these laws. You will say that in the follow-up of the same member and in some other members you ensure that these are really rare exceptions, that there is control of the competent authorities, that the Public Procurement Administration is giving an opinion on something like this, etc. The Public Procurement Administration has given an opinion on these procedures, but this does not mean that it must be positive. Of course you will carry out these procedures, that those entering public procurement procedures will carry out these procedures as they have been, even if there is a negative opinion of the Public Procurement Authority. You didn't say approval in the bill, you said opinion, without entering what it should be. So it's just formally necessary to have some kind of opinion of the Public Procurement Authority. Then comes the most incredible attitude when you say that the orderer is obliged to provide competition whenever possible by inviting more faces. What will it look like in real, real life, Mr. Arsic? What do you think will be more often possible to secure competition or will those who acquire goods by this member, or under these conditions, avoid even the possibility of protecting the principle of competition and that they will directly negotiate with whoever is selected as a supplier somewhere far outside of that public enterprise or outside the state authority, most often at a political level? Of course, the popular theme is to fight the abuse and spilling money through public procurement, such as the popular theme of the department. Someone's already mentioned it here. Of course, the experiences we have with your brutal violation of the election promise, the introduction of the principle of departmentation, are as negative as the great disappointment when this law comes into force and when nothing really changes in public procurement procedures. A little in our public, I think, is talking about what is the essential generator of corruption, in society in general, but in public procurement procedures especially. You keep going from the assumption that there are enormous thefts and abuses. I can agree that serious abuses exist and existed in public procurement procedures, but it is not a key source of money spilling out of the state register through these procedures. The problem with Serbia is that there are too many public procurements, not above all that the Public Procurement Act is bad. You don't touch anywhere in this law, you're not trying to solve that problem. How are public procurement planned? Why does someone go into so many public procurement procedures? I see you disagree, Mr Arsic, but if you had done otherwise, if you had done this seriously, you would not have the amount for public procurement, or for the purchase of goods and services in the 2013 budget, been practically the same as in the 2012 budget. Either you haven't conducted a serious analysis, or you've decided to continue to abuse state resources in the same way, if you're already claiming that such abuses existed. When this part of the agenda is over, we'll move on to the next point. Who in this country has examined whether it was justified to take credits for which we will be giving guarantees to Serbia tomorrow of 170m euros and 30m euros, Galenici of, I think, 10.5m euros, although I think that in that law you even have a technical error in that amounting to 15m euros, the return of a 10m-euro JAT loan? Who decides that? How is it estimated by this law whether JAT Airways should buy, rent two, five or ten planes or no planes? Do you understand that we live in a country where we gave a 50m-euro JAT loan a few years ago to rent two planes, among other things? It's been years, JAT didn't rent planes, he threw the money away, I don't know where. Then who was estimating? How will this law assess whether JAT needs planes, whether "Serbiagasu" needs this or whether the National Employment Service needs to have on a bunch of domestic televisions leased television terms in which it advertises I don't know what? What does the National Employment Service advertise? Everyone in Serbia, from child to pensioner, those who are the longest at home and can watch TV the most in different terms, everyone knows what this famous director of the National Employment Service looks like, since every day in paid television videos or leased terms explain how amazing successes in hiring people have been achieved, i.e. finding jobs. Is it justified to buy such television time or not justified? Please explain to me how this law solves this problem? All forms of commercial advertising by state authorities, public and state-owned enterprises, how does this law solve this problem? We all live in this country and we all know that much more and much more often money is misused in this way, by buying marketing, television services, different forms of advertising, than by cheating on staples. You will admit that abuses in that segment are much greater. In fact, I can also tell you what a key political reason LDP won't vote for this law, even if it's the best in the world, and it's not, it's got at least 20 flaws. We have submitted more than 10 amendments. We do not believe you that fair, fair, efficient and transparent public procurement will be able to run the state, i.e. state bodies in the image of Alexander Vulin and Dragoljub Simonovic, as the president of "The Railway of Serbia" has already been named the other day, a man who became a graduate economist from 2008 to 2012, and then, beyond the competition, three days before the entry into force of the Law on Public Enterprises, appointed as director. How much is the annual supply volume, say, "Serbian Railway"? You expect us to believe that a person with such qualifications, such as Mr Simonovic, in a system that has so far been very weak from the point of view of corruption, pierced to a thousand sides, that was our objection to those who led the "Serb Railway" before you, that there is no uncertainty, that this company, or in that company, which has an annual subsidy of 130m euros, will have accumulated a loss of over a billion euros, that this process will satisfy all the principles that you speak of when you talk about savings? What's changed? Are the same people or parties of those people who have been linked to the purchase of famous Swedish trains, locomotives and compositions still related to the company, the government of Serbia? And that's when it was formally legal, but basically nothing was legal. Cut off that part of party management and it will be the best fight against abuse and corruption in public procurement, not a law that has hundreds of pages that every authorised person or employee in different segments of the administration or public enterprises acting under the Public Procurement Act will burn their brains when they try to read it and understand it. This will not matter anyway, since at some party forums, coalition agreements or the self-will of the directors, I believe that in some situations it is not the result of the party's decision, all of this will be suspended, some of these procedures of exceptions, which I was talking about, and again the effects will be absolutely identical as they have been so far. Why should we believe that this law will be fairer, better and that it will be better implemented? If you expected the public to trust you to departize public and state-owned enterprises, then appoint persons without any qualifications, high-ranking party officials in those places. Have you seen Mr. Simonovic's cynicism? He said he didn't care if he was appointed under the law, whether he was appointed on the basis of the competition, that's what politicians decide, and he's what, I guess, the businessman. That's the man who was president of the Grock municipality until yesterday. The senior official of your party, before that, in several terms an MP of the SRS, in which you, or most of you, were with him. What's going to happen at JAT? What's going to happen in a number of other companies? How will Galenika function differently? What, one director's gonna replace the other? How will abuses in the PIO Fund be prevented, in any segment of the state administration in which the government directly decides, or politicians? None of these questions are answered by this law. At the very end, I'm telling you, we've proposed a dozen amendments, and with a whole series of amendments, we'll try to do it through the committees, given that there wasn't enough time. You know that European institutions have had a few dozen objections to this law. You mentioned an important question at one point, and that's alarming protection. We, for example, think that in this bill, that question is not well solved. We have proposed, as you know, an amendment to this law that treats this problem, we have proposed an entirely special model of law that would improve rights, the position of those people who dare despite the difficult conditions to point to potential cases of corruption. Cases of corruption, abuse of powers are mainly related to public procurement procedures, as you yourself know, especially in this economic or economic sector, i.e. through public enterprises and state-owned companies. I hope you can adopt at least one of those amendments. As for these other remarks that I was talking about, I think you've managed to understand the LDP's position, that it's fair in the sense that we've also referred to those who before you, in fact created this system, the state-run governance of the economy, that is, by binding. About 30% of Serbia's budget is 2.7 billion. When you want to look at European experiences and copy or adopt a European experience with changes, then take how much money there is compared to the budget, or the GDP, which we usually take to measure, goes to public procurement, how much it goes here. In that difference, you will see the key generators of corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8823	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank my fellow MP for a debate. I think it's constructive, no matter what I've noticed, it's a little bit of heat, it's political, but we're doing a good policy, so that's understandable. I called to answer a few questions, where they saved you from. The current, means those registered public procurements are 9% of GDP, and many contracting authorities did not report public procurement because there was no control. No procurements financed from foreign loans were recorded either. They were not recorded, so-called. confidential purchases. Therefore, when all of this is recorded, we expect around 5 billion euros to be financed, i.e. to be the subject of public procurement. Savings? Yeah, they're expected. It's not true that I said it was going to be a billion, I said it's hard to judge until the law goes into effect, some of our expectations are to be between 600 million euros and a billion. Are they in the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013? I didn't do budget projections, I don't believe there are, because this law wasn't in force at the time. He's not in effect yet. Those who understand themselves a little bit in the budget system, and since I hear they like to earn, they know themselves that even if money is saved on a public job, based on some public procurement, that it can't be used for other purposes. So the budget system limited spending. You cannot do what was planned to build a road, to which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given consent, referred as the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, you cannot spend savings other than to rebalance or return it to budgets at the end of the year. When it comes to these famous annexes, let's take a look at the whole article. So, under what conditions is the negotiation procedure applied. There was a colleague who discussed it the same way. So one of the conditions for an open, or restrictive procedure has not received any offers. So, there's something you have to do, some work you have to do. You didn't have an offer, you're going into open procedure, you're negotiating. Now this famous member, i.e. I could say point 4. yes – in the case of additional delivery of goods from the original supplier intended for a partial replacement of products, materials, installation or extension of the volume of existing material products, an installation which, due to the change of suppliers, would oblige the client to obtain material that has different technical characteristics. So this isn't an annex. In the contract annex, under the applicable law, if you're planning to pave the way, and I'm going to talk about local self-government, it's very easy, it's more ground and more acceptable. You're planning to pave the street that's, say, 4,000 kilometers away. And you get 4000 kilometers. The example works by 4 million, you get in the public procurement process under the existing law, and then 25% for the same job, for the same activity you increase these works. So, the same job pays a million dinars more than originally. This is about extending the service with certain conditions, which is that the original contract cannot be concluded within a period of two years. Or, more picturesquely, it's like buying a car, a colleague, so God forbid the engine goes down. Now, you can choose, you want to buy a bike from that car you bought, or you're going to replace the whole car. That's why there's a point 4, so let me explain. So, for equipment that is already installed and only for a new one, not the same works with the same price, but only for new works with an old price, but up to 15%. You know what, too, in one part you have the right to suspect that we will obey the law. It's your political right. Many also suspected that when we came to power, we would be hyperinflation. It didn't happen. That it would be a printing of money. It didn't happen. That there will be a fight against corruption. It happens. That we're going to write a new law on public procurement. It happens. That he would support us in this coalition. It will. And if they were wrong, as many claim, what would they vote for one such law? I believe that after so many years, Serbia needs change. You have the right to doubt. It's your right. It is our right to respect the will of the citizens who are shown in the elections and to justify the trust of those voters who voted for us, which is why we make such laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8825	Thank you. Mr. Djuric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8826	Excellent, Mr. Arsic, that you mentioned that picturesque example of a car that I believe the vast majority of our citizens understand. You say – if you buy a car, then fail or the engine breaks down, then you choose whether you buy it from the same car or from another. Within two years of this law, you have the opportunity to carry out a new procedure without conducting a new procedure, or re-application from the one from which you initially bought it. There's only one difference here. When you buy a car, usually there's a guarantee, so if something like that happens to you within two years, then you won't have to buy anything, it's already included in the original price, or your vehicle will be put into ideal condition, usable condition. This is about you paying 15% of the new price, increased existing prices. That's what this is about, Mr. Arsic. It's not true it's about new things. Point 5, I was just quoting point 4. Point 5 is even more explicit. She says – if new services and works are provided, which due to unpredictable circumstances have become necessary for the execution of the public procurement contract. It's the same thing that's happened so far, if you will, on your case of paved road. You have reasons for urgency, so how many of these cases are there going to be? Do you know how urgent it is when suddenly elections are held, so the villages of Podokin must be made throughout Serbia, you know. You haven't answered my key questions. Public enterprises, state-owned companies, who will control, say, the money that goes towards Kosovo? One significant part is related either to public procurement or to the avoidance of public procurement, you know that was the case so far. You refused two or three weeks ago here to introduce mandatory DRI control. That's why we don't believe that what you're announcing as good intentions, you'll be able to implement in the end. Please, these e-mail and control systems, so check what the company's website looks like that you've set up the directors over the last few months. No biography, let alone e-mails.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8827	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8828	It seems to me that we or we don't read the same bill, I don't know, says point 4. – in the case of additional delivery of goods from the original supplier. So, with the extra delivery, the new one, not for the already contracted job, it's over. This is an additional job under those conditions, under which the original was won, that's what it's all about. In point 5, which were not included in the original project, it happens, life is like that, but it can't be the conclusion of the contract, so due to the unforeseen circumstances, we go to 25%, because the costs of the same works have been reportedly increased. It's been an abuse so far. Instead of going to the end of the contract and the re-procurement process, they say, he's now expensive bitumen. That's why you'll pay twice as much, or 25%, because at the time the contract was closed, it was a lower price. It's gone. To make things worse, it was then left as discretionary law, not a commission that carried out the procurement procedure, but the discretionary right of the manager who appointed the commission. In this law there is no more, and that is why we expect those savings. No, new works are – new works, new equipment is – new equipment. Maybe under old conditions, but the limit is up to 15%. Those famous annexes, which were, so it was for the same job, pay 25% more than agreed. That's the fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8829	Thank you. The word is Mr. Djuric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8830	It's not about whether it's new goods or services, but, as you said yourself, increased costs, that's been solved so far, right? When increased, when requested or requested by the current law, an increase is due to new costs which could not be predicted at the time of public procurement, or the conclusion of the contract, is that so, these costs are the result of the provision of certain services. Very plastic, that's the most common case, isn't it? Our streets are being excavated six, seven, eight times, each company is working in its own rhythm, thus far increasing the costs of public procurement, or when the streets are dug up, suddenly something that could not be predicted is revealed. To solve this emerging problem, you have, you provide a new service, the one doing the job. Based on that, it invoices an increase in price. As a result, costs have been increased so far. You cited a different example, yet it was rare in practice so far. Here's a concrete example, is it possible for this law to happen again, judging by the testimony of the media that happened recently, and this is mass practice, as you know, that, in the Power Network of Serbia, as far as I think it is, is excluded, and this law also does, public procurement procedures, when a job for the user of budget funds, public enterprises, state-owned, etc. is being done by a connected person? You know, then in practice, it was just a formal job getting a connected face, and then actually being a subcontractor, essentially a contractor of the whole business, or most of the work, some other company. You have in yesterday's and today's media testimony from the Elektro Network of Serbia, that is, one of their dependent companies, that the job was agreed, directly with some private contractor, and that then the dependent society of the Elektro Network of Serbia only appeared to cover these legal conditions with its offer that there was no public procurement and it was built for 5%. That's what the participants say in the process, and they had to take some commission. Will that be possible under this law?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8831	Thank you. The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8832	It won't be, it's just one of the reasons we're passing this law, that one. You know, the connected faces, okay, can be the founder of a branch of Elektroprivreda and it has a connected face, but it has a connected face if it has the means created by public affairs or the budget of the Republic of Serbia, it has to call the same public procurement. He can't do that because it's connected to a person who spends the money he wants. Whoever's a performer doesn't have to. Now, this is exactly the law, and it happened that the subcontractor was making a more unfavourable offer than the contractors, and then he was hired as a subcontractor, how's that? How is he now paid in the process of getting a job, or public procurement, not giving the most favourable offer, and then being a subcontractor for much less money, what is the problem? In agreement. It's gone. Only up to 50% can a subcontractor be. All subcontractors cannot be more than 50% in one subject of public procurement. I was a witness. Three companies, I'm not going to name them, all three are getting the same performance, so they're probably so scared that someone doesn't cheat, so where the first company is a contractor, the second is a subcontractor, where the second company is a contractor, the third is a subcontractor, where the third is a contractor, the first is a contractor. So round and round, one of them doesn't cheat, along with whoever ordered the public procurement. It's gone, there's your savings. So, as we're going to explain, the question is, is it really possible that there are so many savings? Here, the fire department for construction, I'll mention this public enterprise, in 2007 or 2008, the streets of twins, the same area, the same width, the same width, the same volume of work, the same quality of the base, and the difference three times. Then who's crazy about it? And everything was in accordance with the law, everything, but it was a bad law. Now let's get the law straight. I mean, I said, there are no perfect laws, someone said it would be a shame if this law turned out to be bad, so we changed it. It'll be a shame if it turns out to be bad, and you can be sure it won't be bad. Whether we need to change it, some are estimates, we probably will, to make it even better, because in law enforcement, we'll see where some mistake has been made. In any case, here, we have time and time to debate in particular to see these amendments that you have submitted and to consider them and why not, if they are indeed for the purpose of amending the law, and to accept them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8833	Thank you. Mr. Djuric, please give up the replica to allow others. You won't give up? No, I don't. Here you go, but I'm closing this circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8834	They were misread, I don't think Mr. Arsic understood the question in one part, which is why I answered. So, I was thinking about a situation where a state-owned company wants to, for example, build a transistor station. Its management directly agreed with a private company to do so at a certain price, and then to avoid the procurement process, business is formally entrusted to a connected person, i.e. a dependent company of a state company and there is no public procurement procedure, and at that price agreed with a private contractor, a percentage for this subsidiary. That's the problem, and this law doesn't solve it, it doesn't matter if it's a 50% limited share of the subcontractor or not. You know, in these big jobs, 50% is sometimes a few dozen or even a few hundred million. I agree with you that it's important that there's no deal. That's why I asked you at the beginning why you voted in favour of the law on continuing the application of the Law on Aid to the Construction Industry, which enables it to do just that, directly agreeing the state and selected construction firms, where they appear in the circle as performers, subcontractors, subcontractors, etc., etc. That's why the law is so problematic, that's why we were so against it, because it binds 200m euros in budget funds to itself. On the same day that you proposed this law, when you talk to me about savings, about preventing abuse in public procurement procedures, you suspended public procurement for such an important area. That's what was the essence of my remark. From what you've said, I conclude that perhaps you haven't fully understood the importance of the law that has been voted on today. Of course, I'm not that naive. Mr. Arsic, I know that you have perfectly understood what this law means and that in that segment of abuse will be made possible in the future and that they will be formally in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8835	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8836	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President, is before us one of the very important laws, which is the Public Procurement Act. We've been expecting him for a long time. We wanted it to be a long time ago, and now he's here. Why is he important? I'm talking about a general phenomenon. I think we're all in agreement here. Corruption is something that eats up our country, the state of Serbia, and it is our duty and task to fight corruption. How are we gonna fight? We'll fight by amending the law. The corruption of harrass in different areas. I would not say that everyone in all areas, as someone said, is corrupt, but there are ways where corruption finds a way to reach some individuals and that is how our country loses significant resources. Someone said that corruption took the endemic situation, which is true. How do you fight? By amending the law, but not only by amending the law, but also by strengthening the institutions of the system, strengthening courts, efficiency in the trial, therefore, something that we keep stressing, that we have good investigative authorities, good prosecutions, that we have courts that will be effective and fast, that the laws we are making will be in a position to apply them as we expect. One of these important and important laws is exactly the Public Procurement Act. To avoid dilemma, there is unity within the ruling coalition in the adoption of this law. Are we satisfied with all these solutions that exist? I can tell you right now that we're not, but we think this law is a significant step forward. We will influence that law to change. We have given several amendments and I hope that in agreement with other parliamentary groups we will fight to make this law better and better, because this law and its application are one of the important things for the state of Serbia. If there was talk that this is about 800 to a billion euros, where the funds from public procurement disappear, then indeed we must all be able to force this law to be consistently applied, but through strong institutions of the system that must exist. You know, I don't want to believe it or not to believe it. I want the system institutions to do their job. Believe it or not, it's a matter of personal commitment. I want the state behind all this, because it's the state that's really going to be able to put things forward through its institutions. What was spoken of, and on behalf of the promoter, Mr Arsic put out, all the bad sides of the previous law and what is what is being offered in the new Public Procurement Bill, one of the most important things I would like to encourage is the application of the European Directive. Is that enough? Of course not. Serbia is not in the EU. We have some other roads, other roads compared to other countries, but we also need to start making highways as soon as possible, which means using European laws, those laws that would be such that they would disable everything that was hidden and that would allow the funds to be poured into private pockets. They didn't just go into private pockets, those funds went to a lot of sides. That's what we have to say very openly and publicly here. Who got jobs in tenders? They were given party favorites, and most often before the elections, when some new Podokin villages were to be built, when it was to be shown to the public that something was being built in Serbia, it seems that it was something good, that Serbia is taking great steps forward. And when you get off those highways, you get into the mud. That's why we want to fight everywhere, in every area, as far as possible, to take some step forward. That's why we think this law is one step forward and the SDPS will support it. I stress again, the SDPS will also make amendments, because we believe that this law, as it is, can continue to be fixed. I'm not going to talk about it any further, because it's already been said in a debate so far. You know that we will vote in voting day and, again, I stress, there is unity in the ruling coalition. Don't think there's a crack where someone might find some difference. Do we always agree, I would not say that, but in important things, and one of the more important things why we have entered the ruling coalition is the fight against corruption, strengthening the institutions of the system and embezzling European laws, which is why we are in the ruling coalition, so that tomorrow in Serbia it would be much better to take part of our responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8837	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8838	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, unlike my esteemed colleague, Mijatovic, I will speak very closely about this bill on behalf of the NS parliamentary group, which is also one of the legislators of this law. I believe that this new law very detailedly introduces control in the public procurement process, promotes competitiveness and indeed has more reasons for its adoption. Now I'm going to bring just a few specific data that we could all come up with and that they gave to economic experts. The first is poor competitiveness in the procurement process. Out of about eight and a half offers per procedure in 2003, we came to 2.6% of offers per procedure in the first half of 2012. What the esteemed counterpart Arsic said is the problem is that the total value of public procurement in the Republic of Serbia in 2011 was about 9% of GDP, and the estimate is that the real volume of public procurement is far higher. He's taking out about 12% because no classified purchases have been recorded. Also, it is estimated that the new law will save up to about 7% through centralised procurement, and also between 20% and 25% of public funds intended for public procurement are lost due to corruption and, above all, in the negotiation process and the low-value public procurement process. Just one more piece of information. In 2011, the purchasers spent 105 billion dinars or a total of 35% of the total value of all public procurement reported through these two closed procedures. This law, in my opinion, has three essential macroeconomic characteristics. It prevents corruption and represents an effective instrument in preventing conflicts of interest. Another feature, I find very important, is that this bill sends a clear message to both international monetary institutions and foreign investors, that Serbia is now determined to regulate the whole area and reduce corruption and crime. The third very important reason is that savings are projected from 500m to 700m euros annually. I also find it very important that this law be applied to change its own way of thinking about all of us and behavior. First of all, when it comes to one responsible relationship with the state and public property. I also believe that in the area of public procurement there must be people of integrity, in whose professional biography there is no spot at all. Now, by the members, I'm going to try to make an affirmative point to the advantages of this bill. In particular, Article 21 states that there must be a written trail for each action taken. Article 22 provides for the obligation for the contracting authority to regulate public procurement procedures through an internal act, and large contracting entities are obliged to educate a special internal service to control public procurement procedures, for reasons of the control of efficiency and spending of public funds. Article 24 provides for the obligation to report corruption, as well as adequate protection of persons who have reported corruption, and Article 28 provides that the supervisor, appointed by the Public Procurement Administration, shall be a person who enjoys the reputation of society. It is important to stress that this individual is not a civil servant or has the right to any reward for his engagement. I think these two members are very important, because they increase transparency, which includes the general public to monitor the application of this law and report abuses. In particular, Chapter III of this Act, in almost 100 members, extremely, precisely and in detail, the conditions are defined, as well as the means of implementing the procurement procedure. On this occasion, I would first of all like to apostrophe of a member of the 39th Law, who regulates the procedure of public procurement of small value. I would point out that in 2012, only 300m euros were left on the discretionary right of ministers, director of public enterprises, mayors, to arrange public procurement for their rules. This law puts these shortcomings in a different plan. I think it prevents the ordery from acting in a similar way in the future to justify any misuse of an unclear legal provision. Also, Article 41 regulates the new form of the procurement procedure, which is by electronic means. It's consistent with general technological progress and I think it's a good thing that for the great values of establishing its own information system, for the purpose of applying electronic bidding. It is estimated from the EU that up to 5% of the value of public procurement is being saved by the electronic procurement system. Article 48 provides for a partial centralised of the public procurement system. It is primarily very clear when it comes to local self-government and predicts that more local self-government can be joined, and that at the central level this control is taken over by the existing Joint Affairs Authority. In Articles 64 and 69, the method of determining the estimated value of public procurement is precisely defined, and in Article 5(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 70, 71 and 72 have a clear accuracy on the use of technical specifications. Article 86 favours domestic bidders and in some ways corrects the current irregularity, or discriminatory attitude towards domestic economic operators. On the other hand, Article 125 provides for a condition of reciprocity for both tenderers. This legislative proposal also defined public procurement in the area of water, energy, security, which is the first time in our legal practice, and yet in line with EU recommendations. Articles 134 to 137 specify the positions, obligations, powers and responsibilities of the Public Procurement Administration, as well as public procurement officers. It is very important that these members are provided that the administration is timely delivering all the requested information and documents regarding public procurement, so that the Administration can perform its supervisory role in an adequate manner. Chapter VIII provides for a way to protect public procurement rights. The Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures is organised as an independent and independent body, whose president and members are elected and resolved by the National Assembly, following a public competition. Article 44 states that neither the president nor the member of the commission can perform any other function, service, work, such as they cannot perform any function in political parties. Article 147 provides that the commission for this work corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and reports twice a year. An additional aspect of the commission's responsibility is the possibility of leaving it to the contracting authority, i.e. the bidder who considers that they have been seriously injured in the procedure before the Commission, to provide a correspondence on this matter to the relevant assembly committee, and the committee may, on the basis of its own assessment, ask the Commission to submit a report on each individual case. I also expect that, as foreseen by the law, all sublegal acts will be brought in the next 90 days and that in a period of 60 days, the government will ensure the smooth work of the internet portal for public procurement, so that the law starts to be applied transparently and as planned. So this law wants us to increase competitiveness, we want to reduce corruption. I think it's coming at the right time, a few months after this government took office. I would like to say that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8839	The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8840	Dear Mrs. Kovac, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I would like to express my view of the URS regarding the Law on Public Procurement and, of course, we will support this legal solution. We did so with our signatures, along with the other MPs of the ruling coalition, by proposing that the law on public procurement be found on the agenda today, believing it to be a very important system law. The previous law has produced many problems, difficulties, many losses, and once again I say that it is very important that we all together, respecting the position of the opposition MPs, bring one quality legal solution. Transparency today is one of the basic democratic concepts and it implies that the affairs of democratic authorities are made available to the public. In other words, we should know what the government is doing, as much detail as we want, and first of all, know who's spending public money. Given the fact that in the Republic of Serbia about three billion are spent annually on public procurement, which is official data from the Public Procurement Authority, it can be concluded that there is a huge risk of corrupt operations in this area, which is at risk of public interest. At the very beginning, I'm going to make some devastating facts. Serbia loses about 800m euros in public procurement, according to some opinions and more because of negligence and corruption. From year to year, the number of bidders in public tenders is increasing, which leads to unequivocally doubt about the regularity of public procurement. The Public Procurement Administration report shows that there were 40% of the cases where only one bidder appeared in tenders last year and certainly not an accident. The data provided by the DRI makes it clear about the area of public procurement. Controlling 47 subjects, a sample of less than 1%, at the end of last year established public procurement of goods and services contrary to the 85 billion dinar law. Only one public company found irregularities in the area is about 35 billion dinars. Businesses competing in tenders most often have objections to competitive documentation, which they say often have criteria that few can meet. Serbia was ranked 83th on the list of 178 countries according to the perception and corruption index of the international NGO Transparens International. The area of public procurement is recognised as one of the key generators of corruption in our country. All of this indicates how dramatic the situation is in this area. I am sure we will all agree that the adoption of a good and quality legal solution is necessary. What I want to praise at the outset is a very good public debate that was conducted during the preparation of this law and an impressive number of interested people, people from the field of public procurement, who took part and who contributed to the suggestions, remarks and suggestions, so that today we have a very good proposal for public procurement laws in front of us. What are the most important papers of the new law? I'll start planning. Mostly when it comes to corruption in public procurement, it is first thought of regularity in the process itself. However, the fact is that the client can obtain something by respecting all procedures, but something which, by its scope and technical characteristics, exceeds its real needs, leads to unnecessary, or unsustainable spending of public procurement, public funds, but can also point to the tendency to enable certain persons to achieve an illegal property benefit. A clearly defined procedure for making up the procurement plan in Article 51 of the Law, its delivery to the Public Procurement Administration, as well as the DRI, as well as the delivery of the report on the implementation of the plan, promises that the contracting authorities will plan and obtain it more carefully than ever, respecting the principle of purpose. The contracting authority shall provide the reasons and justification for each individual procurement and the way in which it has established the estimated value of public procurement. The data operated on public procurement annually in Serbia, while on the other hand, according to the Public Procurement Authority, the amount is lower by about one billion euros, suggests that so far there has been a significant number of procurements implemented without the law being applied to them. The intensity of the new law is that all the purchases that the law has never applied to before, and for this there was no reason, will be covered by the law in the future. Also, for the first time public procurement in the field of defence and security has been arranged, in accordance with Directive 2009/81/EC. We have testified that much has been subdued under confidential procurement, although there was no reason for that. By agreeing with the competent authorities, there was finally a list of confidential procurements, which excludes doubts about the truth. Also, this is positive from the aspect of civilian security control. What brings this legal solution is also a partial centralisation, which illustrates the tendency to obtain standard goods and services in one place, using an electronic platform, which promises significant savings. Certainly, a significant place in the new law belongs to a chapter defining the prevention of corruption and conflict of interest. Through general measures to prevent corruption, the obligation of the contracting authorities to develop an internal act that will bring the procurement process closer together, the planning process, then the obligation to report corruption, as well as the ban on labour engagement with suppliers. In particular, I would like to stress the obligation of the Public Procurement Authority to bring together a plan to combat corruption in the area of public procurement and to deliver it to the Government for adoption in co-operation with the anti-corruption authorities. Also, the contracting authority whose overall estimated value of public procurement at an annual level is higher than one billion dinars is required to adopt an internal anti-corruption plan in line with the plan adopted by the Public Procurement Administration. The contracting authority is obliged to adopt an act closer to regulating the procurement procedure, and those contracting authorities whose total value of annual purchases exceeds one billion dinars, are obliged to educate a special service carrying out planning control, carrying out the procedure and public procurement. What is certainly a newspaper in this legal solution is the Institute of Civil Supervisors, whose role is to oversee public procurement of more than a billion dinars. Article 28 accurately defines all details of the work of the citizen's supervisor. Also, newspapers are also creating space for so-called. alerters, leaving space to point to corruption in the procurement process, and Article 24 provides for protection. This is certainly the first step in strengthening this institute, and what we think is that it is also necessary to pass a law on the protection of alarmers, which will more precisely arrange this area and allow better protection to alarmers. What was necessary to change in the current law is certainly a regulation that defines small-value public procurement. So far, the law has given the client the opportunity to address three addresses and that there is no obligation to make the call to the bidders on the public procurement portal. Usually, this address to three addresses was addressed to one address, and that one address was two more so - called addresses. service offers, so we got a bidder who under much more unfavourable conditions was getting that job. The new law provides for an obligation for the contracting authority to publish an invitation to submit tenders on the public procurement portal, as well as on its website. So, even with small purchases, we have the obligation of the orderer to publish the purchase on the portal, but also on his website. What I think is necessary to change this solution, where it leaves the possibility for those who do not have their own website, that they do not have the obligation to publish. I think it's good in this electronic time to oblige all economic operators to have their own website. The law creates the possibility of participation in the process much easier, without the obligation to submit some documents available on the Internet presentation, which Mr Arsic spoke of more. Also, I would point out the introduction of more flexible procedures. There I would single out a framework agreement, as well as a competitive dialogue, which the client can carry out in case the subject of public procurement is particularly complex. Also, novelty is also a dynamic procurement system, which will be possible when electronic procurement is implemented. What is certainly positive is also the register of bidders that meet the conditions for participation in the procurement process, which is run by the authority responsible for registration. There are also benefits to the existence of negative references, i.e. The negative experience that a particular client has on certain bidders will certainly benefit all contracting authorities in a future public procurement process. The contracting authority is obliged to provide evidence of a negative reference to the Public Procurement Administration, and the Authority shall establish the existence and reach a conclusion of a negative reference within ten days. This legal solution improves records and statistics to have relevant data in this area, first when we make certain decisions, but also when we change the law. The institutional framework has been significantly improved, firstly by a clear definition of the position and competence of the Public Procurement Administration, as well as by defining the composition and mode of work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. A detailed procedure for the protection of rights is envisaged, but also responsibility for the work of the Commission and the submission of the report to the National Assembly. As far as the criminal framework is concerned, I believe that the consistent implementation of this law, and hence the regulation of this area, will contribute to a high level of criminality in the public procurement process. A good step is to find a criminal offence in the area of public procurement in the amendments to the Criminal Code. At the very end, I believe that today there is a good legal solution in front of us, which has avoided the trap of insanity and formalism, which can also cause adverse effects in the process of implementing this law. The law represents a strong tool in the fight against corruption, gives a clear and positive signal to investors, increases competitiveness and efficiency, and continues to introduce order into public finances, launched by adoption of the 2013 budget. Like I said, the URS will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8841	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8842	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs and colleagues, it is good that we have one of these important laws to discuss on a proposal from the Members. Simply, that's one topic, our MP, we will have opportunities, we MPs, to make one solution that will be good, that through one debate, we can come to that solution, with the adoption of amendments, which will be the most qualitative. We have witnessed these days that the struggle of corruption began where it cares, somewhere in 2008. As far as the DSS is concerned, we support the fight against corruption, because at this point in the national interest, it is finally clear with corruption in Serbia, that it comes down to some measure that exists in all, let me say, states and environments and in Europe, and that as a state, we can say that we have done something good for the citizens, that we have saved some money and that instead of in the pockets of those who deal with public procurement, it will end up in the social, or those purposes that this country needs most. What needs to be determined at the beginning of this debate is, in the words "Transparence International", Vensana Dežera, who is the EU ambassador to Serbia, says that the degree of corruption began to grow in late 2007, and that since 2008, until now, the degree of corruption in Serbia has grown from year to year, and that is the fact, Mr Djelic, you will have the opportunity to discuss it afterwards. So that's the statement by Vensana Degera "Transparence International" and we don't make that up, that's official data that speaks of the situation in Serbia. Serbia has fallen and fallen in recent years, and we have come to the situation that we are one of the countries in the region that has the highest degree of corruption. It also says that certain foreign investors, all these years, have been bypassing and going to other countries not precisely wanting to enter the system of our public procurement and bureaucratic procedures, which they have discouraged, but at the very beginning, all those who had an interest in investing in Serbia. In recent years, politics and business have, unfortunately, become two pages of the same coin and two sides that have been complemented and made one system in which there could be no justice, no justice. We believe that this is the right moment, in the fight against corruption, to pass one such law on public procurement, which is an anti-corruption anti-corruption anti-corruption, i.e. to reduce corruption and save money. Public procurement, in itself, has always been and will always be a source in which those who do these public procurements, job-orderers, try those who do these purchases, find a hole in the law, make through that realisation, no matter how good the law, make these public procurements play out and maybe some small amount go in some direction. In this respect, neither as a party, we expect that through this law nor through any other law, as well as through this law that may not be final, that in a year we may sit here to discuss the amendments to this law, to have this assembly follow in this area of events, to implement a strategy to fight corruption, and to improve the system from year to year, to adapt it to the needs of Serbian citizens and to save as much as possible from year to year. This law is a system law. He went through a full public debate, which for every commendation by the promoter and a lot of suggestions were accepted during the public debate. This law is, let me say, the first one to convene this assembly and this authority, if it had entered the procedure and had passed, which would have been said to have served, that it had passed all the suggestions and that's good. This law is important, because public procurement takes place from 12% to 15%, depending on the year, in the GDP, or about 300 billion dinars per year. When it comes to public procurement, in addition to those 300 billion dinars that are huge funds, so, from 12% to 15% of GDP, we talk here every year, and during the budget debate, we talked about percentages -- 1%, 2%, 3% of GDP, we see how much funding goes to public procurement only and how significant savings would be in some percentage of public procurement, if corruption was reduced, how sensitive it would be to Serbia's budget and Serbian citizens. If it takes account of how many social contributions and how much funding it takes to increase social spending, where it is, perhaps, 1% savings from GDP through public procurement, to less go into the private pockets of those doing jobs and doing jobs, and that would be 100% increase in social spending in Serbia. This is something that we here in the Assembly need to be aware of and that the aim of passing this law is to make that savings, this surplus of funds that will remain available to the citizens of Serbia, for those needs for which we, as the Assembly, plead and in the way the government proposes. In public procurement, we have two kinds of problems. The first problem is the public procurement plan, i.e. the overallity of the needs that certain ministries show for public procurement. Here we come to the situation that the state is not acting as a thrift this year and understands the conditions of the crisis it is in, but there are still examples where the state behaves as, somewhat, some boastful heir. We have the Ratel case, where 60,000 euros per month are paid to rent a business space, and it's taken from a private person, by a private firm, as if there's no space owned by a state that corresponds to gentlemen from Ratel. We have a situation that funds have been allocated to build a basketball hall in Belgrade. Does Belgrade need another basketball hall? That, worth 155 million dinars, new cars from the Department of Joint Affairs are being purchased. So these aren't the things that are most needed in times of crisis, when citizens who live on social aid and social giving barely make ends meet, when the help for children and children's allowances at the level of two or three thousand dinars, when there's not enough to buy hell of diapers and hell of wet wipes, we're going to build another basketball hall in Belgrade and gentlemen from Ratela need to pay 60,000 euros a month to rent a business space, because, to God, nothing in Serbia fits them, except that space they found, and the state of Serbia doesn't have a single office in which they could settle. Here we are talking about the problem of the overallity of certain things that the state is getting, and the other problem we have is how to prevent abuses in public procurement. This is what today is about this debate of ours and the way that we as MPs can contribute to making a legal solution, which is here on a proposal from the MPs, the better. This law on public procurement represents a serious shift in relation to the existing law. There are plenty of new and quality solutions. What I'd like to mention as a good solution is that we have a much better definition of the job orderer, that the government is going to make a list of the clients, which is very good, that we all know at the beginning of the year which are legal entities, which are state firms, which are obliged by the authorities to carry out the procurement process. That's what the government will bring at the beginning of the year, which is very good. Also, what's very important is that there will be less formalism when you refuse offers. So far, since, to say the least, some tenders have been set up for various performers, offers have been rejected because of the most pointless things. Literally, because of one comma, because of one letter, because of one number left out, tenders were cancelled. It was a function of strict formalism. At that time, a term is introduced into the law – significant supply shortages and there is less formalism when the offer is rejected. So the rejection of the offer will only come down to essential shortcomings, which is very good and very good quality. We had a large number of offers that were rejected not because of the essential shortcomings, but because someone had found a point, or tried to find some point that was missing, so that the offer would be rejected and the one to whom the offer was intended. The transparency of proceedings is increasing, which is very important in this law. We have a more restrictive definition, an annexation of the contract, which Mr. Arsic was already talking about, so instead of 25% of the additional works based on one contract, which we have so far been working on, he will come to 15% and he will be aware that within two years of the conclusion of the contract. Now we have a case that there are contracts that are in place for 20 years, and that are complemented every year by a new 25% over the year, which, you will admit, is totally unacceptable and not logical, and that is one situation that exists. Of course, this law is an opportunity to stop such a practice. So we have a public procurement arrangement of small value, a much more transparent procedure. A portal from the Public Procurement Authority that will allow for full insight into all public procurement. It'll be much more precise procedure, more transparent, with much more control than it's ever been before. A more precise definition of the urgency of the procedure is also introduced, because so far, as we have had insight into data, 20% of all public procurement in Serbia has been carried out by an urgent procedure, as many have just used an emergency procedure to abuse public procurement procedures, to show that something is urgent, so that they can carry out an emergency procedure that is not transparent, which allows the job to be installed. With this law and through the amendments, we as a parliamentary group, we will offer proposals on how to define this urgency, how to bring it into practice so that it cannot be misused. It is amazing to me that 20% of Serbian procurement is done by emergency procedure. This only speaks of the degree in which holes were found in the existing law so that those who did public procurement could public procurement to those with whom they had a previous agreement. So through the amendments, we're going to make a proposal and a solution to this situation. The experience we have for public procurement suggests that those who conduct public procurement are trying to find a hole in this law to kind of abuse this law. This law leaves an opportunity to control it. We must, and the government that will be most responsible for implementing this law, that through the mechanisms of control set up by this law, it is possible to carry out the maximum control of public procurement procedures. This law, as I said, is one of the laws needed to establish a fight against corruption, in order to reduce corruption in the procurement process. He's not enough to fight corruption. There are competent state authorities doing their job. The Democratic Party of Serbia supports that. What's important is that this law reduces corruption in public procurement. Whether the savings will be, as Parliament's president said, 70 billion in the first year, I don't know, but to be 40 or 50 is already a large amount that can be shifted to other costs and not to end up in the pockets of some others, but to end up in the RS budget where they belong. What we want to say as a party is that this law, in addition to all the benefits it has, as we have said, is significant progress in relation to the existing law, offers a lot of opportunities to deal with abuses and corruption of public procurement, that there are a number of new solutions that will be able to help public procurement be implemented much more transparently and more responsible than before, there are also its shortcomings. I'd like to say a few words about these shortcomings. There are a number of unspeakable institutes that have obviously been made in good faith, but are not fully defined by the jurisdiction and obligations of these institutes. We have a civilian high-procurement supervisor, where one member speaks of the duties of that supervisor, where it is said to be his final range, whether it is an organization or an individual who is an expert in the area, that he can inform the media and send information to the competent authorities. A citizen's supervisor, if we go to this solution, must have opportunities, if appointed by the Public Procurement Administration in agreement with the contracting authority, to seriously and responsibly start a business, that his work is not to address the public in his observations in the public procurement process, but must be given concrete authority, not only to inform the competent state authorities, but to have some concrete solution and to be able to influence the procedure itself of granting a job by the contracting authorities to the contractor. It is an institute that exists in some countries in the environment, specifically in Slovenia. He has shown himself in some situations as good and in some bad. Sure, that part's not bad, but it needs to be done. We have a competitive dialogue. This is a solution that allows the job manager to choose a bidder through one dialogue for potential perpetrators without too much public. I don't know how much that will work in our capabilities. I talked to my colleagues from Slovenia where this work exists, who said that the results of this work in Slovenia are quite thin and that we should consider how this mechanism will be implemented in Serbia. It leaves the possibility for certain abuses, an incomplete degree of control and should be kept in mind whether to the end to go with that solution in our law or to let those procedures that are transparent, public, and also in accordance with this law, whether it is a restrictive procedure or open, replace competitive dialogue. What is a complete astonishment for us is the authority of the Republic Commission to conduct the procedure in the first degree. The Republic Commission is a very important body with very important competences under this law and it will be a huge body that will oversee public procurement in Serbia as a cap, and that is good. One thing is that we have a Republic Commission which decides on a request for the protection of the rights of the bidder and within the same Republic Commission there is an offence greater which makes a decision in the first degree by violation. They have the office of the Criminal Court. Two decisions shall be taken within the same authority. In fact, in our opinion, this is not in line with the law, because it cannot be made within the same body that one will later complain about within that same organ. According to us, this solution is not in accordance with the law, and it is necessary to see that the criminal proceedings are left to the Court of Justice, and that the Criminal Court be the first degree of offence, and in the second authority to decide the same about the offence, that the Council of the Criminal Court decides on the second paragraph. We think this solution to one organ being solved in two degrees is totally unacceptable. We had a similar case during the Law on the High Council of Justice, where the Constitutional Court brought down such a solution as existed under the previous law, where the High Council of Justice decided on the choice of judges and after a constitutional appeal filed by the Constitutional Court as objections to their decision and decided on those objections, that is, by constitutional appeals. That solution has fallen. Through the amendments, we have suggested to the Proposer that he consider whether he will stay on this or perhaps leave it to the Criminal Court to do so. I would like to point out the authority of the members of the Republic Commission relating to Article 161 which, according to us, goes beyond the jurisdiction of the Republic Commission and goes first and foremost into the jurisdiction of the police. I don't know how much this solution is in accordance with the Constitution. I'm sorry Mr. Cvian as a kind of lawyer isn't here to exchange views. It stands - a member of the Republic Commission who exercises control has been authorised to carry out a review, copy documents relating to public procurement, seal business premises and documents during controls, taking statements from representatives, contracting authorities and other employees from the contracting authorities. If a special written statement is required, a time limit will be set for the submission of a statement to the Republic of the Commission. These are fishing rooms, copying documents, which falls under the jurisdiction of either the financial police or the police. The restriction on freedom of use of business rooms, apartment, is about rights to housing. In the Constitution it is a category that is recognised, but the restriction can only be based on a court ruling. (President: Time. ) We believe that this solution comes out of this law and that it gives, I end in a minute, to members of the Republic Commission a solution that is not in accordance with the Constitution, because they can only, on the basis of a judicial decision, prey, seal and make statements. The members of the Republic Commission themselves are neither judges, nor cops, nor financial officers, nor have the court decided to do this. We have proposed a solution for this member. We need to think about all these solutions and make one law that will be in line with our country's legal system, with the Law of Infringements, with the functioning of other state authorities, and make the best possible solution that will provide an adequate framework for public procurement to be used as little as possible in the form of corruption and to save as much money as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8843	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8844	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have before us an important law. I have this freedom to remind you that ten years ago I had, on behalf of the then coalition in power, the honor of defending the first law on public procurement in our country's history. It was ten years ago and until then our country had no regulation in that area at all. By then, any state authority could buy by its own means, there were no forms. The way the first law began, that I actually what justified its existence, there were significant savings. As we hear today that this new law will solve everything, I must warn you, to tell you that it is not by chance that highly developed countries and countries in transition have become new members of the EU, and today they are cougaring with this topic. It's simply, to a little bit, a constant effort to better regulate very complex matter, to introduce new technology. There are traces here in terms of electronic portal applications, to ensure greater competitiveness, transparency, legality and to ensure a good price for citizens. It's the most important thing in times of crisis like this that affects the world. In 2004, there was a change in that first law. I have to say, they were in the direction of reducing transparency. What marked that change in law is that police were largely excluded from its application. That was bad. In 2008, there was a new law that wanted to ensure progress. It was, but we have to admit, openly, that in the past few years, the percentage of those procedures, which have not been conducted by a normal open tender institute, i.e. Competitions between several factors that wanted to offer their goods and services have increased. That is why the DS proposed the law in January of this year and the law entered the procedure. Unfortunately, the new majority and the government have withdrawn this law. It contains a large number of solutions that are still being proposed today. Now no one here has the right to intellectual property of the proposed solutions, but I will express my satisfaction on behalf of the DS because of the fact that a large number of innovations we proposed in January have found their way in this bill. That's why I'd like to start with a brief review of the state of public procurement and say what I think is good in this bill, I hope you won't be surprised, and point out its inadequacies and finally put one proposal on behalf of the DS that I expect will be supported, not only by other opposition parties, but also by the majority that exists today in this high house. We have, thanks to the existence of regulation on public procurement, progress in our country. It's not a fact that we have public procurement that produces corruption. The fact that we have a law on public procurement is actually what makes it possible for us to determine what is being implemented under the law and what provides for saving the other one. It is not disputed and we all know well, as citizens, and also as MPs, that there have been attempts, unfortunately, some successful ones, that the existing system of public procurement is being ridiculed, that they are being set up, as they say in the people, certain procedures, and it is good that here the legislator is trying to propose a number of mechanisms for such cases to be present as little as possible. It is not good that almost a third of the public procurement today does not go according to normal procedures and is not enough. We proposed in January of this year that it be put on the road. It's not good that there were more small purchases, especially in the area of construction. It happened that one number of procedures would end by defeating someone with the lowest price, and then, through annexes, which would appear several times for a significant amount of these works, the whole process would lead to absurdity. If things were to be looked at in total size, there would be no best solution for our citizens. There are elements in this proposal that we proposed in January of this year. That's good. There's an obligation to publish on the site, on the portal, everything. The basis for electronic procurement is created. That's good. It takes the opportunity to save on paper, but above all everyone at any point in our country, in the world, is immediately informed of the possibilities to compete for public procurement in our country. It is good that for the first time an ecological criterion and a criterion of energy efficiency is introduced. It is true that public procurement, as a lever that our country has, must be used to advance on these two major ecological and energy plans. It's a good thing all the small public procurement is being published, because it's a public secret that there have been some abuses in that domain. Like what we suggested in January of the month, for the first time, I agree with my colleagues from the DSS, there are different visions, but it is unequivocally good, as we suggested in January of the month, to at least have partial centralisation of public procurement. It's not good, it's not normal, it's unexplainable that the same thing the state pays at a price that can be up to four times higher in one part of the state, when compared to the best price that has been achieved in another public procurement process in another part of our country. That's why you don't need to run away from centralization. It must be ensured that it does not lead to suspension of the supply of the State i.e. Our citizens in sensitive elements, first of all I mean drugs, I mean what is necessary for the state to function. Of course, there is a need to ensure that significant savings are made in this way. There's a lot of what you would suggest to do differently. The promoter told us earlier, we also heard the president of the National Assembly, who said that in this way, any possibility of anyone agreeing, that everything would go on an open call, and to competition. LDP colleagues talked about it, so what's article 36? What is a negotiation procedure without publishing calls for tenders? That institute is preserved. It's not good. When we look at Article 7 that exempts from the application of this law a number of goods or needs, it is incomprehensible, and therefore DS has made appropriate amendments, that all of a sudden everything about the production of banknotes, on the one hand, or security correct documents, and that is why we are talking about the huge markets of ID cards or passports, it is suddenly proposed that this very important element be completely excluded from the scope of this law. For that, honourable MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, there is no explanation. This is a domain where there are a large number of domestic and foreign bidders, who routinely respond to international tenders in that domain. It's not true that in this way a secret will be given, the way we protect our ID cards, passports, and the way someone can after that forge bills, that's not true. In terms of security, and then in concrete solutions, of course, what must remain secret remains secret and is not in any way the subject of public procurement. That is why we expect this home to accept our amendment in that domain and rule out this exclusion and return the making of bills, passports, ID cards into the domain of public competition. There's no reason it shouldn't be like that. It is not good that the member who defines the negotiation without publication is contained in the same amount. I think we can take a step further today in that domain. We welcome the fact that so-called. The annexation of the assigned job is reduced to a much smaller level. We don't understand why we went from 25% to 15%. Therefore, the DS proposed an amendment, and I expect my colleagues to support it, that it should be reduced to 10%, because it is true that sometimes it is not possible to predict everything, but it is very important that both bidders and orderlys get used to including in public procurement the element of risk that always exists, and it is much better to then be included in the public procurement process itself, in the offer of the fact that there is this risk than that we all collectively pretend there is no one, so that we open this hole in the law, that someone can later, without additional competition to get an additional job. It's an aspect, and we suggest that it be reduced to 10%. But there's another aspect that I haven't heard at the moment when the promoter spoke, and neither in this text, it's very important that, if there are extensions of these works, to be at the same price, not at different prices, than what was originally given, because it's a public secret, it exists and there's a lot of evidence that there has been an abuse of this possibility in law, that someone who is attractive in that basic procedure, and then, under great signs, is compensated in an annex by offering a much higher price for the same good and the same services. Therefore, the DS has proposed an amendment to which, if it comes in this reduced volume of additional works, that it cannot be at a different price, it can be lower, but it cannot be greater than that of the original procedure carried out through public competition. I also want to say that, as far as DS is concerned, we believe and there have been few words about it this morning, it is extremely important that people present in both the Commission and the Public Procurement Administration have enough experience. It is true that in 2002, when the law was first proposed, we did not have many people experienced in this domain, but here we are ten years later. Why are the conditions we have proposed in this law just a little stricter than what exists in the existing law? That is why we have proposed an amendment, I hope that you will support it, that the professional conditions we have, above all the experience in the domain, be significant on the part of those who will be in the board members, and in particular the Commission for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers. We have one question here, maybe it's here in case of oversight, but it's a little odd that, as far as the commission is concerned, it's predicting in this law to go to the selection of new ones, and as far as the administration whose work is changing a lot, there's no new competition for the director. I think it would be good if, if you were already going to the new commission, you were going to the new administration, because it's important that it be implemented in a transparent way. It would be a paradox if, in the case of the Public Procurement Authority, it wasn't one of the best public competitions and we had the opportunity to consider maybe some new personnel in that domain. I think there are elements here that are on the verge of not saying demagogy, but there's a lot of declarative here in the fight against corruption. We have to fight corruption, but we have to think the same way in which these actions will be carried out. Here we have a new obligation of the one who makes public procurements, which is that this person, that institution, is obliged to ensure competitiveness, i.e. that she is obliged to provide several offers, even where no one or any of the bidders answer. We think that transparency in the process, openness, the fact that everything is electronic now, that's all we have to ensure that anyone who wants to offer goods and services can do it, but after that there is an additional obligation for someone who is the only one who is obliged to implement it properly, by law, to have an additional obligation to show up at least two or three firms, that's something that, knowing all of us how things work, will lead to either cancelling the organisation of some public procurement or to some financing of competition where there is no competition. That is why we have offered certain formulas that are in line with the spirit of what must be in the Public Procurement Act, but do not go any further. In the end, I want to look at the economic effects of this law. We've heard over the past few months that this law is like some magical ingredient that will make sure that all of a sudden there's an extremely great amount of savings for our citizens. I think it would be much more instructive if we didn't exchange big numbers so abstractly. Therefore, the DS proposed an amendment that is an amendment of goodwill, an amendment that goes towards what the legislators of this law have said, above all, I mean the SNS that has been saying over the past months that the law they are going to propose, here it is today before us, will ensure that on an annual level, we heard how much more this morning and yesterday on the side of the National Assembly and Proposer a few minutes ago, that we will have savings from 600m euros to a billion euros. In order not only to remain on the declaration, we have proposed an amendment to which, for the next year by the end of January, when, as we expect, this law is passed, that this House propose to amend and supplement the Budget Law by the end of January, so-called. The rebalancing, which the DS will vote on, which will ensure that items for the purchase of goods and services of various contracting entities are reduced by that figure, should not be a billion that you have talked about, let's start with 600m euros, a budget rebalance where the item per item will be reduced in total, and items for the purchase of goods and services for 600m euros, and that that money would not somehow disappear, to form a budget fund in the division of the finance ministry, where those 600m euros will be located. It's very simple. We suggest that the finance minister come to this house every quarter and see if these announced savings are realised or not. If they're realized, what's the cost of that savings? The Democratic Party has proposed that this goes primarily for families, pregnant women, for those who are most difficult, for social policies, for infrastructure, for support for economy and agriculture. As you can see, there's no controversy here, but we just want, when it's talked to the public so much about the effect of a law, we suggest that it be checked in practice and that our citizens might in this way return a little more trust in what is said in this home and on the part of politicians, that when someone says really so often that the savings will be 600 million euros, that we have a mechanism, here it is, as someone experienced in public finances, I suggested it and the DS, I repeat, will vote for the budget rebalancing that provides this verification of what this law needs to implement, which is a savings of 600 million euros. If you succeed next year, you who now hold power, to cut costs by 600m euros, we will congratulate you on that. But if you fail, I think we'll see that, unfortunately, it was primarily a marketing, political trick here, without having anything to do with what's a real possibility and reality in our country. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8845	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, to thank Mr Djelic for the support he has given for this law, because, unlike the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS parliamentary group sent a similar law in February 2011 as a proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement. I don't mind if in January, the government of the Republic of Serbia sent a similar law, based on the observation of the SNS, to the official procedure and adopted as its official proposal addressed to the Republika Srpska Assembly. Also, the gentleman who spoke before me as former minister, former Deputy Prime Minister, knows that the real effects of the law are expected when he enters full application, when all the authorities, all the provisions of the law, enter into one complete application. Then we can expect the effects of one of these laws. I don't think it will be necessary to make a special budget split where savings from the Republic of Serbia's budget are based on the application of the new Public Procurement Act, for the reason that each next budget will be planned, whether according to the Budget Law, whether under the Rebalance Act for 2013, or under the Budget Act for 2014. So these provisions of the law that we now need to declare will be defined in those values and based on those experiences that we have gained by applying one of these laws. Anyway, it's not enough just to have a good will when the law is written. Promises from 600m to a billion euros have saved expectations, unlike promises for 200,000 new jobs, so 200,000 people have lost their jobs. That's a big difference between SNS and DS. I am fully convinced that it will be a long time before these differences between you and me reach you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8847	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8848	Mr Arsic, I didn't expect you to admit so quickly that out of these 600m euros in savings there is obviously nothing. Here you are today a few minutes after your announcements and are already kneeling to your knees. The president of this house said yesterday -- let's go, 600m euros in savings. We hear from you that you may now be expected to save and now we hear that you are not ready to accept a very simple mechanism, but you are trying to hide it behind some inability to establish mechanisms, that all of this is in some continuum, that we need to see what's going to happen. Mr. Arsic, the citizens expect us to fulfill what we stand for. Did DS fill out everything? Today we are in opposition, the citizens have said theirs. Today we expect you and ask you to accept this mechanism or perhaps a little different from what we have suggested here, to show that you have been telling the truth. Come on, a little courage, get in the dialogue and accept this mechanism. You have the option, if you don't want to build a budget fund, so that the 600m euros are spent on something else, no problem, suggest, as I understand that you wanted to suggest that we will have a rebalance where the budget will be reduced by 600m euros, so cut taxes so much. Reduce, like you didn't want, VAT on baby equipment. Ensure that women who maintain pregnancy have 100% of their salary. There's a lot we can do with reduced taxes, but if you don't want to accept any mechanism that will show in a concrete life that this law meets your promise or not, there's no other, you didn't even believe what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8849	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8850	And I believe what I'm saying and I'm watching what I'm saying, so I filed a single amendment when Serbia was in a much better financial situation, to cut the tax on goods and services. When you were Minister, I submitted an amendment to free the baby's equipment from paying taxes on goods and services. That's when you said no. (Božidar Djelic, from the place: Why didn't you cancel the VAT? ) Because for the past four years, you have brought the state into such a financial state that literally no more tax exemption can be made except for what has been done with the last amendments and additions to the law. You know it and how well you know it. The difference between us and you is that we don't want to brag about the fact that some money from the budget is being cut off from the savings. The fact that this law will save, also says one other promise, that one part will be investments, and the other part of the subsidy in agriculture. We don't mind, when the law begins to produce results, when we see the amount of savings, we do a rebalancing of the 2013 Budget Law and re-scheduling. What's the problem? Why isn't it done now? Because we wanted a good law, as you have submitted amendments, as this law did not receive an emergency procedure in the procedure, but regularly, that you have enough time to read, to write amendments and make remarks. Even if you want, the door has always been open to you to say that in direct communication outside this congregation pay phone. You've decided to write the amendments. It's your form of political struggle and I don't mind. Therefore, in order to be as good as possible, there is no budget law for 2013. We wanted to pass a good law with a public hearing that lasted four months. I wish the laws had been passed like that. This is how we now have consequences that we have to correct with various legal solutions. What hasn't been saved in these past four years, even more, are the funds that have gone free. It's something we can't get back. Let's at least try to fix the situation in our finances and the way the funds from Serbia's budget are spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8851	Thank you. Mr. Djelic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8852	I'm a little lost now, Mr. Arsic. You said you'd invest your savings in agriculture and business. Now I understand that you will support the DS amendment. I congratulate you on that, because I think that's how we put in place a mechanism, where, instead of just talking about some things, we have a reality check. That is why I expect that in further discussion we will further develop one mechanism. We have a lot of understanding for the fact that some of the new institutes are yet to be stalked. We can talk about it that maybe it doesn't start on January 31st, as we suggested, but I couldn't figure out that it starts much later than February or March of the month, because we heard that you have a lot of things prepared, about fast-track offices, but we're still expecting one of your proposals in Belgrade. It's true that the VAT on the baby's equipment hasn't been lifted, but neither have you. And not only that, you've increased the VAT. Watch how things go fast. We have this session and you're talking about the laws being passed slowly and having a debate. We have the Energy Act, a system law adopted by the government on Thursday, and we have to discuss it today. (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: Changes and Supplements. ) Very important changes and additions that change the full way of operating investment in this key domain for our country. And I didn't, we heard a few weeks ago that one of the essential things about next year's budget, which we were just talking about, is there won't be any new borrowings on the liquidity of public enterprises. Look at the surprises, here this week, three weeks later, we have to go to Galenika and JAT and I still don't know what, for Srbiagas, to secure additional liquidity. Citizens know how to punish. The DS knows what it means, but be assured that you can transfer everything to a past, a time of your responsibility and how it comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8853	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8854	Mr. Djelic, we're not running away from responsibility. I am quite sure that in Serbia it will be much better to live in a year and a half or two, than now, because it will be enough that only this property that has been acquired by crime in the past four years will be returned to the state, believe me. We're perfectly calm here. We're not worried about that at all. As for Galenika, JAT, etc., I agree that we are responsible for those decisions we make, but also, when you attack us, just a few months after we start to exercise power, say at least where those debts come from, both in Galennica and in JAT.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-12-24-0.u8855	Thank you. This ends for today. We continue our work on Wednesday, December 26, 2012, at 9.00 p.m.
