ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 114 MPs attend the meeting, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 114 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Borislav Pelevic, Miroslav Petkovic, Dusica Močev, Bojana Bozanic, Slobodan Veličkovići Jelena Mijatovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by a representative of the proposing Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic, governor of the National Bank of Serbia. We continue to work and move on the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda - PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND APPLICATION OF THE LAWS ON THE PEOPLE'S BANK OF SRBJE You have received amendments submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Radojko Obradović, Gordana Čomić, Marijan Rističević, Ivan Jovanovic, Zlata Djerić, Milica Delević, Bozidar Djelic, Mirko Cvetković, Jovan Palalić, Milos Aligrudić and Srdjan Miković, as well as amendments that are based on Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly submitted to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the opinion of the National Bank of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4118	Ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed this amendment since the said article is talking about controlling and protecting the rights of users of financial services. Since there are also financial organisations in our market dealing with financial services that are not registered, this amendment made me want the NBS obliged to ban the work of such companies that are not authorised, contrary to Article 5. Bank law, financial services. The Bank Act in Article 5 literally writes – no one but the Bank can deal with receiving deposits, no one but the Bank can deal with credit and payment cards unless it is authorised by law. As proof that there are financial service providers that are not registered under the Banks Act and deal with it, I will specify "Diners Club Belgrade". My question for the governor of the National Bank is – who is in control of the "Diners Club of Belgrade", which issues payments and credit cards, in my opinion contrary to Article 5. The law on banks? So, the former government, the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, has made it possible and it is possible to commit more abuses. In this case I'm talking about, there's no revision, there's no mandatory reserve, there's no law on the prevention of money laundering, there's no control of the level of limits allowed by payment card, there's no control over the number of payment cards that's being put into circulation. So, according to the information I have, "Diners Club Belgrade" completely unauthorizedly broadcasts payment cards, deals with the issue of credit, and since they are not registered, that they are not a bank, are not even subject to NBS control, that I am not talking about that there are reasonable doubts that if what occurred in some banks arises, that there may be huge damages that can be done to traders, because if that company fails, in which case all those who gave the goods will not be charged, they will not be able to charge it because no one is in charge of that control, since they are not the bank, since there is no insurance. So my question is concrete – who will exercise control in these cases and who will ban the work of such financial service providers and who will protect the rights of those who use these financial services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4119	Thank you. The word is Dr. Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4120	This problem could be addressed by one who deals with the Legal Registering Agency, because the protection of the rights and interests of users of services provided by such institutions, if they provide them, simply cannot be in the jurisdiction of the National Bank, because it deals under the law with its function, where only those who exercise authority over these tasks, which are banks, insurance companies, voluntary pension funds, etc., and this kind of organisation that does not fall under the jurisdiction of the National Bank cannot be subject to control by the National Bank, but by some other institutions, but is not mine to share tasks with others. In any case, it is necessary to review their registration and the pursuit of this activity which, in your words, may be harmful.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4121	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The National Bank of Serbia and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Radojko Obradovic answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4122	Thank you, Mr. President. We had a debate on Thursday in principle. Today we discuss in detail. The attitude to amend this law was made Thursday. Today, my colleagues and I from the DSS parliamentary group will explain our amendments and explain why these changes would be necessary. Article 6, i.e. Article 2 of the amendment and addition of the National Bank Act, amends the current Article 6. There has been a procedure so far that the most important act, in addition to the law governing the work of the NBS, is the most important internal act of the NBS Statute. The procedure for the adoption of the Statute is that the Executive Board of Governors, Vice-Governors and Director of the Control Board, shall make a proposal for a statue, shall forward it to the NBS Council and the Council of the NBS shall adopt it, and thereafter come to the Assembly for confirmation. The confirmation means that the debate is opened, that the MPs are considering the solutions provided for in the Statute and that the debate ends with a vote. The National Assembly, or MPs, can only vote for or against, and cannot change any of the only solutions provided for in the Statute. We proposed that this solution remain, and the NBS proposed to exclude the National Assembly from the process of adopting the Statute and the process of validation, that the Statute be adopted by the Board of Governors on a proposal from the Executive Board. The explanation of why our amendment is rejected is as follows – the amendment is not accepted because it has been estimated that the whole solution under which the NBS has its Statute, since the authorities of the NBS whose members have been elected by the National Assembly are involved, so there is no need for the Statute to be confirmed by the National Assembly. If we were to adopt this solution, that is, if all those elected by the National Assembly could still bring forth a number of acts, then we need to take down the next item of the agenda. Then why are we confirming the Statute of the Energy Agency? Then why are we confirming a number of other acts? The second thing, it doesn't say that if the National Assembly chose someone, that the element of control is too high. Let's just think of the previous Council's calling and think of the governor. It seems to me that in this assembly session in the last few months, the most talk was about NBS, about the governor and the banking sector. The governor of the NBS, Mr. Šoštic, whose work we had numerous objections, had the full support of the Council. All that we heard, and the destruction of the banking sector, was followed by the full consent of the Board of Governors. It is obvious that the steps and the fact that the congregation chose them, both of them, did not help the public to know all the details of their work. It seems to me that accepting such a solution leads, or it will result in two important things. One thing is that, referring to this solution, the National Assembly must be consistent and apply this principle to all those independent bodies. For example, the National Assembly brings and confirms Rules of Procedure of the DRI, not even the Statute, but the Rules of Procedure, just so that it may point to certain shortcomings. As for the independence of the NBS, it is not achieved by such a solution. The National Assembly shall in no way endanger the independence and work of the NBS by confirming the Statute of the NBS at the session. On the contrary, I think that by confirming the Statute and opening the debate, by voting for the Statute, only the stronger and control functions of the National Assembly and by strengthening the relationship between the National Assembly and such an important body as the NBS. I'm just asking that this time, these two minutes, count from the time of my authorised representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4123	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4124	Thank you. Mr. President, the Honorable Governor or Governor, as you wish, colleagues and colleagues, I think this member of the Amendment to the NBS Act is the essence of these changes. We need to give a little more attention here. It is absolutely clear that in early August the law was changed to change the governor. Right? That's right. That's what happened. We don't want to be crazy. Then we talked about it being bad, that it was endangering the independence of the NBS, that you would quickly come to the assembly with amendments to that law, and it happened again. After a negative attitude in the European Commission's progress report, we came here and what did we get? Except for what you call them, legal-technical changes and editorials, whatever that means, not to say lecturing, this is the essence. In August, you said that the NBS Statute would be confirmed in the Assembly, and today there is no such thing. I think that's the best proof of what you wanted with this law and what happened in those 100 days. Somehow this story about the NBS Act and the governor's shift, and we're not voting on the previous one, so someone doesn't think we're defending him, is the best sign of the tampering in your first 100 days. That's why we absolutely think the amendment of a colleague from the DSS is in place. We haven't given amendments because we've been against that law since the beginning, and something that the coat of arms is born doesn't make the time right, so it didn't make sense to fix it. If you remain in your position to preserve the independence of the NBS, then there is no reason why we in the Assembly do not confirm the Statute. That fact that we chose the Council, so that we don't have to discuss what he's bringing as an act to discuss, so we've chosen the government, so we're discussing the laws that the government is proposing. I think that, without saying that this practice with other regulatory bodies and agencies is similar and has such practices, I think you should think about it one more time. I do not see any danger, I say, to you in the NBS or your authority in the NBS, if the Statute appears before the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4125	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4126	President of the Assembly, the esteemed governor, control does not endanger the independence of any institution. First of all, we leave, and especially not giving consent to the Statute. I do not see that there should be any fear in the NBS of the control that parliament has and thus give consent to the Statute that will propose the Council. As far as we're concerned, we think you should adopt our amendment and keep it as it is now in law. It's just that there's one thing that's not clear to me as an MP. Three months ago, you convinced us that we should accept amendments to the NBS Act, which states that the National Assembly gives consent. As it was in your proposal, it is natural, what is more natural than the right of the Assembly to give consent to the Statute of the NBS? These were the words of the legislator, and you were then the head of the parliamentary group, or party that proposed this law. I, as a Parliamentarian, who is extremely well-intentioned in this assembly, has access to all the proposals and the authorities and the opposition, and I always intend to seek what is good, and I am looking for some argument for every solution that exists, here I simply don't understand it. Three months ago, something was the natural right of the Assembly, which stems from the very nature of the Assembly, to regulate the legislative framework of the state in which we live, the states of Serbia, and now it is no longer a natural right, but a natural law of the NBS Council. It's also an interesting argument that you've given, that we're choosing the Council, and that the Council is going to choose that, that's just not the way it is. The National Assembly especially in the situation where we have a major problem in the banking sector, the National Assembly must give that part of the right to give consent to the Statute, which the Council will adopt and to the NBS, and if it may have some greater importance in the very system of the Serbian state itself as an authority and as a body, we should give consent to the Statute as well as to the other regulatory bodies, which this assembly chooses, on which the Statute and the work of the Assembly decides. Debtaries explain to us – what has changed in three months since you as head of the parliamentary group, who has proposed amendments to the NBS Act, suggested that it is the natural right of the Assembly to adopt, to give consent to the Statute, and that now that you are at the head of the NBS, you suggest the second? What do you think is a better solution? Then why was that solution better at that point, and why is this solution better now? Is this procedure needed and perhaps a little longer at this point something that the brakes prevent the work of the NBS, or do you simply think that this procedure is unnecessary and that it is sufficient for the Council to give? I'm interested in hearing from you an explanation for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4127	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4128	It's like this. I won't say it again, but I'll give all my colleagues an answer. From 2001 to 2012, sometimes when many of you were in power, there was a legal situation in the opposition that the statute was adopted or not adopted in the Assembly. Simply, there were both practices. I'm not going to tie that up, or compare it when someone was in power, and you have to admit that some things match, that two different actions are related to many people who talk about it. As far as I'm concerned, now that I'm in a position to come to the Assembly and to propose that change, since there is one and another practice, since it has been applied to the RS and one and another practice, I tend to come and ask to change that the statute does not have to come to consent in the Assembly because it is proposed and given the final word by those elected by the Assembly and thus the principle of responsibility of an independent body, but rather and above all, and I am not at all embarrassed to say so directly and publicly, because it is the practice in the EU and the position of the European Central Bank that those central banks that are on the path of accession to the EU should not have legal solutions by which anyone can direct the NB decisions, can cancel the decisions of the NB or delay the decision of the central banks, because even at a time when it has been approved could not be changed, but it could be delayed by reason that we do not make a difference with this kind of reason that we do so. That's all philosophy on this subject. I will no longer comment on this adoption of the statutes, not by its approval in the National Assembly, but by the Council in the National Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4129	National MP Radojko Obradovic, replica. You're also right as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4130	The solution you suggested three months ago has been accepted as a good solution. I agree that we can go back two, three, four, five as many years as you want, but I'm not sure that going back together is going to get us all on the right track and we're all going to be able to come back long enough to draw the right conclusions. To go back 20 years, I'm afraid my colleague Skundric would have different views. It's just a matter of how long we go back. Three months ago, you convinced us that this was a good solution. We accepted your argument three months ago. Three months later, we adopt a completely different solution with an argument that this solution is better. NB independence is provided in many ways. Writing in the statute isn't enough. Writing in law isn't enough. And you and I both know the political impact on the NB was years ago, even though the NB was a declared independent institution. It seems to me that the political impact on the NB is far greater if the vice governors are elected in this room than if the statute is confirmed in this room. It seems to me that a solution with the election of a vice governor, the director of the administration is far more dangerous to the independence of the NB than the solution to the statute to be confirmed here.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4131	Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4132	You say the Council adopts the statutes. The council, as far as I know, isn't made up of lawyers or of people who are professional in that area. They're people who deal with the economy. Finally, the statutes are written by people who are lawyers, as well as in all other cases where the main legislators are in finance ministries, social protection for those who write laws mostly lawyers. That's probably the way it is in the NB. There is a legal sector that prepares laws, which deals with legislation and amendments to regulations. The Council adopts the statutes. The statute adopts a body that is made up of people who are not lawyers, whose profession is not, so that's one thing we have to realize. If your observation is that the Assembly can make it difficult by adopting the statutes and thus to disable the work of the NBS you should have put the deadline to the National Assembly within 30 days after the NB delivers the draft statutes must give consent, or if it does not give consent within that time period, it is considered a silence of the administration or silence of the Assembly, however you wish, that consent is given and that it is a positive agreement. It could have been a solution, and it would have eliminated any danger that someone was trying to interfere with the work of the NBS. Three months ago, we praised the solution to adopt the statute, to give consent to the NBS statute in the Serbian Parliament. At this point, one argument you have is that it is not in the EU countries. I agree. Many solutions in EU countries are of quality and should be implemented. Only Serbia with the situation it has in our banking sector, which should be more orderly and that we need to bring closer to EU countries, where there is greater control than in Serbia, but it is Parliament's control that still needs to exist in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4133	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4134	I'll be done in a second. If we had control of parliament in the earlier period, maybe we wouldn't have had the Agrobank, maybe we wouldn't have had the Development Bank, maybe the Development Bank would have done better business, not that we should be giving extra funding every year, or maybe the Diners Club... I don't see that the problem is that the Assembly gives consent and it won't endanger the independence of the NB at all, as it is not in the previous period, as it is not in our case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4135	National MP Zoran Ostojic uses the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4136	A number of remarks by the European Commission and the IMF were passed in early August, and I think this is about one thing that citizens need to say. These remarks relate to the independence of the NB because the changes from the beginning of August violate the independence of the NB and you know it. You argued and explained that we didn't get it right, that it was lost in translation, etc., let's leave it now. NB independence is not a constitutional category. Look at the Constitution where it clearly states that it is independent and not independent. Let go of independence now. And I was wrong until I looked at it when I used that word. So it should be on its own to amend the August Law, as those whose society we should enter say. Even you with the newly discovered Euro-enthusiasm want there. They say independence is disrupted when the ruling majority in parliament rides the NB. In that sense, speak plainly. When the influence on the NB has the ruling majority it's a violation of independence, that's what they think. Among the many things that were violated in early August, by changing the law, you find this independence to offer and say – that will not be asked by the Assembly, for the statute, and thus strengthen independence. That's not the point. The main thing is other members that you do not change, and you think that you will satisfy or remove the objections that exist in the IMF or from the European Commission. You won't, because those other provisions remain from the beginning of August that significantly violate independence, but independence of the NB. We who do not vote for this are not against parliamentary control of the NB, we just say – this is nothing compared to what we said in early August, which significantly violates the independence of the NB and ultimately to return – it was an amendment of the law to change the governor. Whatever the predecessor was, that's not how it's done, and that's the best evidence of the faulty independence of the NB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4137	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4138	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a little over three months ago you were part of the ruling majority, the Vice-President of the SNS, and you proposed amendments to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. We, as a parliamentary group of DS, have warned you that these changes will disrupt the integrity of the National Bank and that you can also be named in another way by someone who is a party official and someone who is a politician. It is not a problem, but it will not contribute to strengthening our institutions, nor will it contribute to our European integration. You claimed that there was no discrepancies with our European integrations and that there was no positive practice of European central banks, when it comes to this law. Today, three months after that, we have re-changes and additions of the law with an explanation that we need to bring the provisions of this law closer to European regulations. When it comes to this amendment, it's about the principle you had at the time or now. That's what I'm asking you. You have spoken in favour of these changes, I have taken a stenogram from that session of the Assembly, and the instructions that changes to the law and governor will contribute, quote the ruling majority MPs, calming the anxiety of citizens who cannot sleep because of the excessive value of the euro and the unstable course. Today, the euro rate is lower than two dinars, but the question arises -- can citizens buy what they could have bought for that euro three months ago or 12 months ago? Inflation will be over 12% by the end of the year, and retail prices of basic life intentions have increased over 20%. This is the only result of changes and additions to these and other laws implemented by the ruling majority. When the proposed representative at the August 3rd session spoke of Article 8 and his amendment, he said, I will also quote: "Article 8 amends Article 20 of the law, which prescribes a restriction in the choice of governors, which applies to other officials. The connected faces are wider, but more precisely defined. Changes have been made that allow a connected person to alienate actions, i.e. shares. The provisions have been simplified in line with the definition of financial institutions. "Then it was an argument, and you today refused my amendment with a reason not to accept it, because the solution proposed in Article 5 of the Law equalises the treatment of National Bank officials with other officials, elected by the National Assembly in accordance with the law governing the Anti-Corruption Agency. I'm asking you, where's the principle? Are there any hidden intentions? You don't have to call your associates. Tell me why you need to look at the rope now, and three months ago you were supposed to look wider at the connected faces when it's defined in this article. If it is a matter of reasoning, as well as a statute, that the problem is in English translation, that I should inform you that the Anti-Corruption Agency Act is in Serbian and that there was nothing to translate, just to read the definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4139	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Delevic, Bozidar Djelic and Mirko Cvetkovic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national emissary, Milica Delevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4140	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The substance of this amendment is further compliance with Article 14(2). The Statute of the European System of Central Banks, which aims to ensure that if one of the vice governors terminates his post, for whatever reason, before the term of office expires, that someone with a minimum duration of office is elected in his place, means for the entire term of office, and not only until the end of the term of office of the Vice-Government to which the term of office is suspended for some reason. The purpose of the coordination is to ensure the minimum duration of the function, as well as continuity in the work that the proposer claims has tried to arrange in other members who have been proposed by these amendments and additions. I think that because of the purpose of the work of the National Bank of Serbia, and also because of further alignment with European legislation, which we see as the objective, as well as the response to the European Central Bank's remarks, I propose that this amendment be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4141	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 6a. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4142	I accept the amendment on behalf of the National Bank of Serbia. I thank the board for the analogy of this cascade of choice of all officials in the same way. I expect him to become an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4143	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4144	I would point out one practice adopted by the National Assembly, which is that from the decision on the amendments made, to Article 1 of this proposal, until the amendments are submitted by going beyond the framework of the bill itself. So it's spreading the scope of the amendments to the attacks, rather than the bill itself. We have a situation here that, practically, it becomes an integral part of the bill and something that wasn't treated in the bill itself. I repeat, after Article 6, Article 6a is added, which means if a new Article 6a is added. It is accepted, and it is obvious that this is accepted in practice, means in the decision of the board. Practically, if the committees don't reject such an amendment, we're going to be in a situation where we're discussing the tide here. We are thus opening up practice, a new practice, that if only certain points are attacked by budget rebalance, it will give each MP the right to make a proposal to change the overall, for example, budget. If amendments and additions are proposed only to extend the duration or validity of the law or entry into force, the adoption of such practice will allow each Member to submit an amendment to the common text of the law which may have 100 or 200 members. We are in principle violating the principle that amendments and amendments can only apply to them, not beyond that. We have defined by the unique methodological rules for the making of regulations that if more than half of the members are to be changed that it is a new law, and if it is to half the members, then it can be about changes and additions. By adopting this practice, we will be able to have in every draft law on amendments and additions the practical possibility of attacking the basic text of the law in each member who is the subject and who is not the subject of this. I think I'm clear enough. I also pointed out that when the tide decided on the amendment that Mr. Ilic defended, where 24a was added, and I prayed then, if a certain error occurred because of the speed, that it would not happen to us and that it would not become a constant practice. This practically introduces a constant practice for the submission of amendments to go beyond the framework of the amendment law and the additions of some basic law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4145	Thank you. In the words of Mrs Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4146	Thank you. My parliamentary experience allows me to tell you what is the fact that there has been both such and such an act and that there has been no discretionary right to allow something, you say, to be widely attacked or roped, but it has been decided by the reasons. I am pleased that the Constitutional Committee has adopted such a proposal. For the sake of the public, let us not say that something is being extended in relation to the amendments to the law, because Article 6 which is the subject of the amendments has such solutions as to ensure continuity in the work of the Executive Board and the Council, by providing their mandates with cascade security for five, four, three years. The members of the Executive Board, not only the Vice-Governors, to whom the amendments were addressed, but also the Director of the Board, who some feared would be governor number two or put the governor in their pocket, and you should therefore support this, because the Committee on Constitutional Affairs supported and what is essentially the same solution that separates the governor as the first and provides members of the Executive Board in continuous work, where their mandates are cascaded. This supplement given by the Finance Committee, which is why I thanked them, literally puts officials in the same rank, and that is, not to extend this amendment to the problem, but to consistently implement the same principle for officials, i.e. members of the National Bank Executive Board. Don't create a false fear that this can open up the practice of submitting amendments to a hundred other members, not those who are subject to amending and supplementing the law. Yes, they can be submitted, but the Constitutional Affairs Committee may refuse or accept them if it considers them celebratory for the overall solution. You're a lawyer and it's not right for me to be an economist, but from my long parliamentary practice I repeat a very important max – let's look, let's read the spirit of the law, not just the letter of the law. This is in the spirit of the changes proposed by you as a lawyer, as a very constructive colleague, I expect support in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4147	Thank you. Mr. Mikovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4148	I am a lawyer, and I also spoke to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. The fact is that most on the board have accepted the practical change in practice that has been so far. Not to mention, I'm not going into the fullness of the proposed solution at all, I'm just asking that the Rules of Procedure and the general rules be respected in principle. Whether, in time or later, a mistake or a need to adjust something has been observed, but let us do it in accordance with the applicable regulations and see it immediately, that if it is necessary in some way to intervene in Article 21a of the basic text, then let it also stand in the bill of law. I note, in Article 6. The draft law is proposed to amend Article 21 of the basic text of the law. Article 7 proposes to amend Article 22 of the basic text of the law, but none of the members of the Law's proposals are intended to amend Article 21a of the basic text of the law. We now have an amendment committee to amend a member of the 21st basic text of the law. It wasn't in the bill, and it was introduced. So, I don't argue with that, you later saw a mistake, you tried to fix a mistake, who suggested who, it's all right, but we don't see where the trap can be hidden and then we see where the mistake is. I will also talk about Article 10, where I proposed to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, i.e. to point out the unconstitutional nature of Article 10. The bill, and later my amendment was not adopted by the committee or by the legislator. The same amendment, in view of the fact that constitutional appeal must not be lifted, is being proposed, adopted and practically becomes an integral part. In that sense, believe me, each of us intends to fix every law. One of us points to certain mistakes as soon as he saw them, while it could still be fixed, until the principle debate began. That's why I don't argue if we adopt this practice, but let's know that this practice then we have to rephrase for every bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4149	Thank you. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4150	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Two things. A very interesting debate has opened about what can be an integral part and what can contain the law on amendments and amendments to the law. Mr. Mikovic is a lawyer, and I am a construction engineer and as a lawyer, precision plays a very important role with us. I would only correct if my colleague Mikovic lets me, since he said – if we establish this practice, and I think - if we continue this practice, because this practice is also how it has been applied over the past four years. As far as we're concerned, we feel that we need to change the Rules of Procedure and unambiguously determine what can change and what can not. Until it is done, we often have objections as a parliamentary group and we think that amendments and additions to the law do not change those members that need to be changed. We'll apply this practice to the first next law. Since we can now add a number of members, when there are first names and additions to the law on the agenda we'll write everything we think needs to be changed and it's our pleasure to be able to discuss all the members that we think are needed to change. Until the methodological provisions and Rules of Procedure are changed, we will be happy to apply this practice in the congregation debate. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, we cannot accept this amendment as a parliamentary group for a number of reasons. First of all, it is not precise enough, because if some of the following members are scheduled to have a 90-day term to be elected Vice-Governor, or all of the officials to whom the term of office has ceased, it can theoretically happen that if their mandate, or function, ceases 91 days before the term of office of officials and are elected within 90 days, which is the obligation of the National Assembly by one of the following members, which we will discuss, then the theoretical functioner can only last one day. There are such and similar solutions in some other laws, let's say, with the temporary authorities of local self-government, but there is a deadline, and if you get into that deadline, let's say six months to a regular election or by the end of the term, then those provisions are frozen, because otherwise there would be solutions that are absurd. In this case, if it happens 91 days a new vice governor can theoretically be elected and his term of office only lasts for one day.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4151	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Cvian, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Governor, I must point out that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives unanimously adopted the amendment of the Finance Committee, where a new Article 6a is added. Just to explain both for Mrs Tabakovic's sake and for the sake of the public and for all the MPs, that we unanimously adopted for the following reasons – precisely because of the inaccuracy of the Rules of Procedure itself, it can be interpreted as being the addition of a new member of the 6a. exit from the framework of the proposed law. But I remind you, the Rules of Procedure clearly state that the subject matter of the law is being taken care of. Would, in the opinion of some MPs, be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure if we were a member of 6a. The rest of the text? In that case, we may have fulfilled the form of the Rules of Procedure, but we would have received a rogue member, a obnoxious position which, if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, whose president I am, would have been a disgrace to me by Vuk Karadzic, to begin with. For this reason, I am fully convinced, and we unanimously decided on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, where I repeat, everyone voted in favour of such a decision, so we unanimously established that the addition of Article 6a was. in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and not to come out of the framework of the Rules of Procedure, which insists that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law take care of the subject matter of the law. So no new practice has been established, we have not come out of any framework and I repeat once again, we unanimously made that decision on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4153	The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4154	Thank you. It's simple, I agree with Mr. Cvian, and I think we need to open an urgent discussion on the Committee on how to amend the law. Take, for example, the consolidated text of the National Bank Act, that text that we are changing today by amendments was downloaded from the NBS site. The basic text begins with Article 1 and ends with Article 98. In that regard, Art. From 92 to 96 they were deleted and that is the basic text. Then the independent members of the 2010 Law on Amendments and Supplements to the NB Act follow, and these are art. 96, 97 to 99. Then there are independent members, so the law now has independent members, changes from 2012, and that's art. 24, 25, 26 and 27. In other words, the NB Act currently has an art. 24, 25, 26 and 27 and independent. 24, 25, 26 and 27. If we need to call on Article 24, we need to point out whether it's a member of the law or an independent member of the National Bank Act. You'll agree that it's pretty complicated and that it's urgent that we bring an act and decide what to do in these cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4155	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4156	We have decided unanimously on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. That is why I have pointed out here on the tide the dangers of allowing wider changes than are covered by the very submission of the amendment proposal and the addition of a certain law. That attitude is clearly not accepted. Unless it's accepted, I'm absolutely okay with it that every time the bill comes on amendments and additions to some new law, we can change the basic text if possible, and if not, let's fix it in general. It is that it will help me say a bit of a broader discussion here at the tide, but I think it's absolutely legitimate and that's how it is set up. So every time we have changes and additions to one or two members, we can attack 100 to 150 members of the basic text of the law. So, I've accepted a majority position on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, but I'm just pointing out here that I'm also going to insist that we apply this practice in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4157	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4158	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, seems to me that we have embarked on something that involves too much energy being spent on explaining something that is perfectly clear. In particular, this amendment is on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, which is assessed as fully in accordance with the Constitution and legal regulations, and I do not think that this colloquial conversation is going in the right direction because there really is no single reason for the amendment to put any objection from the legal-formal aspect. Finally, there is another rational reason why the amendment should be accepted, which is the fact that the amendment that has, in fact, legal power now and binding force is equating everyone before the law, no one is put in a more favourable position or anyone else in a privileged position. Therefore, this cascade system that the governor explains is precisely in the spirit of this amendment. Given that the amendment is in line with the law, that it has been assessed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, there is no need to deal with whether or not this is in the spirit of practice. In practice, we will in no way change anything, except that we can think eventually that this assembly through the Rules of Procedure, eventually amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure, determines what changes and what doesn't change and in any way, and until then there is really no single reason to spend time in this way in explaining something that is perfectly clear. So, the amendment as it is, it is in accordance with the law, it is in accordance with the legal rules, and therefore, it needs to be accepted and that is the SPS position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4159	Anyone else want a word? (No) Since the proposing representative accepted this amendment, I find that he has become an integral part of the Law. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Delevic, Bozidar Djelic and Mirko Cvetkovic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk emissary, Milica Delevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4160	Thank you. The same explanation as for the previous amendment – ensuring continuity of the work of the Council and respecting the European Central Bank's remarks in terms of compliance with Article 14(2) of the European System of Central Banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4161	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4162	I have waited to comment on this next amendment of yours and I did not expect you to repeat the fact that it does not stand – ensuring continuity in the Statute of the European Central Bank, Article 14 of point 2 applies only to the governor, to the continuity of his function, not to the Vice-Governors, and not to this way to the members of the Council. Just respecting the position, not the pressure, not the request, but the position of the European Central Bank, the governor remained out of this consensus during the elections. It's the only real fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4163	Thank you. The word is Milica Delević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4164	I thank Mrs. Tabakovic. My remarks are exclusively about the comments that have been submitted to me as chairman of the Committee on European Integration of the Serbian Parliament and which are also about the need to ensure the minimum duration of the post of vice-government and members of the Council. I suppose they interpreted the Statute in a way that was transmitted in comments, and I believe they shared the comments not only with the Assembly, but also with the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4165	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted the 8th amendment. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4166	Article 26, i.e. Article 8 of the amendment and addition of the Law, adds a new position that says that if the function of the National Bank ceases to function before the term of office, the new official shall be elected within 90 days of the day of termination of office. So a new attitude is added to specify the time limit. Our DSS MP group has suggested that this position be deleted. The amendment was not accepted. We have been given a reason not to accept the amendment because the proposed solution sets a precise deadline for selecting a new official, thus ensuring continuity in the work of the National Bank of Serbia. If I'm not mistaken, today on November 5th 2012, it's still in force, since this law is not, the changes have not been adopted, it will probably be today during the day. The amendments adopted on 5 August 2012 are in force. Independent member of the 26th Law, published in "The Official Messenger" No. 76/12, said the governor, vice governor, director of the Supervisory Board and members of the Council, will be elected within 90 days of the entry into force of this law. If I count well 90 days, it expires on Saturday, November 3rd. So, we had a call that worked normally, the beginning of the term of office, the least of the problems, the most peaceful period compared to the periods in which the National Assembly can have, and under all these conditions is not respected by a 90-day deadline to choose all the functions of the National Bank. No advice has yet been chosen, nor is the director of the administration, even the agenda point not even on the agenda of the session – the selection of the director of the administration. So we didn't respect the 90-day deadline. It changes the law and re-establishs a 90-day deadline, so far it's been six months. It happens in the work of the Assembly that there are breaks from six months each when the Assembly does not work. That's what we had this year, from February to June. During that period, trustees, or Protectors, were to be elected, so the Assembly could not meet the requirement. It seems to me that the stricter deadlines do not respect the practice of the congregation, and that they can create a situation where deadlines will not be respected. I say, if nothing else, we've respected it this time, because that deadline expired on Saturday, and then why do we all decide on such relatively short deadlines, if practice shows that not so rarely, that they don't respect each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4168	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4169	As with the previous amendment, because this article changes for six months, 90 days, the explanation is the same. The high probability is that the 90-day deadline will not be respected as we have not respected it these days.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4170	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MP Gordana Komic and joint MPs Jovan Palalić and Milos Aligrudic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4171	Madam Vice-President, Mrs Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we spoke on Thursday about a problem that exists with regard to Article 10 and, of course, as an MP's club, we submitted an amendment, and we expected that also the representative, Mrs Tabakovic, and the Committee on Finance, would respect the arguments that we have made, which is that the National Bank officials do not have the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court, and that such a solution is contrary to the constitution. Instead, the debate has come down to perfectly justified arguments that it cannot be denied to anyone or to officials of the National Bank the right to a constitutional appeal. But constitutional appeal and appeal to the Constitutional Court are not two of the same things at all, and if we all agree that the right to a constitutional appeal cannot be denied to anyone, which is undeniable, the question of why it was allowed as the only officials in Serbia, elected by the National Assembly, other than judges and prosecutors, the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court, the governor, Vice Governor and other officials. On Thursday, we listened to the discussion and arguments presented here in the National Assembly, that the European Commission had made criticisms in its report, when the report is read, it appears that it is a fact-finding judicial control and judicial protection in the case of resolved officials of the National Bank. In this document that came to the National Assembly on Wednesday or Thursday, the Committee on European Integration indicated the need to resolve the issue of judicial protection through a court. As a parliamentary group, we have carefully analyzed the situation that occurred when they came to the National Assembly of Amendments and the additions of this law and we have also considered it important to resolve the issue of judicial protection, not only of the officials of the National Bank, but of all those persons whose possibility is explicitly in the laws which are resolved on their jurisdiction, rights and obligations are not given. We believe, and that is what we were talking about to the esteemed Ms Tabakovic, that the National Bank, on such a single request from the European Commission, could give only one answer, that in our legal system and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia there is judicial protection for resolved officials, and that there is no need and I do not see why they ask us to write this specifically. I will now read for the public at this time, and of course there is also the chairman of the Committee on Finance and Mrs Tabakovic, who is the judicial protection. Article 198. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, paragraph 2, says – the legality of final, individual acts, i.e. a resolution act, which decides on the law, obligation or law-based interest, shall be subject to review before the court in a administrative dispute, if in a particular case the law does not provide for any other judicial protection. That's exactly the case. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the right to judicial protection, not the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court and the resolved functionator of the National Bank before the Administrative Court. The Law on Administrative Disputes, which discusses this norm, states in Article 3(2) - in the administrative dispute, the Court also decides on the legality of final individual acts, which are resolved on the law, obligations and on the law-based interest in which, in a particular case, the law does not provide for judicial protection. That's exactly the case. Therefore, judicial protection is provided to officials in our legal system and by the Law on Administrative Disputes and Standards of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that this solution, which you have now installed through the amendment of the Finance Committee, has violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because you are giving rights to resolved officials who do not have any other official elected in the National Assembly, beginning with regulatory bodies, independent institutions, ministers and all others who would also have the full right to seek amendments to the laws which are being resolved or determine their right to amend the law to establish their right to appeal to the Constitutional Court. We really don't understand why this question came up? We said in our debate that what the European Commission is looking for should not be fulfilled by violating the Constitution or our legal system. We could, in this particular case, answer them that our legal system provides it and that there was no need for you to force us to write it, because then we would have to, for every person and everyone who is being dealt with by a final and individual act, write in that law that they had the right to press charges with the Constitutional Court. Then why the Law on Administrative Disputes? Ignorance yuris at night, no knowledge of the right, no apologies. So if anyone doesn't know they're right, please excuse me, he's suffering the consequences. Every time we get into a situation to spread the rights to the wording of the Constitution, we will act as a parliamentary group. We cannot accept that in this particular case only because it was considered or considered by someone, it strengthens the independence or independence of the National Bank, and on the basis of the European Commission's request. At the very end of the line, the European Commission's own report does not say which court, so it is very interesting to hear why the constitutional court appeal, rather than initiating proceedings before the Administrative Court, which every official has the right under the Constitution and the law in the Administrative Court to implement. I am afraid that we are creating a dangerous precedent, that the National Assembly will be in a position to deal with complaints before the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court, which is also overcrowded with cases, will not be able to respond to these demands within the deadlines, and then we will have various situations, that one of the officials solves the Assembly, the court does not decide on them, we choose others and violate the law by having a large number of officials, which are resolved, which, under the charges, exist in our system. Once again, you chose a bad solution. Our legal system guarantees the right to proceedings before the Administrative Court, and that was quite enough and there was no need for anything to say about it in the law. That's why we submitted our amendment to delete article 10. Please reconsider this solution once more, because I don't know who advised you that the only way out is to appeal to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4172	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4173	As soon as possible. The administrative dispute over the acts of parliament? Is there a lawyer who will agree with your decision to act in parliament because they are officials who are elected in parliament? Well, they can't be followed by a rule or a legal dispute. The situation in the EU is different, they have a court of justice and the European Central Bank points to a court of justice. We have the highest authority of the Constitutional Court. Experts, who deal with this matter, in which we trust, have discussed with experts from other countries and have suggested that this is the only solution in this situation. I think it's appropriate. That's why the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4174	Thank you. The word is Mr. Palalic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4175	Just what you said – what is the final individual act? It's a resolution act. It's an individual act. It doesn't matter what the National Assembly brought him, it's an individual act. If no other judicial protection is provided, he shall have the right to initiate a administrative dispute if he considers that the law has been broken. The final individual act is a resolution act. I don't know how the lawyers advised you, but the nature of the legal acts suggests that such acts are subject to proceedings before the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4176	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4177	Indeed, a great doubt, in the professional public above all, created this article on the 10th Amendment and addition of the National Bank Act. Although in a political sense we were able to understand everything the lawyers had learned in the first amendments and the addition of the National Bank Act, it's obvious that it was politics, here I really don't think it was politics. This is really about the professional legal issue. If the Constitution has already provided for a constitutional appeal as a possibility of protection in the event that the remaining remedies have been exhausted or that the remedies are not provided, why is there a duplication going on now? Why not just a constitutional appeal, but a constitutional court appeal? Thus, this article 170. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia leads to some new interpretation. With many colleagues in the profession, we have been discussing this issue these days and none of them is clear why, if the law provides that there is no two-stage procedure, that rights of the resolved officials are to be decided before our highest court, before the Constitutional Court, if the decision of the court is final and for which no constitutional appeal as in all other cases is to be left, it is to file a special appeal, which is defined as an appeal to the Constitutional Court. I really don't think it's politics. I have no doubt that you have consulted with the invited experts, but here in an explanation, in defense of these changes, you are calling for parallel-legal practice. However, it would be quite fine if it were parallel-law practice in the spirit of our Constitution. However, parallel-law practice had solutions that were in the spirit of the Constitution of these countries. It is certain that this solution, in my opinion, will be highly disputed before the Constitutional Court. That's why we don't understand why it got into this, in our opinion, absolutely nothing caused and unnecessary adventure, because this lawmaker doesn't get anything. In my opinion, I think we should leave that solution to the Constitution. It is certain that this will be a very interesting subject in front of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. My humble opinion as a lawyer is that there is much more chance that the Constitutional Court declares this Article 10 unconstitutional. That's why I'm saying you don't have to go into this adventure, which is absolutely pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4178	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4179	You gave me the cream to tell one of me a very important thing and to the National Bank of Serbia, as the legislator. No single member who is scheduled to change has been brought before you to order and formally and to be a dead letter on paper. So we're only doing what we really think is necessary, useful, not for anyone inside the National Bank, but the fastest possible, for the country above all, but also applicable. Whether or not it will cause confusion and how it will go in the Constitutional Court, we will see. We have no experience in that. But if the Administrative Court called incompetent when one of the officials elected by the Assembly resolved, we have this as an experience and as a history from which we should learn. When Mrs. Bajalovic was dismissed as president of the Competition Protection Commission, which addressed the Administrative Court, the court called incompetent. So I can't leave that legal drug as a pronoun when it doesn't work in practice, but we left the one that is maximum, let me say, by analogy, applicable and enforceable in the existing conditions. I wish you'd keep that in mind when you're assessing the suggestions we've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4180	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4181	Thank you. Mrs. Tabakovic, I didn't mention the Administrative Court for that, I say, which I called on Article 170. The constitution of Serbia, which says - if there are no other legal means, other legal remedies or existing remedies and existing medicines have been exhausted, so if the procedure is already completed, the only means left to the person who has been resolved or who has violated his rights is the right to file a constitutional appeal. The Constitution already provides that, and you say - appeal to the Constitutional Court. So, one is being introduced, in my opinion, an unnecessary institute that we can define. If a lawyer with experience asked what was the difference between a constitutional court appeal and a constitutional appeal, no one would know to give a quality answer. What's the difference, except in the order of words? I think the essence is the same and that the procedure before the Constitutional Court, since this proposal by article 10 does not regulate the procedure... So, then those rules and the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court will apply, and then it is unnecessary, since the Constitution defines the right to file a constitutional appeal, it will define it as a special appeal to the Constitutional Court. I'm talking about some kind of specific pleonism that I find unnecessarily unnecessary. We can start from the fact that the extra head doesn't hurt, but I'm afraid because the Constitution already provides for such a solution will be declared unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4182	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4183	Thank you. The dilemma is whether Article 10, on which I have submitted an amendment with a proposal to delete a member, is from the arguments already given and which are different, but essentially by sharing the position that it cannot, by law, be put out of force by the Constitution, define a provision on an individual constitutional appeal. If you do it once, then you can do it every time in any other law. Then the big question is what of the Constitution remains in force in the end. That argument is not indisputable to me. What's questionable to me is, does that member still exist? So, is the time I'm using two minutes for an amendment or from a parliamentary group? Given that the Committee on Finance has submitted an amendment, that the proposing representative agreed with the amendment and Article 10, which in the original text of the law had a provision on the right of the official who was dismissed, to appeal to the Constitutional Court. By prohibiting him from using an individual constitutional appeal, such a member no longer exists. They will not even vote on this because the agreement of the Committee and the proposing representatives has become an integral part of the bill. So it remains for the chairman to assess whether the time I spend is two minutes to submit an amendment or from the time of the parliamentary group. I'd say it's from the time of the parliamentary group. A comment on the amendment made by the Committee on Finance remains to be filed, and that is now the solution in the law, since it is difficult for us to have room to intervene with the text or during the vote, if this is not good. By adding a deadline of 30 days from the date of publication of the decision in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". The arguments we hear that should disprove that Article 10 doesn't have to exist, we see that it doesn't exist in the form in which we got it in the original text of the law, is that someone didn't want to act on an individual solution. Because the administrative court has called incompetent, so in our practice known negative jurisdiction – don't make me decide, you better push it somewhere. Because someone in the administrative court has estimated that there is no need to discuss an individual act, we first get a proposal here to abolish an individual constitutional appeal, and then we have a change to do so in the Constitutional Court. How about we talk to that administrative court, see on the round table, in public hearing in a conversation with the Justice Committee, anyone, thank God there is an institution. Let's see what's the argument that the procedure of one of the institutions in the state is creating legal practice -- not the administrative court a single solution -- is now going to be for NBS officials, there will be another sector, and then we will show up for some other officials. This is not good because it repeats the idea that the congregation needs its authority to give to someone else, or not to interfere with comments if the administrative court has said it will not. They won't judge and beg nicely. It's a very serious problem, much more serious than this solution. It'll only be serious if there's a real case. Because when an analogy is sought with judges, or constitutional basis for judges, it is omitted that the Constitutional Court speaks only of proceedings with judges. He doesn't interfere with what was made of material. He's watching to see if the procedure is respected. What will the Constitutional Court appreciate about the procedure in the event of the resolution of the NBS officials? The Constitutional Court will appreciate that during the discharge, we have violated the procedure, that the National Assembly, which the Constitutional Court can address only with its own comment, and that we decide whether the law or a member who has been declared and assessed unconstitutional will go back into the procedure or not. So we have a dialogue with the Constitutional Court. This is what you say – the Constitutional Court will assess whether the National Assembly respects the procedure. Please delete it from the law after all. Not because it will reduce the security of officials resolved in the future in the NBS, not because the administrative court says it will not, but because it is a matter of self-respect for all of us together in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4184	Thank you. Before I give my word to Mrs Tabakovic, I am obliged to answer you on this amendment, as well as on all the others discussed. We've admitted two minutes to you as an amendment promoter, the rest is being rejected by the parliamentary group. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4185	You're Mrs. Comic to me all the time. Now I understand what the problem is with the MPs. No, this is an exception in which the Constitutional Court would decide, not whether the procedure is respected, but about the essence. Is he a member of the 28th? The NBS Act, which sets out the reasons for the resolution, did those conditions set out in Article 28 really take place? So, not if it's a respected procedure in what procedure and how. Did the reasons really come? That's why we came up with a solution like this, because in the talks that were whether or not the Constitutional Court should be in charge, the question has been raised that if the resolved official had filed a complaint, which some MPs mentioned. It's said he'd have no right to file a constitutional appeal. The reason is very clear. There's no excuse for the Constitutional Court to decide twice on the same thing. You have to admit that. There is a question in the process of this appeal. The court determined whether the resolution was carried out, not only under the prescribed procedure, but above all whether the reasons for the resolution had taken place. I spoke in principle about it. Not whether he's retired or incapacitated, but whether he's broken some of the conditions he shouldn't have and someone has to appreciate. So, that determination, whether the reasons for the resolution came, are what is valued in the Constitutional Court. So, the only prerequisite to use this remedy is that the functioner be resolved before the deadline on which he is elected expires. It's not a practice that opens up for not knowing how many and a hundred, but for a maximum of four jokes from the governor, as much as there is by law. We've decided that three are enough. So, really, the only condition to talk about this is a solution before it expires, but it appreciates the fulfilment of the conditions set out in Article 28. It is said that if there is a violation of the law in terms of conditions, but also procedures, not only procedures such as judges and prosecutors, the court could adopt such a complaint and annul the resolution decision. I'm saying, you could conditionally, because that's the practice we're creating right now. Wanting to be with the best intentions and in line with what is the practice of the countries that have that court of justice, and as such we do not try to create an analogy of the protection of functioners of institutions whose independence we all stand for in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4186	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic, based on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4187	It's about the Constitutional Court not being able to discuss the reasons. So we can't call in the analogy with the judges. In the case of judges exclusively on the procedure, the Constitutional Court procedure when making decisions on the judges' complaints has no jurisdiction at all to discuss the reasons for the grounds. He challenged resolutions based on a breach of procedure. He can't do both. I can't – I'll set the NBS off by analogy with the judges, because there's no basis for NBS officials in the Constitution. So - I'll put them in analogies, but then I'll add that the Constitutional Court is considering whether the reasons came. Then what do we serve? Then you put that Constitutional Court resolution of NBS officials, this is characterized by bad cynicism. Then how is he going to consider whether there are reasons why we serve? That's what I'm talking about. To give such jurisdiction to the Constitutional Court, and if we hadn't asked, maybe people wouldn't have. That I suppose you wouldn't. It's a lack of respect for this institution and it's my firm point of view. I hope this provision doesn't cause any problems with any future resolution, because we don't have a case so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4188	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4189	The reasons why this analogy is applied and not applied are the same as those handled by critics, independence, independence or specificities of the National Bank. We want her once, we don't want her again. I must openly tell you all what you don't want to see. It's not appropriate, but I have to say. In time, the agencies were created as independent regulatory bodies in order to extract the political influence and selection of the organs they operate, in order to create an illusion of independence, you have to agree with that, we have evidence. Today, when we want to avoid creating an illusion that there is an independent institution that will not be under political influence, and when we provide a mechanism for it, we do not like it, and that is why I will say it openly – it is required that there is this kind of protection that most, any one today, this one, tomorrow, may appreciate the fulfilment of the conditions for resolution, managed by a political stance. It's always going to be a two-stage decision, where one organ can be wrong, and the one above can return to review or decide otherwise. The Constitutional Court would by nature have to be someone who is not guided by political interests and thus confirm or dispute the decision. I believe that you remember, too, Mrs Comic, when we had one of the lectures of a professor who deals with parliamentary practice and the division of MPs between what is called the general interest of citizens and the division of ourselves as a member of a political party that still depends on who sends it to parliament, so it must vote in the way that it does, and at least to you personally, but it is a practice that exists, that there is this political influence because everyone is, in a way, more or less, obedient in terms of the position that the party has. In order to avoid political thinking and to assess the reasons for resolution, a double key system is required for this kind of independent officials. It's a requirement, it's a practice. We're trying to create her here, with the best intentions. It is up to you to criticise it, but I tell you what are the reasons that led to the only possible solution at this time in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4190	Thank you. Mrs. Comic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4191	That's exactly what I'm saying. By the proposed solution, you say - The National Assembly cannot assess the reasons for the resolution of the officials, because it is composed of political parties. What should we be made of, rather than political parties? I'm taking it on purpose, because it's a very serious matter. Either the National Assembly will appoint, choose and resolve, and those in charge of individual acts and decisions will do their job, or we will enter into practice that the National Assembly, because we are members of political parties, will always have the opinion of someone in a political party, not our own. To prevent that, then we will say that the Constitutional Court is considering the content of the reasons why the National Assembly decided by majority of votes to resolve some functionator of the National Bank. That's not good, and we agree. Let us not together let the National Assembly do what is its constitutional authority and what is our common work. I won't answer again. I thank you for the replicas and for your patience, but I really hope that by the day of voting we will re-use article 165 and correct this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4192	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4193	I would not like to remain on the conclusion that the Assembly cannot, that MPs cannot, that they are dimmed by the position of their political party, etc., because there are many more of them who really think with their own head and themselves, which some wonder, not many, I am proud that the political attitude and the most well-intentioned civic attitude and professional attitude can have a sign of equality between those three things. There are many that I personally respect and appreciate for it, and I try to be that way myself. But we can't be, as you say, in Europe for a little while and we're setting conditions. That's exactly why we're looking for increased protection for this institution, and we're trying not to be the object of the dispute to open other things, and so that the National Bank Act is not the part that's being talked about, and that we leave other more important and more important things behind. So, in order for all of us to go forward both as Parliament and as an institution and as a society and as individuals, we will try to learn all these rules from the great world, in which they themselves recognise the imperfection of the choice of bodies of independent institutions, because they are proposed by political parties, so it is said, an independent expert, respected. Who gave him the license to be respected when he should be proposed here by the political party? In that sense, you and I wish that we were the broadest and that we were the pattern that could really be taken in Serbia as the widest, let's say - this man is respected and it doesn't matter what's from this political party or that political party. That's not the case in any country, to the fullest extent. Each of us is trying to make it more important both personally and legally, to make it impossible for the political attitude to be more important than this civil, legal, to say general-European. You and I know how to repay the discussion. Others may be bored, but I really think we've told the citizens the important thing. Try to make remarks that rightly, but not all, the judiciary carries and that justice that cannot be provided only at one level, for example. The court authorities, one court rulings, and you can no longer appeal to anyone. The rest of the Turks - the cadiya sues you, the cadiya judges you, that the same organ cannot do it. There's a higher one going. It's just, I think it's a desire to ensure here the unintentioned political parties, not the ignorance, the dark work, I'd throw a stone at myself if I accepted it as a reason. But there seems to be much more to Serbia to prove that on the path of change to the EU it has made mistakes and will not. Every time you get in a position to answer for what you haven't done, they ask you to do twice as much. Simply, take it as an effort and as a need to show that mistakes will no longer be made by anyone in Serbia, regardless of what power it is, which is a political party, not provoking a single-party system or communism or whatever, simply that as humans we are not wrong and that we are not doing injustices as much as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4194	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4195	Mrs. Tabakovic, listening to you, I feel like I'm living in some beautiful fairy tale. Now we are trying in a thin and beautiful way to bring these European standards into line and to ensure, despite certain specificities of our legal system, that every official has human rights guaranteed at every moment. We hear how important it is that even what is an illusion of depoliticalism becomes a real depoliticalization. That's what the vice president of the SNS is telling us today. What are we talking about here? You're talking about how best it would be to properly assess the reason for the possible shift of a functioner, and your party and your coalition partners didn't have a single wish a few weeks ago, a few months ago, to assess why those who then led the NBS should leave their positions. No, you didn't need the Constitutional Court at all, you didn't need the Administrative Court, you didn't need anything, but you did a political cleanup, as you did with the amendments to the law, which provided that some minister could, without any reason, change someone, even if that person tried for years to believe what was told her for years, which is to go into the professionalization of the state administration. Mrs. Tabakovic, it can't be this duplicitous. You can't try to say on the one hand that you need to carry out true depolitisation and you can do political cleanups, that you're replacing the people who run the NBS, just so you can come as a politician who failed to become prime minister this time, in their place. Speaking of competence, we've heard that here because of the economic and efficiency of this National Assembly, you only come with well thought-out steps. I'm sorry, you've now admitted that a member of the 10th is against the constitution. You yourself have admitted, by the amendment that is now proposed and respected, that what is proposed, which is the abolition of the constitutional appeal, is something that is against a member of our 170th Constitution. So much for respecting the Constitution. And today we have a decision to appoint members of the Council. As a member of the Finance Committee, I was invited last Friday to the Committee, where the only item in the agenda was the withdrawal of that decision. After ten minutes, I was called to be told that he was withdrawing and that there was actually an amendment debate on the agenda of the committee. Last week there was a debate in this house, and today we have a decision, which is obviously in collegiate with this law. Not to mention that three months ago you proposed a law, where you wrote that there is not a single European text to be aligned with, and today we heard the whole story of how much we can't be half-harmonised. Mrs Tabakovic, for starters, if you are truly honest with European standards, you will recognize that the real politicisation is what counterpart Radojko Obradovic said earlier. There is a much greater risk of politicisation in the appointment of a vice governor if they are directly elected in the Assembly. This time it's avoided and I congratulate you on that, but we can't work on individual cases and depending on the person. Of course we should go back to that previous practice, where the Council had the authority to choose the governor's proposal. We need to go back to practice that we do not have two powers in the NBS, but rather the governor who manages the bank and who, in line with the objections that we hold in our hands, which are not respected, and the European Central Bank and the European Commission, who are concerned about the decisions that this administration can make, and finally, finally, to read to you another time, where it is said by the EU that you want to align yourself with, with this great world – there is serious concern about the fact that the governor of the NBS has recently been elected vice president of the SNS. Although it is said that these functions are frozen, it can establish a potential conflict of interest and threaten the independence of the Central Bank and the Governor, which is entirely in conflict with Article 130 of the basic text of the EU. Mrs. Tabakovic, there is no reason for you to assure us here that around some decisions, we will find a better way to protect human rights officials, do what is supposed to be professional ethics, return what was in the law before, and ensure that it is not politicised and resign as SNS deputy president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4196	I am responsible for the notification, since I am also the chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, to deny what you said, Mr. Djelic. At no time last week was the Committee scheduled to withdraw the decision. I am deeply aware that since the law did not enter into force last week, there was no basis for a decision to be withdrawn. The withdrawal of a decision can only take place when this law, if adopted, comes into force. ( Bozidar Djelic: That's what they told me. ) The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4197	Two sentences. I haven't replaced anyone, or replaced anyone. Some of them left voluntarily. As many reasons as there have been, you will see in the time and days to come. How good it is that someone who really has no problem with their cheeks, with their account, with their abuse of political attitude, with renting a political position, such as some, will see Serbian citizens as soon as possible. To all concerned, first of all, I can tell you – the days ahead will show why and the control of the banking system was not right and what was wrong, but not to say what was wrong, but to fix it and make it better. I hope you'll be in Serbia to welcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4198	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4199	I believe you asked for the best legal solution to solve the problem of judicial protection of officials. However, I must refer to the discussions that have been heard – what are the possible consequences and the problems that arise if this solution is adopted. This is where the procedure was discussed. You see, if this solution remains, it may, if possible, be handled before the Constitutional Court, you must urgently enter into amendments to the Constitutional Court Act. It's an emergency. The Constitutional Court Act regulates proceedings before the Constitutional Court. He does not mention in any of his provisions, both in the course of action, and in the manner in which decisions are made, the situation relating to the appeal of the resolved NBS officials. So, it is impossible to consider, on the basis of the norms defined by the Constitutional Court Act, the appeal submitted, because neither the Constitution nor the Constitutional Court Act is foreseen. The practical consequence of all this will be that the Constitutional Court will also reject that complaint because it cannot be handled. The fact is that the Administrative Court rejected someone's appeal, certainly does not release him from the obligation to act under the Law and by the Constitution situations where any official, and this is also the Constitution of the Administrative Court, is not subject to judicial protection, and its first, obligations and responsibilities have been decided by a final individual act. I think it would be better if, rather than having entered into one solution that you thought was better, which we believe is not based on the Constitution, which will produce an obligation to amend the Constitutional Court Act, to amend a number of other laws, in order to consult, among other things, the Constitutional and Administrative Court, to see how this court is doing and what it feels, who is in charge of the administration of disputes concerning individual acts. Therefore, I think it will be the same consequence that the Constitutional Court will not be able to act. At the end of the line, and this solution that you considered best, as best protection, will be so that the Constitutional Court itself will reject it, because in the laws that regulate its work, this absolutely does not exist. How can the Constitutional Court decide on the procedure, and it does so, or assess the constitutionality and legality of acts, and decide whether the procedure of someone's resolution has been violated, that it decides whether or not the Assembly has thus broken the law? Please think again. I'm saying, given the desire that you wanted to solve this problem, but I think the wrong solution has been chosen.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4200	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4201	Dear colleagues, the esteemed governor, carefully listening to all criticisms on this amendment, I am under the impression that there is a danger of us getting into one another and a far more dangerous position in relation to the violation of the law. In particular, the violation of the Courts' Law. Why? For the simple reason that, in addition to sincere respect and respect for colleagues who have elaborated this matter today, the decisions of this Parliament are not administrative. It's not about administrative acts. These are individual acts, but they did not stem from proceedings which would be governed by the Law on Administrative Procedure or Matter which implies that the Administrative Court is competent to decide on any legal means, in particular, the action, the administrative action against such an act. So let's look at the Law of Courts, let's look at what this law says about the jurisdiction of the court, and we'll make sure that this way or this model that it points to is not good, because it would come across a harsh violation of the Law on Court Order. On the other hand, persons covered by Parliament's decision, if they are unhappy with such a decision, must enjoy judicial protection. If judicial protection cannot be provided by the Administrative Court as a specialised court and cannot be given by courts of general jurisdiction, the question arises – which court could provide protection if it is not the Constitutional Court in accordance with the powers prescribed by the Constitutional Court Act? I do not dispute that at that time, the Constitutional Court, in any case, will, in accordance with what it is responsible for in the area of its residence, decide on overprotection of proceedings, apply in accordance with what the protection and prohibition of the principle of discrimination is, and make a valid decision in this direction. I do not dispute that the Constitutional Court has the right to say that it is not in charge of a particular matter, but we leave it to the Constitutional Court in practice to determine according to a concrete act which is objecting to the appeal, or constitutional appeal, and that is, we will definitely determine, or the court will show us what is going to be the subject of further proceedings before the Constitutional Court, and what is it that cannot be in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. There is something that implies exclusively judicial practice and that through court practice we can come up with a solution that is being affirmed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4202	Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4203	I'm sorry we're spreading the debate a little bit, but I think my colleague was talking about the essence of things this time. Do we have the right by this law to impose a constitutional court obligation that does not normally exist? We are aware of limited space, and on the first day, I was talking about how to meet the condition that we do not violate anyone within our legal system jurisdiction, independence, the restriction that the law allows. We leave it to the Constitutional Court to assess this because we have to create some new practice, and this may be the beginning, no one has suggested better, but I admit that all the questions you've opened, which is a colleague in full place, we've been aware and we've been, we've seen, and it really couldn't be found at this point a better solution. Keep in mind that this doesn't get in the way of anyone else's rights. We'll try to protect the rights, and that's what we're expected to do. As far as it's possible, it depends on everyone else, and I reckon we're on the same job as we are here in this room, in the whole state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4204	National MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4205	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to get an explanation from Mrs. Governor, when at the end of her statement she said she hoped she'd be in Serbia, is that her escort to my travels when something happens, is that some kind of threat and a common response to reasoned criticism? I'd like to find out exactly what your idea is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4206	Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4207	I don't think the answer to your question is in my domain.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4208	MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a long time, this multi-stage decision has been carried out in matters of NB officials through the National Assembly and the discussion of individual MPs. I've heard extremely interesting discussions, and I can't say that there was no good will to help and make the law as best possible, but if we look at how this problem came about, which is why it came about, and why it's being done, not to say the pressure, but one particular recommendation that there's multi-stage decision-making, let's clear it up. The EU countries do not have a precisely defined view and unity over the election of their national banks' officials. Somewhere we have a situation to propose, name their national parliaments, somewhere by the Prime Minister, somewhere by the finance minister, somewhere by the government. They don't have a clearly defined view of how to do it. Because, in most cases, this is done by the executive authority, there may be an administrative dispute or some dispute under their legislation against a decision by the authorities, because if you look at the system, our constitutional highest authority is the legislative authority, this parliament, and the judicial authority, and the executive power. Because of one problem, which is that it is the position of the European Central Bank because of its internal arrangement and statutes, which is not a national bank but a supranational bank, so that the European Parliament may be replaced by the Governor of the European Central Bank and by MPs who, for example, are Members of the European Parliament. in its national parliaments in opposition and in the European Parliament in position. Imagine someone taking over a governor who was proposed or appointed by Angela Merkel like that. The collapse of the entire economic system. He's trying to introduce that two-degree decision-making. Let's just ask a simple question -- if we accept that this is to be done by the Administrative Court, we put the law, we vote, and then one of our colleagues who disagrees says it's not good, I'm going to write a proposal to initiate the constitutionality of this law. Not to prejudge the Constitutional Court's decision if something like that happens. The Constitutional Court would declare this constitutional because decisions by the Serbian Parliament cannot be regarded by the general or special jurisdiction of the judicial authority. It's impossible. It's a lower organ. He can make government decisions, but he can't make congregation decisions. The only possible solution is that the decisions made by the Assembly act in the second degree of the Constitutional Court. Someone says, "What's he going to do?" The Constitutional Court has a certain practice. It can also apply analogy, and we can also amend and supplement the Constitutional Court Act to bring this matter to an end. The Constitutional Court is already acting on complaints filed by public-separation and judicial holders. It is by the Constitution, but it is not a constitutional appeal. So there's already a mechanism. It may need to be completed by the Constitutional Court Act, but it is not too late for any law to be found in the procedure before such situations arise that we resolve someone on these new amendments and additions to the Law. Take a closer look at the problem. Why is there a practice in the EU for courts of general jurisdiction or special courts but within the justice system of authorities? Because mostly national bank officials are being appointed by the executive authority. Which system, it doesn't matter. Certainly, the judicial authority is above the executive and legislative authority above the court and above the executive. The cap on everything is the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4210	MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4211	I think this debate is very good and very good and that we have managed to get close to the very center of the problem. We have prescribed the Constitutional Court Act does not provide for an appeal to the Constitutional Court in the manner in which it provides for this law. Thus, there is no harmonisation of the law and the law does not comply with our legal system, or Article 10. On the other hand, the question arises, there is a two-step question. The Constitutional Court Act does not provide for the Constitutional Court to decide, under appeal, the Constitutional Court in the first proceedings, and then by constitutional appeal, the Constitutional Court in the second proceedings. We are coming into a rather legal complex situation, and therefore not a regulated situation – how can the Constitutional Court decide to appeal to the Constitutional Court in the first proceedings. Now that the National Bank has proposed an amendment to remain a constitutional appeal, then we will have before the Constitutional Court, as it is imagined, of course, all sorts of interpretations, first-degree and second-degree proceedings, which again cannot. Of course this is all the consequence of what we talked about in August this year when politics did what it did with the National Bank of Serbia. Now, as we move on, since all of this has been regulated in a good way and since everything has been in accordance with the Constitution and our legal system, we are going to be increasingly engulfing with such and similar changes in our unconstitution and inconsistency with our legal system. I would ask Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic to explain to me what the procedure is, since the proposal does not show, under what law will the Constitutional Court decide by appeal to the Constitutional Court, and how will the Constitutional Court act under constitutional appeal? It's not clear to anyone here. I think that's the essential question.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4212	The word is Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4213	I'd be happy to answer that question for you, but it's directly relevant. In this house, there must be a special law that solves the problem worth hundreds of millions of euros of problems created that will eventually break across the state and back of citizens in this perfect functioning of a non-political governor, an independent National Bank and a perfectly harmonised legal system in which control and supervision function perfectly. When I deal with this problem, and when it comes to a once-resolved official, who needs to be under this law, eventually, if it happens at all, to determine the violation of his rights, then we'll talk about it. Today, we have more pressing, inherited problems to solve and which will soon be spoken of.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4214	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4215	So there's no answer. I assumed he wouldn't be here. It's impossible to give a legal answer. As for inherited problems, to solve all inherited problems and all problems in our society that are in line with the Constitution and the law and which are in favour of the citizens of Serbia, you will always have our support. As for what you said, I believe you meant Agrobank. I think the government has found a practical best solution, but still against the constitution, because they did not respect the rights of shareholders, because it was nationalisation, etc. That's what we talked about when we talked about the Agrobank Act. That's why you have, I think there are still business opportunities through the board to accept what we talked about, because it's obvious that the answers to the questions of the Crucial Court, how the Constitutional Court will act under the constitutional court's appeal and the constitutional appeal, and that one of the highest courts in this country will not exist in the first-degree and second-degree proceedings. That is why I am telling you, and my colleague Veroljub Arsic says, of course, what is a notorious fact and which we have previously pointed out, that the Constitutional Court Act does not foresee this situation, and that is why we, in our best interest, point to an unconstitutional solution that should not be voted on. I hear the vote is scheduled for today. That's not gonna solve anything. We don't solve the current problem. On the other hand, I think some colleagues who have opposed some of your views in some of their arguments have also made a mistake. The Constitutional Court decides on everything that comes out of the National Assembly, on all decisions, on laws, in the sense that they are in conformity with the Constitution and our legal system, and therefore on these acts, and for this is the procedure in the Constitution in Article 170, and it is called - constitutional appeal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4216	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4217	You know, if some other people like you and I could sit in a bit of a uncomfortable, yet comfortable space and they could talk long-term legal about economy, parallel law, world experience, maybe they'd be interested in legal perfection. Maybe I'd be at the same point of view if I came to a legal perfection as maybe, and maybe never, and maybe sometimes, we're solving a problem, like the Parliament, the state, the resolved functionator. I repeat, we have more intrusive problems, more evident, more facts that are the subject of a poor assessment or a different view of you and me. These problems were created in a good legal system, in a good earlier solution under the Law on the National Bank and by the Law on Banks, and everything was beautifully written, drawn, but there were quite a number of problems that condition the indifference of the economy and various abuses and violations of the law, violations of rights and many things that are wrong. I know the law has to be respected. We respect him. We've changed what's not right. We can't be perfect, but I'm sorry, please, your job and my job is to do what's in the best interests of the citizens. Let's leave the debate on that case when it happens and work together to create this practice. Today, believe me, the motive for this special law that was adopted here is the ultimate necessity, these are extorted solutions, not by inacting us, which we now propose to you, not even your own, which neither I nor I, does free you from the obligation to solve these problems for the citizens of Serbia to maintain trust in institutions, to retain trust in the National Bank, to keep trust in the fact that there is control and that someone cares about what is called the banking system, the security of savings, the value of the currency. That's why we're making these and these solutions. The time before us will show, very quickly, how I speak the truth and how right I am. Not long, you'll have a chance to see for yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4218	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4219	Mrs. Tabakovic, I would just like to inform you that the manner is not to threaten the opposition MP. As far as I'm concerned, I'll be in Serbia, as we'll all be in Serbia and the moment we control what you're going to do, because the government is changing. It's something that's normal. I would pray that in the future, in case anyone has any doubt that this is happening the way it's supposed to happen and that we preserve dignity in this home, that we don't threaten each other. The Democratic Party is not afraid of anyone, it protects no one who wrongs the law, but will defend all their members. We expect you to be treated that way, and you, Mr. President, to see, regardless of who we belong to, to which political option we have the same rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4220	The word is Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4221	Mr. Djelic, you're not DS, you're a member of the DS, and don't make every word you're about to see a threat. That's why I said it wasn't within my jurisdiction. Why do you have a threat when I say – I hope you will be in Serbia and will see the results of your work at the National Bank? You're the man who came from the French wing of "Mekinsia" in 2001. You've been a consultant in many countries. You went to Credit Agricole Bank, you came back. You just walk, you walk, you come. Only in this sense do I expect you to share with me the joy of success that will prove in the proper work and stop negative phenomena. Really, please, don't ever take my word for it as a threat, because I'm a person who doesn't threaten. It's just a matter of work. Why should I be threatening? Is it a promise that we'll do the best we can for anyone to be a threat? I don't know why you understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4222	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4223	Only with regard to the discussion that took place in the dialogue between distinguished fellow Mirko Chikiriz and the governor, where it is stated that there are much more urgent matters than the law itself and detailed analysis of each member, that there are urgent matters that you are solving. Again, I stick to the fact that if we get a certain bill, especially if we get that law with a request to be considered by an emergency procedure, if that law should take effect on the next day of publication, then I conclude that there is a special urgency to adopt such a thing. In that sense, I would even understand certain imperfections in the bill itself, but the only thing I cannot accept, I cannot accept that if there is any well-intentioned suggestion to amend this law there is a different treatment in terms of the proposal depending on which lines the bill has come from, but I will discuss it when my amendment comes to order.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4224	Mr. Chiquiriz, I see you registered in the system, but I have no reason to give you my word. (Mirko Chikiriz, from town: Replica. ) You are not mentioned in the answer. In the previous part, you had the right to a replica. (Mirko Chikiriz, from the post: MP's time? ) The time of the parliamentary group is up, and you are not authorized to propose. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, we're continuing with the amendments. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 10, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The National Bank of Serbia has adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4225	I'd still ask if my amendment would be accepted. I see someone's smiling. And I laughed, especially when I saw the amendment that had just become an integral part of the bill's proposal and when I saw the People's Bank's Declaration on the amendment submitted by our committee, the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Namely, in Article 10. The draft law states that Article 28 of Article 7 adds the position 8 which reads - against the decision on the resolution of the functionator of the National Bank - has the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court. Then, I read the words – with the statement of appeal excluding the right to file a constitutional appeal. At the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, I said, that second part of the sentence – with the statement of appeal excluding the right to file a constitutional appeal, regardless of what we can discuss and the first part of the sentence, this second part is absolutely against it. True, I remained in the minority session of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee, but I remained on the contrary, and I submitted the amendment where I asked that it be deleted and said "with the declared appeal excluded the right to file a constitutional appeal". That's what I suggested to erase. To this I received a statement from the National Bank of Serbia where my amendment is not accepted because, namely, the established independence of the National Bank foresees that explicit judicial protection should be established in the event of the resolution of central bank officials, not stating what I proposed to delete the anti-constitutional part. Then, the Assembly Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds proposes to remain part of the text of the bill – against a decision on the resolution of the officials of the National Bank of Serbia may appeal to the Constitutional Court, erases what I, too, proposed by my amendment to delete, by excluding a declaration of appeal from the right to file a constitutional appeal. So, it is identically proposing to delete, by adding to the Committee's amendment – within 30 days of the date of publication of this decision in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", specifying the deadline. It's okay, but I don't see why my amendment hasn't been adopted by either the Committee or the Governor of the National Bank, or the National Bank, and the same thing when it comes as a proposal from the Committee is being adopted. I don't think it should be divided into whether it's someone from some parliamentary group, but to see if the proposal is good or not good. In that sense, I asked whether my amendment was being adopted, to which a number of MPs laughed. I reiterated, and I laughed at that, especially because in the explanation of the National Bank of Serbia, which adopted the amendment of the Committee, the amendment is accepted because it is legally justified to assess the allegations made by the authorising officer in the context of this amendment, that the amendment complies with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So it gives me the right to be on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives right that there were discrepancies with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Finance Committee itself has declared itself in this direction, and the National Bank accepts that my proposal essentially agrees with the bill in this part with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We can discuss that the only one who has the authority to assess compliance with the Constitution is the Constitutional Court, but here I have indirectly received a statement from everyone that my proposal was in line with the Constitution and that this is in line, especially given that the Finance Committee itself said that, the National Bank said so, and the Constitutional Affairs and legislatory Committee, declaring the amendment to the Committee, practically gave the right to have the Finance Committee in a way eliminated the discrepancy with the Constitution, especially with regard to the existence of the right to a constitutional appeal provided for in Article 170. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, I ask the Governor of the National Bank to plead whether my amendment is accepted in essence or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4226	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4227	If anyone listened as carefully as I did, then it's clear why your amendment hasn't been adopted. You said you filed it in one text, and then you deleted it. I'm asking if it was a correction. Then you say, "It's identical. It's only missing 30 days." Wait, is it the same, so only someone didn't want to say that your amendment, or is it different from the final solution that was adopted? I know your remarks have always been welcome, that we've always been perfectly understood, but what the Finance Committee adopted and your proposal is not identical. Secondly, as far as I'm aware, a colleague from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has come out, you've had something missing in the very technical arrangement of the amendments, and I think it was a problem. As you can see, the final solution differs from your submitted amendment, and I can say that you had a good intention that was defined in the explanation, but that it was defined correctly in the amendment just as it was given by the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4228	The truth is, I've changed anything in the amendment. So, I had the same position at the first session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, there is Mr Jovanovic, and there are other people who were at that session of the Committee. So, at the Committee session, I made an observation that especially this second part of the sentence is contrary to the Constitution. I was quoting Article 170. The constitution where a constitutional appeal is provided and your associates were at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, it took place before the principle debate began. So, before the principle debate began, I pointed out the opposite of the Constitution. Secondly, when I saw that it was still voted, or that it was agreed that the bill was in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, I took and immediately wrote an amendment to fix the matter. Correcting that, I got a response from the People's Bank where you don't say anything about whether it corrects unconstitution or doesn't correct unconstitution. You are giving an unearthed explanation for the amendments made by Mrs Gordana Komic and Mr Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic, despite the fact that the first part of that article was not attacked but only this issue of constitutional appeal. There's no talking of a constitutional appeal. The main part of the argument, meaning the Finance Committee, was the alignment with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I do not dispute that there is the possibility of any individual who is authorized to make amends with someone else's repairs, but which is any shame if one repair is accepted and not accepted. Let the proposal of the Committee be accepted in respect of the time limit itself. I don't think it's right on that side, or in principle we're not correct about the very removal of constitutionality, or unconstitutionalness. The fact is that the proposal to amend the Committee adds a deadline which was not written in the draft law. I agree with the need to determine as close as possible, that this should be determined closer. But I don't see why it's a shame to admit that one of the opposition MPs was right. It was right until everyone else saw that the problem existed because the problem was found only after the session of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee, where a working meeting was held in Hall Two afterwards, where it was indicated, Mr. Arsic was present, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4229	The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4230	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 11 concerns the original Article 73, as regards the assets of the National Bank's income, expenditure and capital, at least that's what the chapter is called. So far, regarding the assets of the NBS, the Executive Board has adopted general acts, and the Governor has adopted individual acts in a specific case. The proposed solution shall abolish the competence of the Executive Board, and in the future both general and individual acts shall be adopted by the Governor. We believe that up to the present solution is better, rather considering that the assets of the NBS, i.e. the assets of the Republic of Serbia used by the NBS, are dinar and foreign, short-term and long-term placements, foreign exchange funds, securities, securities, assets and property rights in the possession of the NBS, movable and immovable things and financial assets in the NBS account. When position 1 remains in force, what is all this NBS property then it is quite clear that it would be much better for the General Act to be adopted by the Executive Board and that an individual act is brought by the Governor. A team before we take Article 6 which we talked about at the beginning of this debate, which is said to be elected by the NBS, if the governor proposes to the National Assembly of the Vice Governors, there is no reason why there is no trust in them. We think our amendment allows the NBS to perform its function much better.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4231	National MP Mirko Chikiriz, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4232	I think the proposed amendment is indeed consistent, and I think it's simpler for the governor to work with an old solution and more comprehensively, and therefore his responsibility is shared with the responsibility of the Executive Board, or the Executive Board would retain the powers it had. I won't be answering these amendments anymore, but since I didn't get my word back, I'm going to say something very briefly, since obviously one of my exhibits was misread. In fact, with my colleagues from our parliamentary group, I have said many times in this assembly, we are not at all satisfied with the SPO on the reforms and speeds of our country's approach to the EU. We were really very late compared to the civilized world and the former communist countries, and since we were in several governments after October 5th, we pointed that out to all governments. We argued that the reforms were not comprehensive, they were not fair, and often the solutions were quite bad. But reforms within the banking sector are certainly the best reforms implemented since 5 October. I don't think anyone should mention to Dafina or Jazda, or how the state television has timed and inherited the situation, and I think in 2000, the founding deposit to establish a bank was $10,000 or $12,000, and later deposits increased from a million and a half to three thousand euros, etc. If I'm not mistaken, the central bank is still holding 60% of all banks on me, which is a good solution. We have raised altitude, it seems to me in 2010 by the Law on guaranteeing citizens' deposits to 50,000 euros the state guarantees every citizen its savings stake, which is also good. It's bad that the government fama that banks carry the names of some foreign banks are actually old-fashioned legal entities. I think the prime minister has made quite a few unmeasured statements that they are robbing our citizens, making money, so he warns the financial sector not to act like this, which is not responsible for the prime minister's behaviour. But in any case, citizens should say that whether they have a name on a Serbian or a name for a foreign bank, domestic legal persons and that they operate here according to our regulations, that in this part, not only was banks' operations much better but rather better with the operations of all banks by 2000, but that harmonisation of legal regulations was also good. That's what I was talking about, and now we're going to some disharmony knowing that justifying ourselves that maybe legal solutions weren't good. No, the solutions were good, and the question was whether the controls were adequate, whether they were comprehensive, whether some banks were controlled, and some not what policy, bank management, etc. As a folk MP when there was a debate here on the Law on Judicial Artists, and as shown by the Agrobank affair, that the court experts had an asset worth a certain value of perhaps 10, 20, 30 times greater than it was real. It's not a question of the law and it wasn't a question of regulation of legal norms as far as the NBS Act is concerned, it was a question of people and crime for which they should in any case answer. What I was talking about, which is that we are with one harmonisation of the legal system, so the NBS Law was fully in line with the Constitution and the legal system now we seem to be largely consciously entering some kind of discrepancies for some solving of practical problems, and practical problems can be solved in some other way. I think this is good and my discussion is constructive. First of all, for reasons to break the fam that the post campaign prime minister often irresponsibly repeated, that the banking and financial sectors in Serbia exist to rob Serbian citizens and to raise money from this country. Then the question arises why banks with a majority share of the state's assets and capital did not give our citizens more favourable conditions than banks, possibly with the origin of foreign capital, and it is obvious that banks with majority state capital, and banks with majority private capital, acted equally on the domestic market because of the general opportunities in the country of Serbia. I think that all of this I point to is well-intentioned, constructive and another one seems to me, and later on, from other levels, a reminder to the prime minister that the financial sector is very sensitive to any statement of authority, especially the statement of the first man of the government, and that in any case anyone who chooses to invest his money is very well listening to what he will say about it, as a potential investor, to the prime minister. If the prime minister, someone as a potential investor, tells you at the beginning that you are someone who will come here to rob Serbian citizens and send a clear message to the financial sector that this is not the way to behave. The financial sector will surely seek a more suitable market and will ask to invest where the prime minister will otherwise treat it, respect its capital, and of course that communist famu about someone setting up a company to get rich, or set up a bank to make a profit should be broken. Profit, making profit on legal and proper grounds is good. It's good to get as much money as possible, it's good to have as many banks as possible, regardless of whether the capital is domestic or foreign, but we need to have a different relationship with them, and it seems to me that the prime minister has figured it out, and lately, as far as it goes, he's been silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4233	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4234	Dear President, the esteemed governor, as many as a few months ago, or in August, we have already had an urgent debate on amendments and amendments to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, and we at the DSS have then criticised the urgency of these changes, rather thinking and focusing on whether these amendments, the amendments to the law will refer to a better supervisory function of the NBS over the financial system, better regulation of stability and price, and much less we have paid attention to how many amendments and additions of the NBS Act are in line with the European regulation, how many other parliamentary groups have dealt with you at that time. You now justify, here only after a few months, though, we said and then that it might be very easy to happen that after a few months we will arrive because of that urgency in the situation that now, as is now the case of urgency, again we are bringing some amendments and additions to the NBS Act. In your explanation, one of the main reasons and objectives that are to be achieved by these amendments and additions is mainly to this harmonisation with European legislation, when it comes to the NBS Act. However, if by only a brief analysis we pull the thread through the changes and additions of the current law, we see the following, so let's see where these fundamental changes are. Article 4 adds the NBS to the protection of users of financial services, not to extend further as this entire position is precisely read, it will be clear; Article 6, deletes the view that the Statute of the NBS confirms the National Assembly, and then is published in the "Official Messenger", but introduces a new position which says the NBS has the Statute to be published in the "Official Messenger" of the RS. It's been pretty under attack here, and, of course, we from the DSS have submitted an amendment to that article. The new position of Article 8 has only re-formed the business of the Institute for the Making of Wallet in Topcider, nothing fundamental has changed; in Article 20. – the interpretation of the related persons with the governor, only a new position is referred to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, of course leaving out this number, as was the case in the present position; Articles 21 and 22 add new views, which stipulate that if the Vice Governor or member of the Council ceases his post before the time, that the new Vice-Governors and new members of the Council will be elected, means within the expiry of the term of office of those predecessors, as well as Article 26, which states that, if the NBS function ceases before the end of the term of office, the new one is elected within 90 days, it is specified within what time period they are elected. After all, you also heard the explanation of our MP Radojko Obradovic on that amendment. In Article 28 of the new position against the resolution decision, the NBS official shall have the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court but not to file a constitutional appeal. We heard two hours, minors, a debate between our fellow MPs whether or not the member is constitutional. In Article 73... (President: I'm sorry to interrupt, but we are now discussing an amendment under Article 11. I mean, I'm just bringing you back to the debate. Here I go. I am now with article 11 which is being amended by article 73 and, of course, also join the discussion to defend the amendments of our MP Radojko Obradovic. We don't see the purpose and integrity of changing attitude 3 that says the governor is now bringing in acts on procurement, use, availability of assets and why all of this is a shift from the responsibility of the executive board, why the earlier executive board could bring in general acts and the governor only special acts, as far as these changes are concerned, would simply want to know about, at the end of the day and the public. I know that Mrs. Governor and how she keeps the public here clear about what we're talking about, how many of these are, let me say essential or less fundamental changes, in fact, consistent with the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4235	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Radojko Obradovic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4236	One of the basic things that has to apply to the National Bank is to be independent and independent in fulfilling its functions. For the entire banking sector, or the entire banking sector is based on trust. It should be reminded how the banks actually came into existence. Banks, therefore, and central banks were created out of need, or when they realized that, in fact, when people leave deposits or citizens leave deposits, not all deposits are available at all times, or that there is always some reserve that can be financed. In some times when banks were really banks, to prove how reliable they are and to create trust among citizens, these were necessarily buildings built from stone, very powerful, to show that the deposit that was left in the bank was secure. Now, as time went by, the banks started getting glass facades, so the deposits became as safe as new facades. A colleague, Chikiriz, spoke about deposit insurance, and it is a great thing that the state of Serbia has secured deposits of up to 50,000 euros. There is an EU directive, there is some recommendation to apply it in Serbia, to secure deposits of up to 100,000 euros, and that is an excellent solution. But if you look closely at the data, at this point in Serbia, about nine and a half billion is total savings. I think about eight billion are foreign deposits, a billion and some are dinar deposits. All this needs to be secured by the Deposit Insurance Agency. They have not yet published the data for 2011, but in 2010, they had 140m euros. If they had the inflow they had in 2010, they now have no more than 200m euros in their account. It's not enough to pay off deposits just for "New Agrobank". The secured deposits in the New Agrobank were 250m euros. It's a great thing that Serbia guarantees, but it comes to you as with all those things, how free healthcare, free schooling, it's all free, only if there's no money to make it happen for free, then it's not valid for free. Unfortunately, what happened with "New Agrobank", or "Agrobank", and "New Agrobank", shows us that the state is going to have a hard time making those deposits happen. I think it's better to have laws that are applicable, and to guarantee only what we can realize, than to promise a lot without being able to realize all that. This particular member allows the mandate of all officials to be a steppe and to be changed each year by one of the National Bank officials. To be honest, this solution has already been in the law before. I have to admit, I don't have any positive experience related to these solutions. I didn't notice any difference when this solution was in force compared to the solution when the mandate lasted the same. I don't think only this attitude will enable and increase the independence of the NBS. If we go back to Serbia's practice, because ideal solutions without practice also mean nothing, you are the fifth governor's name and last name. There were six of them since 2000, because Mr Jelasic, by changing the Constitution, was elected twice. Four of your predecessors didn't leave their post by running out of mandate. Each one of them left by being replaced. Mr. Soskic resigned, has not been replaced, but it was clear that it would be replaced by a change of law. All four of the governors so far have been changed by finding a form to change the law. The change in the law has established a transitional period. That's how it happened with Mr Dinkic in 2003. That's how it happened with Kori Udovici in 2004. That's how it happened with Radovan Jelasic. It was almost like that this year. We got beat up by Šoškić with his resignation, but the law imposed some kind of deadline. Such a solution may be good, but practice in Serbia shows that, compared to NBS, we have a very flexible relationship and that changing the law allows any official to change. One of the first laws this assembly passed was the amendment and addition of the Law on Civil Servants, as each party in Serbia, each government in Serbia advocated the professionalisation of civil servants. One law has established that there is a deadline when they can change. They were also amended by law, although the law guaranteed them the continuity of functions on the mandate they were elected to. I think it's a long way to the Central Bank's independence. Everyone in this room has our best wishes for independence. Practice will show how good it will be. Unfortunately, the practice so far speaks the opposite of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4237	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 13, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers this amendment to be in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4238	I accept the amendment submitted by the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4239	Thank you. I find that the governor of the NBS has accepted the amendment, and the amendment has become an integral part of the law. Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MP Gordana Komic and joint MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The National Bank and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers this amendment to be in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4240	Thank you. Article 14 of the proposed text amending and supplementing the law reads: "The Governor and Vice-Governors of the NBS, elected under the NBS Act", which states in brackets the number of Official Messengers in which the basic text of the law and subsequent amendments and additions were published, "their functions set out in this law continued to be carried out until the end of the term of office to which they were elected". By amendment, this Member shall be deleted. The explanation is more than obvious – none of the other members of this law are covered either by the governor or by the vice governors. In practice, you have one declarative member of the law that is not related to anything else they change and supplement on the subject, and that is that those who have already been elected, whether the governor and three vice governors, will remain in office, as set out in this law, will continue to carry out until the end of the term of office they are elected to. These amendments and additions to this law are not prescribed to shorten their mandate. It shall not be prescribed that both governors and vice governors have been elected to the term of office of the previous NBS official, whether he resigns or is relieved, however. So, otherwise we don't deal with it, this law, but it still states in Article 14 that the governor and the Vice-Governors remain in office regardless of the application of other members of the law, which applies to the Board of Governors. The will not to delete this member gives me two messages. The first is a message that's almost psychological. Don't let anyone think any of these members apply to the elected governor and the vice governor, which is not possible. There is no way to interpret the reduction of the term of office of the elected governor or three vice governors by none of the members of the law. The second is that without any need, since the deputy governor and governor's mandate is already defined by law, it further determines what their mandate is. The fact that the vice - governors were elected in the Assembly, being resolved in the Assembly, as well as the governor, shows that we are not sure that without a clearly written member, it will not occur to someone. It's another kind of message that's unnecessary, like this one. So, if the governor and the vice governors do anything that doesn't comply with the NBS Act or anything that's defined as the reason for the release, that's what's going to happen. I think we all stand for it and there is no member of the law that would guarantee any vice governor or any governor that absolutely nothing will happen, that the mandate will last. And in the principle debate, I suggested that it be considered that this member should be left out of the law precisely because he is not connected to the election of the President of the Board of Governors or members of the Board of Governors of the NBS. Now there is a new solution that most will support or will not, but to the term of office of governor and vice governor none of the other provisions apply. Much more importantly, this would be, with the explanation of the amendments, namely the requirement to delete Article 14, I hope that the agreement in the DS parliamentary group will send a proposal to the president of the Assembly, that both the NBS Governor and the governors at the session on the topic of current debate with MPs on monetary stability, on plans and on everything else that the NBS is obliged to share as a plan, as a vision, as a list of problems, and that at one such session with the current topic, it is perfectly clear which of the NBS officials deserves to be on that post. I have no doubt that all who have been elected to the Assembly should be, but I think this is one session with the current topic needed first of all by the NBS. If I were NBS, I'd have that initiative on my own. It certainly takes the general public to hear in the debate and debate in the National Assembly about what has been done so far, changed for the better in the NBS and the plans that await all of us when it comes to monetary stability and agreement with the fiscal policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4241	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4242	I wanted to comment only when Mr. Chikiriz opened the debate on the subject that you are now talking about, but by criticising the existing situation, I wanted to say that I am happy that the President of Parliament has not changed his practice and kept his promise, that he has shown special favor to the MPs of the opposition, because he allowed Mr. Chikiriz to subsequently submit a request that he is an authorised representative, which gave him time. I was there. My practice has enabled me to do so. He spoke well of it for a while. At the time, I wanted to say that the earlier practice of talking to the governor and his associates, achieved on the Finance Committee, was simply ignored today, but that's not the point. The People's Bank is expecting a report on three months' work. With pleasure, we continue this inherited practice. If the business opportunity allows, why not as you suggested, I said that no decision in the National Bank will be made behind the curtain and all that is not the subject of public harassment and harassment, it is certain that it will be and may be the subject of debate. The one elected by this parliament must be responsible for this parliament, just keeping accounts for the plan, but also for the results it achieves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4243	Thank you. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4244	We're almost there, and I have to notice one interesting thing. A total of 16 amendments were proposed by the Accounting Committee. Of those 16 amendments, 14 have the same text. I am afraid that one group of our colleagues who are not with us in parliament now can seek copyright, because they were the first to protect the copyright of the amendment in this House - is deleted. So in this bill of 16 amendments, 14 have the same text - is deleted. This is a good point of reference to the opposition's relationship with the proposed law. As for Article 14, Mrs Comic read it and there is no need for me to read it. Deleting, abandoning this member has no legal fact on any official and erasing that member doesn't change anything in the essence of this law. Not one word of this law mentions the governor and the vice governor who are now elected. It is understood that if they are not mentioned anywhere that their mandate is shortened, that they continue to do their job and that this member is completely excessive in this proposed text of the law. So, the good will of the governor would mean that at least this member who doesn't change anything and doesn't mean anything, wipes out.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4245	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4246	With all due respect to Mr. Radojko Obradovic, who is an engineer and Mrs. Komic, who is with long parliamentary practice, but an expert in physics and a lot of what I am an economist, none of us three are lawyers. The lawyers claim that such a provision should exist, because it is right that what is not written is not meant, so believe it or not, I have agreed to their interpretation that this is not an excessive provision. But that there should be and there is a certain message, given that the whole debate on amendments to the law has been conducted in a slightly tense political atmosphere, where it wanted to leave the impression that the problem is the very personality that has been chosen, which is thus denied.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4247	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4248	The truth is that none of the three of us, who have now participated in the debate, are formal education lawyers. It is also true that this National Assembly brings an act that we all need to understand whether we are lawyers or not. It's complete nonsense, not what we've exchanged here, but a general attitude. Only lawyers understand that. If that were true, then the conditions for running would be to sit here with 250 lawyers. I can't imagine what the National Assembly would look like. So, the National Assembly means our different formal education and that is the wealth of each Parliament, of course, and the obligation to ask, learn and acquire knowledge and skills from areas from which we do not have formal education. But unfortunately, at this same session, these same lawyers claimed it was okay to waive the right to file an individual constitutional appeal in article 10. So he can't do both again, or we asked two different lawyers. We had a period where the lawyers claimed we should stay, now we have a law without provisions behind which the lawyers stood. We claim that a provision, that a whole article 14 can be an argument that it should remain just some lawyer's jurisprudence that has some amount of vanity. The vanity is not a good ally, vanity blinds, vanity prevents us from seeing the context as it is in the sum of the facts of those who are and who will not disappear because our vanity ignores them. The facts in Article 14 are that it's a clean surplus in this law. Perhaps if this discussion of the law were to last another day, it is possible that the same thing that happened to Article 10 would happen and the lawyers would change their minds, which I would welcome. Not because the amendment was signed by me or another fellow MP, but because it would prove that we understand what legal reasoning means. No, at least I couldn't hear on the Committee on European Integration, where I had the opportunity to communicate with the representatives of the National Bank, nothing that looked like an explanation. On the contrary, one of the representatives said that this member could stand or not have to. Considering that no harm will be done either if it remains, nor if it is deleted, because it does not produce consequences, I am spending more time in an explanation to make some decision all together when we are in the future having arguments to submit amendments, yes or we have a firm and clear explanation of the legal profession, which is irrefutable. If we had him here, I'd be the first to withdraw the amendment, it's no problem. Or let all of us, who are different formal education, have a good basis to defend a position that only the lawyers think is right. For the record, I have nothing against lawyers, legal knowledge, interpretations or arguments. On the contrary, without them, I would not be able to conduct a debate here, without the help of a professional service in the Assembly, who is a lawyer, without colleagues who help him, but a general explanation not good enough to create something to convince me as a subject of the amendment to Article 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4249	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4250	The vanity isn't just about lawyers, and thank God it's not about all the lawyers. All this talk about the law, it could be about me falling into the water and forgetting, if I kept my mouth shut that vanity and the lawyers were going unfortunately with each other. Because of Marina Papadakis, Dejan Devic, Ms Svetlana Kozarev, Mrs Tanja Jovanic and the team who worked on this, because each of their e-mails in the exchange of communication to these views ends in a sentence – suggestions are welcome. The openness to learning and receiving someone else's attitude, I'd like it to become a practice among lawyers. In this way I truly express my gratitude to them in the way they cooperated, working on this law all these 90 days. I repeat, we were within the deadline and we were able to comply with the law, to do legal deadlines, and to form all the bodies that the law imposed by not wanting us to stay stubborn or deaf to objections that some found, some unfoundedly appear in public. We're a day, two out of deadline, but each of them did their job and one more time to conclude. When something goes out of my mind, when I have to forget, Mrs. Comic reminds me not to be in debt to my associates one such commendation. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4251	The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4252	I'm afraid this kind of discussion won't get us anywhere, and, 6 for reasons that if there were formal conditions for MPs, then there would certainly be. If there were only lawyers sitting here, or if only lawyers could discuss laws, construction engineers only about the way bridges are built, then parliament shouldn't look like this either. It's our duty to read the laws. I've carefully read this article. I'm not a lawyer, nor have I ever had the ambition to interfere with lawyers in the business. As someone who's worked for a long time in college, I appreciate my profession, but I appreciate everyone else. I remain in that this member of the law, if deleted, will not change anything in the law. I am here to give full recognition to all the people who have worked on this law, but the lawyers from our party and our MP groups have said the same thing we are saying. Like those lawyers claimed for some other members that this was completely different than the applicant's intensities. I don't mind if we start talking about both criteria and school preparation of officials who perform certain functions. How come the Minister of Trade and Telecommunications is a doctor in education? So should we each put a big question mark in front of anything he says about the area of telecommunications? This member will obviously remain, does not produce any legal fact and that is a fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4253	Thank you. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted the 15th amendment. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Radojko Obradovic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4254	This is our final amendment to the amendment and addition of the law. It reads, like everyone before it, we suggest that this member be deleted. When I look back at the debate we had in the last two days, Thursday and today, I am still not convinced that these amendments contribute to the independence of the National Bank. On the other hand, in the previous period in Serbia, for example in the last 20 years, as far as I'm concerned, independence has been quite misused by the old National Bank. I remember in the '90s and somewhere until mid-2000, 2005/06. For years, the National Bank allowed no kind of control, because it was considered a threat to independence. The National Bank has its functions, primarily monetary policy, price stability, foreign reserve, bank control, banking sector, lising, voluntary pension funds, etc., but as regards the application of the Public Procurement Act, it is exactly the same as anyone else in the system. As far as any other law is concerned, it is also identical. I'm not saying you did it, it's what some of your predecessors did. There were problems because they did not allow any control, because they considered it a threat to the independence of the National Bank, as well as many other institutions that are independent. Only we politicians, who belong to political parties, are certainly not independent, are certainly only representing our political parties' interests. Here, you've told us now that we really shouldn't interfere beyond our narrow waist. I'm sure that's not the case. As I absolutely do not doubt your good intentions and I have already said, I will repeat it in the end, you have our full support in implementing politics. I hope we get a chance to talk about this policy. There is absolutely no one, as far as we are concerned, any doubt in your good intentions. After 90 and a few days there is a fact, with all the good intentions, the functionaries of the National Bank were not elected within the time limit. It's not your fault, it's the fault of the National Assembly, because the National Assembly was supposed to propose to the director of the board and president of the council. The National Bank has nothing to do with this, because it is the responsibility of the Committee on Finance and the National Assembly, and that fact remains, as the fact that the National Bank will be independent or not, we will see it in the period ahead. I think that in developing countries, and Serbia certainly is a developing country, quite mixed up in terms of independence, uncritically taking roles and central banks from some developed systems. Developed countries that have fully decorated economic systems have different problems. The role of the National Bank and the role of central banks in a completely different system, where the Central Bank is the main regulator, in a system where the country is developing, where there are serious development problems, there must be a far greater degree of co-ordination between the Government and the Central Bank than is the case with developed countries with regulated financial markets. These are all topics for parliamentary issues on the current topic, for the National Bank's report and for other topics. There'll be an opportunity to talk about it. We can't support this law for the reasons we put out on Thursday and we talked about today, which, of course, doesn't mean that when there's another topic, if you go out with a program that we can stand behind, that we won't support it at that point. Today at the vote, which will likely follow this session, the DSS will vote against amending the National Bank Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4255	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4256	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Governor, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this discussion over the past few days has been productive, as much as it has been about a very important topic for our citizens, in a country that has experienced two hyperinflation, where foreign savings has been confiscated, where we have had huge problems in the banking system, where the challenge in every country and today in Europe, as well as in the world, is to maintain this financial system, and finally, in the case of the EU, the fact that, as we are discussing this law, there is a great deal of preparation and reform of the supervision of the financial system of the euro area, first of all, but also the general EU. These are all topics that rightly deserve great attention from the National Assembly, including our citizens. The Democratic Party welcomes the fact that the motion for the NBS law has accepted a number of amendments. That did improve this text. However, we believe that these amendments and amendments to the law are not sufficiently responding to the challenges of central banking and the need to really ensure the independence of our central monetary institution. That is why, and only because of that DS will not support this law, because we expect that, as we had the opportunity only three months after the first amendments and the addition of the law, we will once again consider these, that after certain, in the months to come, we will again have amendments and additions to the NBS Act. I would like to say that, it seems to me that we all care about ensuring the independence of this institution, because it is one of the key guarantees of the stability of our currency, on the one hand and on the other hand, that the NBS is able to make choices for what it is since 2003 to date, because this has not changed in the parent law, the NBS Act, to meet its key objective, which is to curb inflation, to ensure price stability. We expect that, through further amendments and additions to the law, we will carry out further depolitisation of this institution, to bear in mind that we also have formal ones, this time, and it is good that the governor of the NBS has asked for suggestions that the European Commission, which the IMF, which the European Central Bank, has a good base and we will see at the application of these amendments and the addition of what their impact will be. What awaits us now is to see if Serbia will record inflation in the world this year and next. We'll have a debate during the budget, and then I'm sure part of the government will say it's the previous government's fault. But the fact is that inflation isn't slowing down so far, it's going to be a big challenge for the Central Bank. We heard the finance and business minister, who says it absolutely needs Serbia to be stable and that the dinar would be stable if we had two to three billion euros per year of foreign direct investment. That's right. It is certain that the response to dinar stability cannot be further borrowing through Eurobonds launched in March of last year. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, the DS cannot support such changes and additions, because they do not correct enough what has been made worse by previous changes and additions and because they do not bring us in enough line with what the principles of modern central banking are. But it is certain that we will insist on weeks and months that all controls of the financial system will be carried out until the end, that no one is spared and that we want the Central Bank to fully meet its objectives. I hope that we will also have opportunities through the work reports to consider what will be achieved this year and that Serbia, hopefully, in the next two to three years, will have the opportunity to finally bring inflation down to something that already exists in the region, that Serbia will have the opportunity to preserve the stability of the financial system and that the Central Bank will be fully depolitised. I will not conclude, as I have repeatedly sought during this debate, but I think it is something that costs nothing, which is quite possible and will not harm anyone, nor will it fall, as I now hear it is often said in our political mile, no one will fall from their head if they resign to a post, to a political function, if it is already elected. In this way, I think we would really have a step forward and ensure that, when our governor is hanging out and discussing, above all, the way Serbia will be more involved in this system of central banks of Europe, that he talks with full capacity and legitimacy, knowing that he is being treated and that he has a function that is in line with what he really is a European standard and a European principle. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4257	The word is Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4258	In the end, I just wanted to say one thank you to my colleagues who participated in the debate, but I have to ask because of my colleagues Obradovic and the currently absent Gordana Comić to ask – was I confusing when I said we had a position. You know that I've been very often conflicting my views with a legal one, but in a thing like this that's really purely legal – whether or not a provision should stand or not, as an excess or an additional reinforcement, I simply agreed to give advantage to lawyers for one simple reason. Whenever we have a problem in life, or when we're right or wrong, who are we hiring and who are we asking to solve this? Lawyers who finished the bar exam. It's simple, out of respect for the profession, and not by any chance because of the reason that sometimes I can discuss the reasons for my resolution in any body. I say that to the general public and I promise, out of respect for the legal profession. If I wasn't clear enough, I probably didn't, I greatly appreciate the work of all MPs here, including many of us who are happy to engage, I'm sure, and very justified in considering legal and legal problems. Also, I thank you, Mr. Djelic, for your constructive conclusion. I can tell you that inflation that is partly transmitted, overrun, inherited, controlled, will be even more subject to a transparent assessment, reports and estimates from the NBS website to communication with this Parliament and there will be no moment of transfer of responsibility, to what cannot be transferred, nor does anyone tend to say – we just record or observe what is happening. This is exactly how I want the NBS to work -- not to be simple registers of upcoming high prices, but to be able to do mathematical models, creative young people, who need to think for themselves, and have them in the NBS, to predict events, and to warn negative situations, and, most importantly, never to lie to ourselves about what kind of situation we are in, to achieve one maximum openness to parliament, to the public, and to present the most accurate and precise possible data, but only those, and only when it does not harm overall financial stability. You can count on me in this respect, and my capacity as governor is nothing at risk, nor a frozen political function. On the contrary, he was strengthened by experience in this parliamentary work. My capacity hasn't been reduced by any kind of problem, because I don't have a minus on my current account and I don't owe anyone any coffee unpaid. It's the credibility I have and I want to promote it in the NBS and among my colleagues. I would like to say that what is currently a pleasure of co-operation results in targeted inflation of 4%, plus-minus 1.5%. But as you have heard publicly, it is only before the end of next year that it is possible to return to that framework without succumbing to the pressures of those who want to spend other people's money. There was last time my former colleague from the Committee, Mr. Kasalovic, who gave me that support and she means something to me. Believe me, even if I don't have any support from anyone, I'll do what's best for stability in Serbia, so as long as they want to listen and stand for me, I'm there. When they won't, God's health, says our people, no one was born as governor, not as party president, not as MP, not as lawyer, not as anything. Replacement and billing will be the basis for further cooperation. I thank you, and I hope you've forgiven me for my great talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4259	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4260	Thank you, Mr. President. Governor, co-workers and colleagues, I will repeat that we cannot vote for this law because we said in August that it limits the independence of the NBS, not independence. When she's independent, she'll have to write it in the Constitution. We, as you know, are for the change in the Constitution that you all brought together six years ago. We'd like the NBS to be independent. For now, she can only be on her own. Right? That's what the Constitution says. Yes, inflation is one of two NBS obligations. There is no colleague Obradovic here, and I have to comment with him on the commitments in developing countries, that the National Bank is coordinating with the government. That's exactly the opposite of independence and future independence. The functions are clear, in the NBS Act, of the National Bank, which is primarily inflation, i.e. price stability and course. Everything else is the majority chosen by the people in the election. That's why independence is important, for the governor to stand up to a bad, destructive, expendable, wasteful government policy. How can he stand up unless he's independent? I appreciate your frozen function, but the frozen function is still a function. After all, if we had a unique example in Europe that the president of the party is also the secretary of defence and the co-ordinator of the Security Service, etc., which I don't think exists anywhere, what wouldn't even be the governor in office, even if it was frozen? The inflation will be your first task. If you're on your own, you'll have to come into conflict with the government. Neither does the IMF sending a technical mission believe in budget parameters, that 5% will be inflation next year when it is 12% in this quarter. How long will it be in the last trimester this year? Not to mention the 2% GDP growth, when this year is likely to be a 1% drop. It's a job, in my opinion, of the one who runs the central bank to tell the government, as the IMF says, that's unrealistic, and that's going to affect the overall situation in the country and instability, etc., and as governor, I have to react and tell the truth, it's not good. In order to perform the function of governors in this way, he must be independent and independent. It's not our fault, what Rade says, that the NBS officials haven't been elected yet. I don't know what it's got to do with us not being chosen. The ruling majority, after all, is responsible for that not happening. I don't remember us from the opposition doing any heavy obstructions, so you couldn't do it. You're in no condition to make a deal so far, which proves that there is interference between you two. As governor of the NB, if the minister comes in here, and you're more independent than he is, and the story of some banks' collapse, the story of deposits, and it's flushing out hundreds of millions of euros, the big damage is 600 million, the deposit is secured and unsecured, there goes Agrobank, and then there goes New Agrobank, and then it's "Vojvodine Development Bank," I don't think it's all a contribution to the stability of the financial system and any trust in this country in order for someone to come to invest money. You don't have to be a lawyer or an economist. You can be just a man who has savings and you can be scared about that kind of thing, raise your savings. Such behaviour by the executive authority should be criticised by an independent and independent governor, as it is the function of the governor and the NB to preserve the stability of the financial system. I don't think that's a contribution to stability. That's one suggestion we have to give. We've said this more than once, and we'll stay in those positions to advocate independent and independent institutions. After all, we've come to these changes because someone who is now the authority for you, and it's good that someone outside is the authority for you, on the west side, I think, said it's not good and you fixed it. Let's see what you do with what's your first assignment as governor of Central Bank, and that's inflation. It seems to me that we are on our way to becoming a leader, as Boris Tadic would say, in the region, but not only in the region but also beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4261	Alexandra Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4262	Thank you, Mr. President. Given that the large number of amendments that have been made by many parliamentary groups have not been adopted, above all those that we stand behind, which relate to the independence of the work of the NB, LSV will vote against this law in the Voting Day, which I believe will follow this session. We voted against the first amendments and additions in August, given that the majority of all the shortcomings that MPs and the international and professional public were then highlighted, given that we believe that the proposed changes and complements not only do not increase the independence of the NB but also further lead the NB into an independent position. We believe that this law cannot possibly have our support and we fear that in a few months we will have amendments and additions to this law in the same way that we are doing now, when the promoter will have to listen to what the MPs told him in this assembly and what the professional public was saying, what the international public was saying, because we see it now. Unfortunately, apart from those amendments made by the Finance Committee, the Proposer has adopted very few amendments that we believe would somewhat improve the quality of this law and therefore the LSV parliamentary group will certainly vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-05-0.u4263	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has concluded a debate on one item on the agenda of the session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Monday, November 5th, 2012, starting at 2.30pm, as the Day of Vote on the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Thank you, and I'm setting a break by 2:30. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. The first item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the national bank of Serbia Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – 12 abstentions – there were none, there were not those who did not vote, of a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the components of the Bill's proposal have become amendments to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on Articles 10 and 13, as well as the amendment to which a new Article 6a is added after Article 6. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – four, against – one, with abstention – 138 out of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 134 of the total 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 143 of the total 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 138 of the total 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Delevic, Bozidar Djelic and Mirko Cvetkovic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote – 141 of the total 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Delevic, Bozidar Djelic and Mirko Cvetkovic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote – 141 of the total 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 out of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 out of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Gordana Komic and joint MPs Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 134 of the total 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 144 out of the 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 out of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 136 out of the 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Gordana Komic and joint MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 136 out of the 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic together submitted the 15th amendment. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 out of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I remind you he's a member of 16. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 versus – 10 abstentions – no, three of the 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – 13, the abstentions – there are no, there were no those who did not vote from a total of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Nada Kolundžija, at a session on 1 November 2012, at 12 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 135 out of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of and decision-making of the session's single agenda, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Dear People's MPs, before we finish today's work, and pursuant to Article 101(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the interrupted Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 will continue on Tuesday 6 November 2012, starting at 10.00 hours, continuing work on the established agenda of the session. Thank you.
