ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-20-0.u4796	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 107 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, today you have the right, after opening a session and determining the number of MPs, to seek information and explanations. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-20-0.u4797	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is World Child Day, November 20th. That is why I would like first to find out what problems children in Serbia are facing today and to ask the government of the Republic of Serbia for the end. SVM MPs would like to highlight the importance of children and call on the government of the Republic of Serbia to really put the issue of child protection in Serbia. We would like to draw attention to just some of the problems that characterize their lives: poverty, unequal access to quality health care, unequal access to quality education, exclusion of the poorest children from the social protection programme. The government of the Republic of Serbia should continue to intensify the reform processes that should enable the inclusion and equal chances of all children, including the necessary changes in the education, health and social protection system, which would ensure that those most vulnerable children can exercise all their rights. We must not allow the quality of the education and health system to be destroyed. I will list five key areas that are defined as the most important, or five key measures that could help. First of all, reducing child poverty. We are all, unfortunately, aware of the fact that issues for families are getting smaller and smaller, that procedures are so complicated that, according to statistics, three out of five children, who have the right to a child's allowance, do not exercise that right. The second step is to increase the quality of child health care. It is necessary to reduce the cost of treatment, waiting lists, modernising equipment in health care institutions, improving the conditions of treatment in the hospital and simply allowing parents to be free of stress and at no extra cost to be with their child when treated in hospitals. The third key measure is to cover every child with quality education. Despite the Law on the founding of education and education and inclusion systems, some children are still simply excluded from the education system. The fourth measure is to enable children to live in the family, since children with developmental difficulties are still placed in isolated institutions, regardless of what should be allowed to live in family and community. The basic reason for bringing these children into isolated institutions is precisely the inability of their parents to respond to the special needs of children. The fifth key measure proposed is that children should be protected from violence, because based on statistics from NGOs, unfortunately two thirds of children, aged two to 14 years, have already experienced some kind of psychological aggression or physical violence. What is the biggest problem is, in fact, the question of whether there is decentralisation, because regardless of the national action plan that exists and which is current, it is poorly implemented, i.e. it is not harmonised or action, nor measures in different sectors and public services dealing with children. There is no system record of the position of children and of the services available to them. After the problems and key measures that concern children in Serbia today and which require urgent resolution, as well as finding that there is still a lack of coordination, I mean mainly the social, health and education sectors, i.e. that there are no coordinated measures and actions in different sectors and public services dealing with children, and that there is still no system record of the situation of children and services available to them, the question is how is the implementation of the Social Protection Act, which was adopted in 2011? Under the law, local self-government has great responsibility for providing local social protection, including child protection. Could the ministry be able to provide information on how this law is implemented, how this law is implemented, whether social protection and in reality is decentralised and in what way? Is there enough resources for that? What services for the children of the municipality can they provide from their budgets in the first place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-20-0.u4798	Thank you. Let me just express my satisfaction that you are actively involved in the work of our Committee on the Rights of the Child and I thank the representatives of all parliamentary groups, since this is the committee that will mark this day in two schools in Novi Sad, with all its members. I call on everyone to give maximum effort, because this is not a topic that should be a matter of one political party, this is a topic for which we all have to fight together. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-20-0.u4799	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would agree with this remark you've made. I have a question I would like to refer to, say, Alexander Vukic, as the first Prime Minister in charge of fighting corruption, or Ivica Dacic, or the prosecution, or the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, or anyone in this country who can answer the question - in what way, under what conditions, and how is there a famous transfer of power in local self-government? How does it happen that the parties that lost in the elections become the first authorities? How does it happen that parties that have not crossed the census enter local parliaments? Is it true that in all local self-governments in Serbia are exposed to threats and blackmails and that they have been offered bribes, that they are actually forced, forced or forced to participate in these new coalitions, to participate in the established authorities throughout Serbia? The reason why I ask this is, of course, an event from Kickinda, where, according to committeewoman Azre Valentić, it is primarily offered money and functions in some future local self-government and then referred threats, given that it belongs to a party that should participate in the transfer of power. I'm from Novi Sad, a town where something like that happened. We were witnesses in both Novi Sad and Zrenjanin, from the fact that there were pressures, coercion, attempts at corruption, where committees were held in quarantine days before the assembly sessions, carried out until these sessions, so as not to accidentally change the views and sides they belonged to. I don't think it's simply an atmosphere in which local self-government should function and that it's not a good message that's being sent to citizens who go to these local elections, thinking that the results of these elections have any effect on how power will be formed. We know what happened in Novi Sad, in Zrenjin. We've seen what's been tried to happen in Kickindi, whether we should expect it in Somboro, Subotica, in all of those local self-governments where local authorities are not based on the results of the elections, based on an identical model by which the republican government works. I pray to anyone, whoever you consider to be one of those I initially made that question pass on to them, because I find the answer interesting, at least to the MPs, and most to the citizens who expect the councilors who chose to represent some of their interests there. The reason I mentioned Alexander Vukic at the outset is that I am extremely interested in, say, whether he is personally familiar, first as the first Deputy Prime Minister, in charge of fighting corruption, and then as president of a party full of the mouths of the fight against corruption, what methods the local officials of the party serve in the local region, to force the councilors throughout Serbia to help the SNS form power, even in those municipalities where it lost in the elections. If Alexander Vukic knows what these local officials are doing, then his fight against corruption absolutely makes no sense. Again, if he doesn't know, and I'm a personal witness, that very often they call on him, then it's something that needs to be solved in the party, since then it's a problem that he has within his party of another nature, but I won't go into it. This, of course, brings us to the question of what happened to that famous voice theft in the election? What about those sacks, when we find out how it happened, where it happened, why, which will be the epilogue of stories, and since I'm from Novi Sad, I'm extremely interested in where the investigation into which the SNS has been extremely insisting, before joining the coalition with the Roma Democratic Party, given that it had absolute support for LSVM to investigate whether the Roma Democratic Party was buying votes? I see my time is up, thank you for your extension.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-20-0.u4800	The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-20-0.u4801	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, after a shameful verdict by liberating Croatian generals, legalising the ethnic cleansing of Serbs in the criminal actions "Blash" and "Storm", we must be familiar with all the consequences of this criminal act, this ethnic cleansing. I ask the question, how many of the 250,000 Serbs who have been expelled from the centuries-old hearth managed to exercise their rights and return? How many were compensated for the damage to their property during these criminal acts? How many were compensated for the deaths of their family members and how many were compensated for hurting or hurting themselves? How many of them have been returned to their property, to receive pensions and other earned benefits? Of all the returnees, how many have returned to their dwellings, or are they still and what are the number of them displaced and those who have returned? It is true that Croatia has failed to fulfil all these obligations and has brought an action plan that is trying to cloud Europe's eyes with a justification that there is not enough resources to meet all these obligations, with the justification that it will do so over the next few decades. Therefore, Serbia must have all the data to protect the rights of all exiled citizens of Serbian nationality. What the Government will do about this, whether it will establish a new working body or continue to deal with it, but when we go to the international community, we must have all the information and know the consequences of these criminal acts and the criminal activities of Croatian generals and Croatian states. The media and the issue of lawsuits and countersuits between Serbia and Croatia these days. We, although officials believe that we are now in a worse position than we were, must understand that the NDH in World War II committed terrible genocides and terrible crimes against Serbs, Jews and Roma. Enough to say, Jasenovac. If the lawsuit starts where it should begin, from the very beginning of the accident at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, if it covers the crimes of Pavelic's Ustasha NDH, then I think we will prove unequivocally the origin of Croatia's state and the way it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-20-0.u4802	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-20-0.u4803	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about a similar subject as Mr. Jugovic, but it seems to me from a different angle. I have no doubt that the intentions here, everyone who speaks, are extremely well-intentioned, but I think now is the right time to expand the focus of what we're discussing. It has been four days since the UN tribunal's verdict in the Gotovina case – Markac and I think Serbia has reentered the same circuit that has been moving for more than 20 years. We all agreed, more or less, that the verdict was deeply unfair in our opinion and that it would cause serious consequences, that one part of the basic mission of The Hague tribunal was the one set up by the UN Decision, when it was founded two decades ago, that this was threatened or not met, and then Serbia entered into its usual politics. Today, three or four days after that verdict, we have completely defunct statements and the president of the Republic and officials of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and finally yesterday the Prime Minister. From these judgments returning us to the 1990s or the atmosphere of the 1990s, to the fact that we can't be crying like Kalimer all the time and that we can't shoot ourselves in the head. At the same time, at the other end of the world, you have a completely private or semi-private political promotion of Vuk Jeremic, who, from the post of UN General Assembly chairman, is obviously leading some kind of policy. I remind you that Mr. Jeremic is in some way and a representative of this state to the UN, and I am not sure that he is authorized, along the way, to lead his policy in New York or anywhere else. What I wanted to ask you and the Serbian government as a question is whether at this point you feel some need for parliament to discuss the issue of the 1990s wars, in this case, fate and today's situation on the problems facing the refugee population, either in Serbia itself, in countries or in areas from which, in several stages, in several exodus, so to speak, they had to avoid. In various stages of our history, during the last 20 years, these people have been mostly cannon meat in wars that were waged or excused for political failures in Serbia, Bosnia, any country on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, as well as in 1995. There is no doubt who is responsible for their banishment from Croatia and I agree that, independently of this verdict, the courts in Croatia or some other courts have to determine that. The key question for us is what are we doing with these people? How many in the past 20 years or something less have we done to make them an integral part of this society, or have we left them to ourselves? Today in Serbia, there are refugee collective centres containing five, six, seven, thousand people. No government has taken this seriously in the past 20 years. I know you spoke to the representatives of some associations yesterday, and I know some of them have some documents to suggest. I think that the debate in this Parliament and in general in Serbia must be much wider, much more serious, much more objective and that responsibility for decisions, for attitudes, for some strategy that we will make for the future, on any issue related to the consequences of the war in the former Yugoslavia, must be taken by politicians, because we go to elections, we promise people something, and we ultimately have to answer and answer. This is not just a question or advice for you, I think this is a question that I now raise very important in the context of negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina. The president of the Republic yesterday asked for some kind of advice from the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, from the Serbian Orthodox Church, from various social institutions. I don't mind, but I think we need to open up a debate before that about the consequences of similar policies or some similar advice that has been sought and received in the past. I guess that's the key. The President of the Republic said yesterday that we learned some lessons from the past and that we should not repeat them. I don't think we've ever talked about this openly, not about any of us's political mistakes, but about the political mistakes that our country made 20 years ago, 17 years ago or just over ten years ago. These are the problems facing different categories of refugees and displaced persons in our country, it's not just a question of people being expelled from the Storm. The first wave of refugees came 21 years ago, then 17 years ago in "Storm", so in 1999 internally displaced from Kosovo, eight years ago, after March 2004, the last major wave of refugees, and we never dealt with the issue in a fundamental way. Please, as President of Parliament, in coordination with the Government, provide a serious political mechanism for us to talk about it, not just on television statements and not just on confusing political announcements that are here, practically, part of folklore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-20-0.u4804	Thank you. Just to tell you in one sentence, that's exactly why I talked to the representatives of the refugee union yesterday, the 46 associations. The goal is, not just, of course, to talk about the past, but to see what this state is, and I think we're all in agreement, it has to and can do for those people in the future. What is it that we are going to ask for to be fulfilled and about finding out what happened to Serbian victims, what happened to missing persons, who is responsible for the crimes the UN tribunal claims are not guilty of? Of course, what do we do for the return of their hearth, for their property, for their rent rights? I certainly believe that parliament is one of the places where it must be discussed. So, I agree with all of you in consultation with all the parliamentary groups, and we will agree with the government, of course, when it is best to discuss one such subject, which is very serious for our country. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-20-0.u4805	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we knew from before that The Hague tribunal was a political court and that its decisions were political decisions, but this liberating verdict by The Hague tribunal for Croatian Generals Markac and Gotovina has legalised and confirmed Tudjman's model of resolving the Serbian issue in Croatia. We know very well that this Tudjman model is not his original model and that he in this model and how he relied on that model Pavelićev from NDH, and he was also, and related to NDH in some ideological sense, did not even hide. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are legally and confirmed by the court in The Hague. What does that mean? This means, not only is it open at this time, free hunting for Serbs in Croatia, but it also means that one model has been given, the way to solve the Serbian issue in other parts, e.g. in Kosovo and Metohija, e.g. in Bosnia and Herzegovina, perhaps Montenegro, including Vojvodina. That's why my question directed him to Mr. Ivica Dacic and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask them, what concrete steps do they think they are taking after this verdict which has this meaning, without them being strictly marketing or superficial, such as reducing co-operation with the UN tribunal to a technical level, or, say, not leaving Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Grubjesic in Zagreb, or, say, you received yesterday a selective group of representatives of refugee associations, that's good, but we have some remarks that this is selective and that it has to be further deepened. The DSS issued a declaration calling on all those citizens who did not freeze their conscience to resist Serbia's further path to the EU. I know very well that the opposition cannot lead the state and so I ask the state summit, how long will it lead its country and its people through humiliation and state dispersion, and we have felt it best now after this verdict? This time, Serbia in the EU, is one policy that looks to me as a psychiatrist as a policy of fascination with the execution of the executioner. If they weren't going to change anything, I'd ask them if someone might have threatened them, did he perhaps blackmail them with some new Storm, another Storm, perhaps in Kosovo and Metohija? If that's the case, they should share it with their people. They should tell the truth, because the truth no matter how cruel it is, it's much better and more healing than lies, fraud and humiliation. In the end, I would just like to say that today's government has been given the opportunity of the people to lead this country, precisely because the people were sick of this apology, this humiliation that he experienced from the previous government, and it was all seasoned with Brussels anesthesia. If the current government does not respond adequately, if it is tolerant and if it settles its shoulders, it says, well, what can it do, it will become an accomplice in the further humiliation of its people and in the decommissioning of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-20-0.u4806	Thank you. Let me just say, so I've received associations, or 46 representatives of different associations, who have asked for a reception with me. So I couldn't accept people who didn't ask for reception with me, and that's why I just took these people in. I understand your remark as well-intentioned and everyone else who wants to talk to a lot will come across an open door, like, say, all those who asked for reception in this house. The word is Dr. Predraga Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-20-0.u4807	Thank you, Mr. President. The question I'm asking and which I'm referring to, it's the police minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic and the authorities, if they think they need to discuss it. Namely, what's this about? I have before me a civil resistance manual, which has been issued by an organization, which is signed as the Vojvodina Resistance. I don't know what kind of organization it is, and what it is, it's normal for the police to question it. This handbook, written on page 45, is divided into the cities of Vojvodina, including Vrsac and absolutely brings unrest among citizens, discord, and in some ways destroys the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, because in a very rough way, untrue, false, gives information about the authorities in RS and how to give them resistance. This manual is, by the way, very detailedly engaged. It covers all aspects of our society, how and how in all aspects of our society to resist the republican government. I don't think this manual is printed and shared by chance at this point, because the issue of the budget and the discussion of Vojvodina's jurisdiction, which is being initiated by some duchy structures and the duchess parties, is being updated, so this is being timed right in that time period. Normally, we don't know, and I don't know who's behind it. However, there is a possibility that a party or party whose members beat up people on the street in front of the bar, people who tear the flag of the Republic of Serbia off the wall and trample publicly. Normally, they'll recognize who it's about. These are issues that we should discuss, not the transfer of power in one way or another, because what is important for the SNS is the fight against crime and corruption, which belongs to the former regime, which this party was in. That's what we need to talk about. That's what's more important for this society, not whether in this or in that city, one way or another, it's a republican or not, it's going to be transmuted to the government model. The government is composing as citizens in the municipality or in the city want it and will thus be composed. Anyway, I'm not going to popularize this manual or read everything in it, but just a few things I'd like to point out, and that's to say that the international community, headed by the United States, Germany, Austria and Hungary, stands by them. Normally, it's clear what's going on. What is also very interesting, and that is also recognizable, because it has already happened in Novi Sad, one of the tips says – use reverse psychology. For example, turn on the Duke's flag in public, there is no punishment under any law and raise the halabuca about it. Write hate graphs, e.g. "Vojvods Under Ice" and charge the opposite side of the incident. I hope this is recognizable to you, because this was happening to the graphite that was in Vojvodina. There's one thing that's really fake, if I may say criminally. Is that something to write and this way to scare people? One of the pages says -- do you know that Serbia committed genocide against the duchy Germans and Hungarians after World War II, and that even today it does not know where 500,000 buried bodies are located? Maybe your house is lying on one of them and you don't even know it. Imagine what people feel like when they read something like this and a text like this? One more finding, and I'll be done with it. He says – did you know that Serbia has reversed Vojvodina more than Germany has reversed two world wars? This is monstrous. There's one more thing. The expression may be too harsh, I apologize. If this is read in detail, it can be seen that there are certain sentences, structures and expressions that flirt with Croatian. There is a possibility that at some point this manual may have been made in agreement with one of the organizations in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-20-0.u4808	Thank you, Mr. Miatovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Jelena Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-20-0.u4809	Thank you, Chairman. I have two questions for the Serbian government today. One question is Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. It is clear that this government has defined its course as European, and its way out of the crisis as one of the potential has defined the attraction of foreign investment and new employment. But in these three and a half months, we haven't seen any new and big investments, we haven't seen any new employment. On the contrary, the employment rate has increased. Unfortunately, some of the big investors, which Serbia has painfully brought to this territory, have started negotiations, are leaving today. It was announced yesterday that IKEA, which was supposed to employ 5,000 workers, is leaving the Serbian market and will open its facilities in Croatia and the 5,000 employees we expected here, will be employed in another country. This can be due to different reasons for justice, but what cannot be justified is that the prime minister of the government, who announced new investments, simplifying procedures and new employment, with future peace, said that IKEA in Serbia could not solve the elemental administrative problems, location permits and land, and that it went to another market. With this, my question is whether the government, instead of criticising all its predecessors, will start working to attract foreign investors, what will it do to keep those who have an understanding agreement with the Serbian government from leaving and what will they do in real life to simplify these procedures and stop foreign investors? The second question is for the Minister of Culture. The culture minister announced yesterday that a new model for RTS financing would be found. I deeply welcome that every country that holds on to itself, to its national interest, must have a strong public service. A strong public service and an independent public service can only be one with stable funding, which is not the case in Serbia today. It doesn't matter whether it's a BBC model or a Croatian model, but what matters is that financial pressures on public service stop. All these attacks on RTS the previous days I understand as an attempt to discipline the public service. I don't have any problem with that if the government wants to make human changes within RTS. Let him do it within the legal framework. I have no problem with questioning all contracts and all abuses, on the contrary, and making every RTS contract transparent and public. I support that, but I have a problem with the definition that RTS must be aware of the political changes that have occurred. He must be aware of the sole public interest. He must be aware of the fact that he is not commercial television and that in this sense he is obliged to offer cultural, educational and objective information content. All participants in political life must understand that the public service is defending against humble reporting and defending against popular content, spine, ham, and universal estradisation of media space. In that sense, I expect the Minister of Culture to very quickly present what his concrete plan is to preserve and improve public service and ask the Committee on Culture and Information, which will tomorrow take place, to publicly condemn, or fence itself against the words that our fellow MP Sinisa Kovacevic said for this payphone, which in an attempt to criticise RTS, for which there are probably good arguments, brought down on several women employed in public service and, in that sense, for all of us who hold to the authority and public words, it is important to preserve the reputation of this Assembly which is equal to the Assembly of men and women, who respects everyone and in which no sexist, or chauvinistic attacks are allowed. Whether a woman is familiar with full illnesses or not is embarrassing, especially if they are in a certain way representative of the information program of a media house. In that sense, culturally, civilizedly, we must condemn such behavior and not allow it to ever repeat itself after this speaker. That's what I'm saying on behalf of all the women sitting here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-20-0.u4810	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs, Dejan Rajcic and Donka Banovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business, Mr Verice Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government and Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Minister of Finance and Business, to be present at the meeting and Vlajko Senić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Business and Predrag Alexic, Head of the Department of Customs System of the Ministry of Finance and Economy. We continue our work and move on to the search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE CARIN LAW Since Minister Ugljanin informed me that the cabinet session is at 11.00 hours, we will not continue to work until one of the ministers appears at the National Assembly Hall. I'm setting a break to 12.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, unfortunately because of the inability for the government to provide one of the ministers who might be present at today's session to discuss with us the amendments that have been proposed, I am not prepared to continue our work without the minister's presence and I think you agree with me. That's why I'm setting up a session for tomorrow at 10.00 hours. I hope that the government will send someone who could seriously represent the government regarding these amendments. Thank you.
