ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since today is the last Thursday of the month and in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 16.20 to 19.20 hours. From the government, or from certain ministries, I was informed that the following members of the government were unable to attend today's session, where the government was asked parliamentary questions: Suzanne Grubjesic, Deputy Prime Minister Jovan Krkobbic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy Ivan Mrkic, Foreign Minister, and Alice Maric, Minister of Youth and Sports. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a single minister or government under their jurisdiction. (Article 204(1)) Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. The President of the National Assembly will warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. The oral question of the government's representative, i.e. the minister, must be answered orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of three minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are applied accordingly, by not allowing replicas and references to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the practice of work so far, so that, in turn, the first word will be given to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. I also inform you that we have established a new practice that all the questions that MPs ask to the National Assembly are immediately on the site of the National Assembly and, of course, the answers that the Government has provided, so that the citizens of Serbia can follow past the direct crossing and on the site of the National Assembly all the questions you have asked the Government. As soon as the government's reply arrives, let me say next to the oral responses and those answers are immediately published on the National Assembly site, so you know that this is something new from this call. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. Mr. Elfic Emir answered first of all.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1357	President-in-Office of the Assembly, honourable government representatives and distinguished fellow MPs. Today I'm going to ask the Minister of Education. In my opening part of the exhibition, I would just like to mention certain problems and aspects when it comes to the education of Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia, from which my question will be quite logical. Although the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the country's competent laws, has prescribed that Bosniaks as members of the national community have the right to education in their own Bosnian language, this right cannot be used in the upcoming school year starting on September 3rd. Also, it is still an ongoing issue of accreditation of the International University, which has been going through the agony of the procedure for several years, and apparently in an inadequate way. Also, I don't know if you're aware of the fact that these days, there's been a distribution of the believers of Islamic religion, and that the school directors who were appointed by a political definition are giving the primate to the so-called Islamic community of Serbia, which is contrary to the constitution and contrary to the laws of this country, are given certain legitimacy by one regime in the previous period. What is my question which will be concise, very concrete, clear, and that is what will you do in this term when the education of Bosniaks is expressed through the aspects and problems that I have raised so that Bosniaks can use their Constitution and law-guaranteed rights, or will continue to ignore policy on these issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1358	Mr. Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1359	Thank you. Dear colleague, allow me to try to answer your question. Members of all minority communities in Serbia have been enabled to education in the native language and in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the issue there are appropriate procedures. Members of other minority communities who may be present here today as MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia know, or I suppose they know what procedure it is, when it comes to members of the Bosniak community as well as others, the same procedure applies. The Council of the Minority Community proposes appropriate textbooks, and, after the contents of these textbooks, it must be approved by an appropriate educational institution. Given the hypothetical possibility that, above all, the legal need for this textbook to be in line with the curricula and the programme that exists for our schools and the hypothetical possibility that the content of the textbooks that would be used to continue gives a different view of some events from our close past, which is objectively the case when it comes to the region, or especially about some events outside the region. This is because, above all, every textbook used must be consistent with the curriculum and the program and when the procedure exists, and especially when the legal deadlines are respected then there is no problem. I don't know if you know it, but we have eight minority languages that are used at the level of primary education, five minority languages that are used at the level of secondary education, and there's not one, but no reason for any minority community to be, as you say, discriminated, or for her not to be denied education in her own language, this applies to the Bosniak community. When the word is, as you say, "agonia of accreditation of a higher school institution", it is a subject that exists several years ago and unfortunately, I have to repeat this opportunity to repeat what I said to other people who were interested in accreditation and higher education institutions, and even institutions, and even representatives of the European Commission, that accreditation is a process performed by independent professional bodies, the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Verification is the working body of the National Council for Higher Education and is made up of 15 regular professors and academics from an educated space throughout Serbia. They fully autonomously price the acts they receive from the promoters and give a positive or negative opinion on the accreditation process, i.e. the expertise of the study programme, on the conditions that exist where the teaching should be performed and, of course, on the teaching staff that the course should carry out. The problem is for the Faculty in Novi Pazar, as far as I could understand from the talks with the President of the Commission on Accreditation and Quality Check and the President of the National High Education Council that not all of the laws and standards adopted by the National High Education Council have not yet met all the criteria for obtaining a positive opinion. One study program, according to my knowledge, was accredited, the others simply did not. It's a very simple thing. You can find standards on the National Higher Education Council website, you can find standards on the Commission's accreditation and quality check site. Once those standards are met, you get a positive opinion. Based on this positive opinion, the restoring ministry is issuing a work permit. No less or less, which applies to others and to that college. When the standards are met, they will of course get positive, and I expect, of course, that positive opinion and there will be no words, and I don't know how you're experiencing it, but there's no sign of saying a shadow of any kind of discrimination. It's about professional reasons. As far as I know, your complaint is now in front of the National High Education Council. They will also respond in a way that those as a body selected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sees as estimating professional differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1360	Here you go, Elfic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1361	Thank you. Dear Ministers, it is perfectly clear to me that there are certain legal provisions, procedures, accreditation commissions and so forth, but I cannot understand and understand that this procedure for certain universities and universities lasts for a month, two months, three months, and that it takes three or four years for an international university where it has been continuously worked to lose confidence by students and parents who are enrolling their children with information coming from the competent Ministry of Education in this case, that the university still has no accreditation, that children should not be enrolled in college, which says that I have access to international universities and other universities and universities in this country was not the same. You know, and you are familiar with the fact that during 2006, complete documentation of the international university with all its curricula and programs was lost by the staff of the Ministry of Education and that it was established by the minutes which was given to the university at a meeting in 2009 which you attended in front of the competent ministry with your assistant Mr. Jauković. No such documentation was found today. You also owe me a debt to keep you informed of this part of the distribution of the credentials when it comes to Islamic religious science. I want to meet my colleagues and the general public that this responsibility has been transferred to school directors as I said, who are politically appointed and literally not according to the professional abilities of certain teachers who need to teach but a fully politicised process where members of the Islamic community in Serbia cannot have their teachers in the teaching process.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1362	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1363	Let me say another sentence on the accreditation of the International University of Novi Pazar. I spoke to Mr Zukorlic two years ago and introduced him to the entire accreditation process and presented to him what the standards are and presented him with the way the Commission works on accreditation and quality checks. Then I was told that the International University would do everything possible to meet the standards set. It's a very, very simple thing. Do you have a teacher with an appropriate calling, who can teach a particular subject? Do you have a suitable number of teachers with an appropriate calling? Do you have the right number of teachers at all? The problem is very resolutional and one logical question is raised. How is that a problem for others a solution and possible accreditation and for the International University is not? Do they want to meet the criteria or not? Because interest in the establishment of a higher education institution exists by others, even people from abroad appear, to whom we present all documents in the same way. Someone decides not to. The accreditation and quality-checking committee is someone who decides and is completely autonomous. You know exactly what the standards are. I'm sorry the International University hasn't met those standards by now. If he wants, of course, to me, he can meet those standards. During the talks with Mr Zukorlic, I was shown a solution from, which makes me 2003 on the establishment of a university and I asked a simple question – are the same study programs that stand in that solution. If they are, then there's no problem, if there's some study problem that's not listed in that solution, and teaching is done, then there's a problem. Unfortunately, there were some problems. Why the International University did so, it is not clear to me, but the process of accreditation and the whole procedure, to say, the quality of high school institutions has been established by the Higher Education Act in the standards set by the National Council for Higher Education, and by the way the accreditation committee works. You know that there is, or you may not know, but here I am telling you, that any study programme would be accredited, there are consensualists who give an expert opinion on the validity of this programme and he is passing that expert evaluation, and on the basis of that report the commission is discussing and there is the possibility of a complaint to the National Council for Higher Education. My deep opinion is that if the International University really wants to meet the standards that are generally known, there is no obstacle to obtaining a positive opinion. It means program, space, teachers. Just those three points, the program, the space, the teachers in the appropriate titles. As for belief, I have to say that the Ministry of Education and Science, this problem is being solved together with the Ministry of Faith, or the relevant committee, and that we have solved this problem successfully so far. If there are any new elements, here, I'm free to meet them, you can also during this debate or later, to deliver that information to me, so I'll see with the other colleagues what it's really about. Not getting into a conflict that exists on the ground about who represents who within the schools, about reflecting religious communities. We solved this problem in the previous years, in my opinion, quite successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1364	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Emir Elfic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1365	As far as International University is concerned, it meets all standards on both professional staff and scientific and teaching programmes. Dear Ministers, after this session, I will provide you with a series of points saying that the accreditation committee has not acted in accordance with its procedure, and what I just said is the key thing is, if certain things about the procedure that the International University should have. If some things were not satisfied, in terms of the procedure that requires, I think a period of three and a half years is very long, to get an answer to one such question. These deadlines should have been shorter, as they were for all the other universities, so that the International University as a very important, high education institution, in Sandzak, but also in Serbia, could end the procedure. When you mentioned the language, I remained obliged to say it, I also understand the procedure for implementing the Constitution and legal solutions in terms of the implementation of the Bosnian language. In the previous regime, the regime has dared to build that parallel institution, where we have the Bosniak National Council, in a technical meeting, which has no legality from Bosniaks who went out in the 2010 elections for the Bosniak National Council and the one legitimately denied by the previous regime. I really expect this government to have understanding for the needs of the Bosniak national community and that it will make more sense to solve all these problems that are, and we, from the Bosniak Democratic Community, are not looking for anything but to be equal citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1366	Thank you, the word has a People's MP, Zechariah Trnavcevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1367	Good afternoon, thank you for this opportunity to hear from the government and ministers the answers to the questions that actually refer to the citizens that we represent here. What I'm going to ask is not just a question, it's also a suggestion and advice. The damage to this year's drought is, somewhere they say about 2 billion euros, and that damage will be felt next year, unless something is done today. The next round in autumn 2012 and spring sowing in 2013 should be done better than ever. It's about us having high-born wheat and corn hybrids, but low waste of fertilizer. If there is no soil in the soil of the fertilizer, the plant cannot form the fruit that is otherwise possible, which is 8 tons of wheat, 10 tons of corn. So I have a question, on behalf of many farmers for the Minister of Trade Rasim Ljajic, do you think, do you intend to import a table, a hundred and fifty thousand tons of mineral fertilisers, to give them to the directory for material reserves and to divide them under favourable conditions to farmers so that next year we have a fruit of wheat that we haven't had before, which is 6-7 tonnes. The move, the low-cost loan would also pay off, and Serbia could restore its wheat exports and have enough. You know, Minister, that this time, the Reserve Directorate has no grain to intervene with and help those cattlemen who won't have enough food to get their last name out of the cattle and they're going to have to cut it down, sell it, and unfortunately, to slaughter. To the slaughter, Mr. Minister, will go forced and quite a number of racial throats that could be held. So that's my question, to intervene immediately, because today is August 30th, and the wheat collection begins at the latest on October 5th. It is low in the waterway of Danube and Sava, to buy fertilizer where it is and that is Hungary and Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1368	Thank you. Mr. Ljajic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1369	Two things I'd like to point out that are the answer to this question of yours. As you know, at a meeting organised by the prime minister, we discussed this topic. Despite the fact that the stock reserves at this time do not have the means to buy mineral fertilisers, the agreement is to provide funds with one loan to buy perhaps not 100,000 tonnes of mineral fertilisers, but at this point we have some mineral fertiliser reserves and due to shortages and smaller reserves, especially corn, in the stock reserves, we will offer mineral fertilisers to replace mercantile corn, since only 70,000 tonnes of mercantile corn today are in stock reserves. We thought we'd intervened with that corn with about 40,000 tons and we believe we'd encounter a favourable reaction to this trade in mineral fertilizer for mercantile corn and wheat.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1370	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1371	Mr. Minister, this time in Serbia, what finished fertilisers, which is only about 250,000 tonnes of raw material for the plantation by the end of 2012, which is pretty little and not enough. It's just that we're up to 500 kilos per hectare now, which may be about 100 kilos. In that case, we could hope that the hectare yield of wheat will be six and seven tons and we have surpluses. What you're talking about is a replacement for 70,000 tons of corn, which is one measure, a good measure, but not enough to solve this problem. I'm talking about something more ambitious, which is that the Reserve Directorate is for the first time acting like a business and thinking about its reserves for next year and investing money to get it back into excess grains that will be able to use both for market intervention and export maintenance. In March 2013, from this country, I am confident, not a single barge of Danube corn will go to customers who have bought corn so far and which has brought us over 200m euros. Therefore, it is also necessary to intervene for the spring sowing. There is no time, the fertilizer is not enough in our factories, and it has to be bought, whether in Russia, whether in Romania, somewhere on the market, in Hungary or in Croatia. I think it's a win-win move. Take care of it. I tell you what I've heard from the head of agricultural holdings and many farmers. We have to do this autumn sow in 2012 with the proper use of food, mineral fertilisers, in order to hope that the 2013 generation will be so high that it will partially mitigate this current damage that has hit us, and above all, the warlords.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1372	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1373	Just as a brief addition and what you said in response to the previous question. You know for a fact that one of the 15 measures brought by the Ministry of Agriculture is the purchase measure of 200,000 tonnes of mercantile corn, which requires 6.5m euros. Therefore, a loan is needed in that amount to buy up to 200,000 tonnes of mercantile corn. With this requirement that's perfectly correct and that we've talked about, we'll see if we can get 100,000 tons, but in any case, one amount of mineral fertilizer will be redeemed.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1374	Thank you. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1375	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, dear fellow Members, I will use my parliamentary right to ask three brief, clear and precise questions. I hope that's the answer, so I don't have to use extra time. My first question is addressed to Mr Dinkic and refers to the Inex Interdelivery Fund. So whether the privatisation of the Index Interdelivery Fund has been completed since 2005 and trustees, including former workers, have not yet been paid off. I will remind you that the government of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 shut down the frisches, with several hundred people literally driven to the street and no severance and compensation dinars. I would take advantage of the opportunity to commend the measures you took at the beginning of your term of office, concerning craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. I hope you won't stop at that, because it's the people who have felt the pressure of the crisis that we're in. My second question will be addressed to Mr Selakovic. It refers to the restitution process on several occasions and I listened when you spoke and criticised the Restitution Act during the election campaign, often noting, you and your colleagues currently in your ministry, that this request is very bad because the process of substitution has been abandoned. My question concerns whether you will do everything possible to change this law and whether the substitution will be introduced into the Restitution Act as a predominant way of restoring property. My third question is the proposal, and I can ask Mr. Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, if you will support the proposal by the SPI Group and the DHS to include a proposal to adopt a resolution on the crimes of the totalitarian regime in the agenda of one of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would remind you that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted Resolution 148 on 25 January 2006, entitled "The need for an international condemnation of the crimes of totalitarian communist regimes", in which all communist or post-communist parties were invited to re-evaluate the history of communism and their own past, clearly distance themselves from the crimes committed by totalitarian communist regimes and unequivocally condemnation. This is also the fulfillment of our international obligation, and this is why this issue is addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1376	Here you go, Mr. Dinkich.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1377	Mr. Gojkovic, I don't know the answer to this first question of yours right now, but I am obliged to deliver it to you within the time limit foreseen by the Rules of Procedure for the Inter-Construction Fund. I really don't know what stage the privatisation process is in, but I'm going to give you a written answer on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1378	Thank you. Mr. Selakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1379	Mr. Gojkovic, when you spoke about the issue of restitution and whether we would introduce restitution as one of the ways, if I understood your question well, I can tell you that you will receive a complete answer later. Keep in mind the burden of this ministry on which I am headed and how many questions on the agenda, but you will get from the ministry service a precise answer to this question, of course with a good analysis of the Restitution Act, which certainly requires it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1380	Thank you. The third question you asked me is that you referred to the government, so I expect the government's answer to your third question. Mr. Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1381	You know that we have repeatedly adopted documents here in different forms and the Rehabilitation Act and that it is absolutely uncontestable that all the crimes committed should be condemned and that the victims, if they have borne any legal consequences, should be rehabilitated. A concrete answer to your question will be given when we get a proposal for your act. The only thing we can't allow, and we sure as hell won't join that, is that we're doing a history review. When it comes to this, Serbia should monitor its anti-fascist line consistently, regardless of whether it is anti-fascist movements, with any ideological orientation. The only thing that's unacceptable for us is that fellow fascists, occupiers, in the name of allegedly correcting injustices, are calling themselves anti-fascism fighters. It is impossible for one who received an iron cross from Hitler to be declared a prominent citizen of some region. This applies to all and to members of all the nations. Serbia has something to be proud of. Unfortunately, if Dmitri Medvedev hadn't come years ago, I don't think they would have marked the anniversary of Belgrade's release. But it's not right either. It turns out the Russians freed Serbia. Therefore, these political issues that you are asking must surely be taken into account in a realistic examination of history and the identification of accurate historical facts. If the proposals go that way, you will certainly have the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1382	Thank you. Mr. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1383	Very short. Thank you, Mr. Dinkich. I didn't expect to get an answer right away, because yet the government was just formed and it's a matter that, I say, started seven, eight years ago, so I didn't expect the exact data, but I hope to get them as an MP after all. Mr Selakovic, I cannot accept your answer, especially since you have been very decident in the election campaign saying that the substitution will be something that will upgrade this law and potential, the people who are now part of your cabinet, the assistants in your ministry, said very clearly in the stands that the continuity of the substitution is part of the new law on restitution. I would just like to say to Mr Dacic that no one wants to review history, unless you think that the history review, that after October 1944 in the territory of Serbia, the communist government killed tens of thousands of people, that in Yugoslavia, over five million people went through prisons in the first year after World War II, that because of the establishment of a non-democratic one-party regime in the country, thousands of interned officers and soldiers from Nazi camps were forced to go to immigration. These are all the facts I'm talking about, the organized concentration camps on the Gol Island, and that people's communist decrees have taken property of great value, which hasn't been taken from them until today. That's all I was talking about, Mr. Dacic, about any history review I don't want to talk about. In the end, these are all the things that are said in those institutions that Serbia wants to be part of and which we are aiming for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1384	Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1385	I must say, so far, I have spoken to EU representatives several times. I've never heard of such a request, that it's a condition for getting a date for starting negotiations. Therefore, it is possible to speak to you in a conversation. I just want to point out one practice that is present in Serbia, which is that the commander of the units released by Belgrade has no street in Belgrade. It's Peko Dapčević. Is that a history review? Yes, it is. Is the history review that Serbia had the most massive anti-fascist movement in Europe percentageing the number of inhabitants, the victims that fell by fascists and those who served them? Is the rehabilitation and revision of history to declare Milan Nedic the legitimate president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Yes, because he was not elected in the elections, nor was he elected by the assembly, the Serbian parliament. His picture was recently in Nemina's 11th. Is the revision of history even when it is suggested that a square in Smederev bear the name of Ljotic? Is the revision of history even when the New Market Achim Efendi declares himself a Bosniak rights fighter and is given an iron cross by Hitler? Neither you nor I, Mr Gojkovic, have participated in World War II and I think it is high time for Serbia to turn to the future, not to be constantly stared at in the past. Accordingly, I am absolutely ready for the Serbian government to support everything that is in the direction of Serbia's better future, correcting past injustice, only injustices cannot be corrected by wronging others. After all, the decision I signed seemed to me, as deputy prime minister of this government, was to form a committee to examine all of this and determine these tombs you're talking about. And Mr. Homen often talked about finding the remains of Draža Mihajlovic. And that's the decision I signed. What more do you want on behalf of national reconciliation? The result of World War II cannot be changed today. Those involved should have the rights that arise from this. Victims, those who have fallen, whether because of fascists, or because of our civil war, should experience legal rehabilitation, but indeed, we are inclined to share in our people by very different criteria – Republicans and monarchs, Serbs from Serbia, Serbs from Montenegro, Serbs through Drina, now Serbs from Kosovo, to divide into Serbs over the Danube in Vojvodina and those from central Serbia. We are dividing ourselves into Democrats and those who are allegedly supporters of some old communist regimes. I don't know why you're asking me about communist crimes, because here among other parties who are not the heirs of the Communist Party there are many more who have more years of communist standing than I am. After all, and in your party, sir. I haven't played a kosher car in the '60s and, in any case, maybe you should discuss it at your Osserbian Assembly. I'm in favour of Serbia moving forward, so let's get out more of the trenches of partisan and Chetniks. Please, Serbia has other problems to face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1386	Mr. Gojkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1387	Thank you. I had no intention of answering that. Just a few sentences. There was no need, Mr. Dacic, to speak like this. I didn't want to be mean at all. You are the Prime Minister and the question has been referred to as the Prime Minister, and it concerns something that is the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly and the acceptance of what all countries have accepted in the environment. I didn't want to be mean at all. Of course, I'll never play the kosara wheel, nor have I ever played it. Everything else I think is unnecessary. Let's get this over with. Let's agree on something. It is that we all need to look to the future, but we will look to the future by interpreting the right history and the past and closing it once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1388	Thank you. You have no right, Mr. Dacic. Mr. Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1389	The Honorable President, the Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. For SVM MPs, agriculture is one of the most important topics. Of course, the questions I want to ask are about agriculture. I would like to refer the question to Mr. Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, as regards the proposal for a measure to mitigate the effects of drought. As we know, the damages are huge and we face them daily. It is certainly one of the most dramatic years in agricultural production. As for the measures the government has taken today, we welcome them, but not entirely. As far as liberating farmers from some fees, we don't mind. That was the case over the years. What we are particularly interested in is the issue of the release of some agricultural producers from paying for land leases in state property. This measure, namely, places small and medium-sized agricultural producers in an unequal position compared to large ones. This measure is only suitable for a particular circle of producers, for large ones, and we believe it will lead to division among agricultural producers. She's not fair to other small producers, because they've paid rent to privates whose country they're working on. I'm interested - is this rent-free measure only applied to local self-government, which the manufacturer should not pay 40% of the rent, or to 30% of the ministry and the province? We especially support incentives in livestock. It's a good thing they buy 200,000 tons of corn. The question is, however, does the government plan on making a part of that corn for cattle farmers? This is very important information, because we have 13 months to wait for a new breed of corn. In the end, I am interested and what will happen to unpaid subsidies per hectare and diesel fuel, which have recently led to protests by farmers and roadblocks throughout Vojvodina? Farmers count on these subsidies they haven't received yet. I am aware that it was the obligation of the previous government, but yet I am on the point that the programme that was accepted at the beginning of this year should continue. Agricultural producers should get what they were promised for 2012. I know, Mr. Minister, you've been making statements about this these days. I'm as interested as most farmers in detail. It is good that in the future you plan to establish agrarian policy through the Encouragement Act. I'm interested in how you're progressing with this and will agricultural producers know what's been waiting for them this year in 2012-2013? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1390	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1391	Thank you very much. Of course we all know that the effects of drought are catastrophic, the fruit of soy and corn has been reduced by about 50%. We expect that the same 20% to 40% will be reduced by estimates of the Ministry of Agriculture and the genus of sunflowers and sugar tails. Of course, all of this will affect our exports, all of this will affect a smaller offer on our market, an increase in prices, and because of all of this, the government has, in its session before, seemed to me, a week ago brought in a set of extraordinary measures to help farm control, or to resuscitate drought damage. These measures are segmented, i.e. they are divided into three segments. The first segment is that the state frees agriculture from certain financial obligations, or extends those obligations. The second set of measures concerns adequate market interventions for the sake of stability and price adjustment. The third set is direct subsidies, direct financial contributions to agricultural holdings. You asked me about this part of local self-government, it's in this first set. That is exactly the view, that we as a government and as a ministry are giving a recommendation to local self-governments to free them from the lease of state land this year. Of course, you yourself said that income is divided into 30-40 into local self-government. This is what we wanted, since all the other measures are in the government's and the government's budget, that local self-governments participate and help their farmers. We know that these funds are strictly dedicated and that they are used for certain purposes, but by redistributing them, local self-government could help its farmers. Of course, it's just like a recommendation. There was even one proposal by the farmer's association that these funds would return directly to the budget and then be used from the budget for something. I think because of the intervention of the measure and the short time at this point, it's impossible, because it should change more laws. Your second question applies to corn, as I recall, to imports of corn and will it be shared by cattlemen, right? In this second set of measures, we predicted, as the Minister of Trade said earlier, that an intervention buys up to 200,000 tonnes of mercantile corn on the market. With that part of the stock reserves we have at our disposal, it seems to me, 70,000 tonnes and it's just over a month's spending in Serbia. We think it's enough to intervene on the domestic market, first of all, with the livestock food producer. This multiplicity effect of the lack of corn will be the most felt on livestock farming. Yeah, we predicted it first of all for livestock production. It's the third payment of subsidies. Today we are in favour of the payment of subsidies, what was agreed with the previous minister and what was agreed by farmers and what was not translated into any act, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the regulation and the regulation is called the Regulation on the subsidy of war products and potatoes for 2012. That's the 6,420 dinars on about a million and 585 thousand acres. This subsidy will be paid in 2012 as well as any other measures that we have provided for in this set of measures. That's very important. One more thing to tell you, you've probably heard, this set of measures carries about 160m euros with it. These are huge funds and it's the largest individual intervention in agriculture, as far as I know and how many notifications I've received from my associates over the past 20 years. This way I must thank both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Trade who, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, participated in the making of all these acts. Of course, we still have one big debt to the farmers for the subsidies that were made in 2012. I must say that we had some difficult circumstances, first of all, to pay off commitments from 2011 in January 2012 of some 6.5m euros. We also have a problem with forced payment. Minister Dragin broke up about two and a half years ago with the payment of certain payments to non-communicated agricultural households, and this year we suffer damage. So, about two billion dinars were removed from the Department of Agriculture's account just for that. I want to tell you, as an illustration, that the funds are missing, but that by redistributing in other ministries, by redistributing the budget, we managed to get to this figure and intervene with these 160m euros in the budget. One more question, if there's time or if I can answer it later? Okay. You were talking about the Encouragement Act. Yes, it's a very important law, and I'm going to name a task force by the end of this week to participate in making that law. It's one of the strategic things, like an increase in the agrarian budget. This is the second strategic thing. We want to create a predictable environment for agricultural producers, so that they in the long term, or better to say in the medium term, within the shortest time of four to five years they can plan their production. We'll put that law in public debate sometime at the end of September of this year and expect it to be adopted here in the assembly together with the 2013 Budget Law, somewhere under the Finance Ministry programme, I think it's somewhere in mid-November of the month or at the end of November of the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1392	Thank you, Mr. Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1393	Mr. Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. As for the release of some agricultural producers that have government land in the lease, however, we now consider, as we have heard from the province and from the government, it will release 30%, it is certain and in the municipalities they will release that debt to them. I think the municipalities need that money extremely. It's all meant, as you said, to agriculture itself, it's extremely important. It will now, in the future, be decided by every municipality at its sessions. However, I think that, on this point, you need to question that anyone who rents agricultural land, each of the agricultural producers, does he have any tractors at all? Does he have any agricultural machinery? And do they even know any of those agricultural producers that have leased land where agricultural land is located? Because there's a lot of trouble with renting farm land in state property, please check it out in the future. What's still extremely good, which is that you're going to buy that amount of corn, I think it's extremely good. I also welcome the decision that the planned funds for the regressions are pushed and subsidies per hectare. It's a good thing you're thinking about getting seeds and fertilizers under favourable conditions for farmers. Of course, we also welcome the decision to set up a working group for the development of laws on incentives in agriculture, which will resolve these issues over the next four years. We of the SVM will certainly provide support, we are always for a good proposal and we hope that the sooner that law will be found here in the congregation procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1394	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1395	Thank you, too. Just one more sentence, about local self-government and land-rent incomes, since I've worked long in local self-government, I know how this technology works. These funds are large, but when their dispersion is carried out to one larger area, those assets are lost. It might be interesting, we are already thinking, that these funds at a level of more municipalities, that at the level of the region, they are grouped and used to irrigate, to clean the canal, and for something that will be more permanent and, with the support of the budget, with the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will be able to solve the problem we currently have because of the drought and which we will probably have in the next few years, five, ten, fifteen, twenty years.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1396	Thank you. The next word was reported by Ambassador Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1397	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, representatives of the Government. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Dacic, as prime minister, what is your government's goal? I remember very well what we discussed after your exhibition – modern Serbia, European Serbia, the nationalally responsible Serbia, united about major problems that we cannot solve divided. Those were the most concrete points of your exposé. I was criticizing something else. Now I want to ask you - why did you give up on these goals? Or you don't think so, because where is modern Serbia if you're building Serbia your coalition for 30 days, from the National Bank to every public enterprise, to the last municipality in this country. Where is European Serbia? If you have maintained continuity in a failed European policy and have stepped forward in relation to all the mistakes of the previous government through statements that I believe would not be so happy to repeat, and have marked your final performance. Where is the national responsibility of Serbia and the government leading us towards it? Nationalally responsible, we will plead to this country's biggest problem when we find out what the previous government has decided on this issue, and most of the government in which you are president was part of the previous government. I mean the agreements reached in Brussels and which at this point directly affect the country's European future. I have no doubt about Serbia's desire to be a European country one day, and that's why I'm saying this. United Serbia? What to unite about, Mr. Dacic. We can unite on common goals. Where's the space for that? I did not share power with Boris Tadic, nor with the DS. I'm interested, if you're offering us a united Serbia today, is it a prerequisite for this unity that we all become part of some ruling coalition, or will we agree that we should no longer be divided into Chetniks and Partisans, so we will be divided by some new basis. No one in this country has lost power, and you know it well, and members of your ruling coalition. Saldo, enough government and little state. This is the last moment in which we can begin to build our own country and that is why your policy, at this point, is crucial, at least for our MP's hole. Is that the way...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1398	Please, you'll be entitled to another three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1399	This is actually one rhetorical question asked by Mr Jovanovic. I think it is set to hear whether the government of the Republic of Serbia's goal is still what it is written in an exposé that sums up the work programme and the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And I as prime minister, neither I nor the government gave up what we talked about here. The objectives, of course, are to build a regulated state in order for Serbia to have a better future, it must be a well-organised state based on democratic principles, harmonising its legislation with legislation that exists in modern and developed democracies. Our goal, of course, is to overcome and make it as bearable as possible, for the widest layer of citizens, life under the conditions of the severe economic and social crisis in which the state is located. Accordingly, our goal is to continue the European path, our goal is to try to solve all the resources used by one state, think of peaceful and democratic means, by political means, all the problems we have, and above all I mean the question of KIM. Of course, our goal is for Serbia to be a factor in peace and stability, security in the region, because I think we have a lot more common interests with other peoples and countries in the region than with some of the others we may be seeking more. It is illusory to expect that any government in the world will have in a few weeks its work and existence a magic wand that will give our people what it misses most, and that is also in our coat of arms, and that is the style. Accordingly, there is no reason for you to think that someone will give up on these principles, first of all because this government is not and no government should be just the government of ruling parties, but the government of all Serbia. It is of interest to us to have dialogue, to have the principle of agreement with the most important social groups, with factors that represent the most important segments of a society. When I say so, I think that the issues of economic and social situations must certainly be declared not only by representatives of the government or the opposition, but also by representatives of all other structures, businesses, economic science, the financial sector and, of course, the trade unions as social partners. Also, when it comes to problems from other spheres, dialogue is necessary. When it comes to the European path of Serbia, I want to repeat once again that this government, that it writes in our coalition agreement, also says in the exposé, will apply the agreements reached in Brussels and no one is asking it as a question. That's what we're talking about. Deputy Prime Minister in charge of European integration Susana Grubjesic is in Brussels today. I will have talks in Brussels on Tuesday with top EU representatives. Why weren't those conversations before? Because they were on vacation. I wanted to leave right after the election, everyone went on vacation. You know there's a custom to question the government's work after 100 days. We have now introduced a new custom to question the government's work after a month, which I don't mind, of course. Besides, that's why the government exists - to work and to be criticized. I don't think anyone will ever praise a government, especially from opposition parties. This is not about the fate of any party, it is really, as Mr Jovanovic says, a matter of the fundamental future of our country, of our people, and we need to be aware of the objective situation we are in. We must have the power to predict and reason future moves that need to be drawn, and I am sure that also the President of the Republic, as he announced, will hold talks on the most important issues currently involved, which is the question of KIM, further talks and negotiations when it comes to Serbia's European future. I'm sure we should look for a common denominator for everyone. We are prepared as Government and I as prime minister to really talk to everyone about what is their view of resolving these most important state and national issues. There's a lot of parties and the state is just one of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1400	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1401	Mr. Dacic, we were very clear. I'll draw your attention, let's say what we said yesterday as a comment of the announcement of some changes in relation to Kosovo's representation at regional meetings. We reminded people what they could hear from you and the works of your ruling coalition in the past about it. We said it's important to respect life. We've paid too much so far for the wrong policy. In LDP, you'll never find people who think of themselves first and then the country they live in. What you're saying right now, you're not confirming with your gestures and your politics. You're not making a Serbian state. You of Serbia are making a picture of your ruling coalition. From every public enterprise, every single one of the so-called independent institutions or institutions that the previous government abused, you did not give it the necessary freedom but continued to do what you did to those who were in power until yesterday. What does Serbia look like today? Have we abolished local self-government? Then let's just have elections for the republican parliament, and then let's delegate in accordance with the ruling coalition of local self-government in each place. I understand if something doesn't work, but it's a key trust, Mr. Dacic. No LDP municipal board has received a directive that it can and cannot cooperate with, none. You know that very well. We do not suffer harm because of what is happening today in Novi Sad, this country suffers. Without the elemental trust in our mutual relations, none of the bigger problems will be solved. Do you need support in tax reform? Or a demonstration that we can invite people to? Do you need support, Mr. Princess, around the agrarians or the fingertips in the eye of the humiliated and destroyed peasants? What's left after more than 20 years of wrong policy is our common policy, but it can't be part of your ruling coalition at all costs and absolutely. That is why I ask you – what is the goal? If the aim is to disassemble what has been done, and what exceeds the breadth of the existing ruling coalition, then say so. Don't appeal to the argument you used when you replaced the governor. It'd be replaced by DS. That you're running for new Boris Tadic, or more than that we're supposed to get? When Mladjan Dinkic was elected vice president of G 17, we decided to replace him from the governor's post because we felt that politicians did not belong in the central bank. (President: Time, Mr. Jovanovic. () Goal. That's all. Honestly. If Wolfie agrees.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1402	Next speaker Dr. Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1403	Respected members of the government, I would ask this question to the KIM minister if it were in the government, if the government had that portfolio, but then I ask the government a question: A few days ago, during its visit to Serbia, European Parliament's envoy for Serbia, Jelko Kacin, said an agreement was reached on Kosovo's regional representation, on Kosovo's representation at regional meetings. This question about it, and I'm going to see that I formulate it as plain and simple as possible, to allow you to give me a simpler and clearer answer, is it a question – is it true what Mr. Kacin said? Secondly, if true, what is the content of the agreement reached? In fact, this is how I formulated it, in two parts, because I wouldn't be surprised that what Mr. Kacin said was not true, given the beginning of his political career. I remind you that Mr. Kacin ran an office for war propaganda and lies in Slovenia in 1991. Therefore, I would not be surprised if he deceived the Serbian public with this statement, but still leaves the possibility that it is true, so I ask what the content is, if that is true? What is the content of this agreement reached? This second question, which may be more important, was given on the basis of some of the statements that government members made a few weeks ago on the subject. About two weeks ago, Mrs. Susana Grubjesic, Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, said that this presentation of Kosovo could go without that star, which is one of the points of the agreed conclusion, and that it would be enough for Serbian representatives to just read the content of the footnote without the star standing. After a few days, the head of the European Integration Office confirmed that this would be the way. Of course, I don't have time to talk about the star and the way this thing is regulated in this agreement, but first of all, I would appeal to the public for work when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. This sentence of Mr. Kacin is anagmatic and is, therefore, full of uncertainty about whether or not something is agreed and as agreed. More ministers in the Serbian government and the Prime Minister himself has the custom of saying that when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, everything will go publicly, transparently and that parliament will be the place to discuss it. That's why I'm taking this opportunity to discuss a particular occasion in this place, to make it clear to the public what this is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1404	Thank you. Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1405	Well, since the Deputy Prime Minister is in Brussels, I will answer this question. So it is not accurate information that agreements have been reached on Kosovo's representation at regional forums, because no talks or negotiations on it have been conducted. Mr. Borislav Stefanovic led the talks on this. The government will apply what it has agreed in Brussels and it is a matter of interpretation here, since Mr Stefanovic, or our government, in that mandate of Pristina and Cooper, who mediated it at the time of the European Union, each has an interpretation of what is agreed. I would just like to remind myself of what the problem, our interest and the goal of representing Kosovo, or the participation of Kosovo in regional forums, means not about membership but about participation, was that Kosovo should be presented asymmetrically with regard to other participants, whose sovereignty and territorial integrity is recognised by the United Nations. That asymmetricity is determined by this famous star. Here was a question and a different interpretation, whether on a board standing in front of a representative of the so-called Pristina authorities, there should be stars and clarifications of that star, or whether it is enough to stand just a star, that the clarification should be in the documents accompanying these gatherings. I have to say, if we look at the essence of the problem, I don't think it's a fundamental problem that Serbia has for Kosovo and Metohija today. Accordingly, by respecting the instruction that has been so far, our representatives have not participated in different meetings, have left these meetings, etc. It should simply, since we have defined ourselves to respect the agreements, it is only a question here, since the EU, which has intervened in this, interprets it in a way that it is not necessary for stars and footnotes to stand on the table itself, whether it will be a star, is not being set up as a problem, nor can anyone agree that Kosovo should be equally represented, as well as Serbia, because this would mean a practical recognition of Kosovo as an independent state. We need to be aware of what we defend and what we defend to the end, not everything we defend to the end and ultimately defend nothing. Accordingly, we will have here when it comes to the arrangements reached, I think the legal path is next – that the government of Serbia, i.e. the competent ministries or offices that have functioned so far, is proposing an instruction that would imply how our representatives behave in all such situations. So unless Kosovo is asymmetrically represented, to translate into Serbian, unless otherwise presented by internationally recognised states, Serbia will not participate. Our principled policy is the team's case remains the same. Yesterday I reacted, I didn't react, and I'm probably going to be criticized for saying that I'm allergic when we get all the lessons, because I don't think anyone's challenging the right to criticize anyone. That's not controversial. You just know what, I can't accept that someone is about to become a member of the executive government in Serbia, and no one has chosen him for it. I cannot accept because I am the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I cannot accept that someone under the pretext that Serbia should meet certain conditions, on the one hand lists are being set up to do what needs to be done, and on the other hand those arrested by authorities fighting corruption are being helped. Then we need to investigate whether there's corruption. Since the representatives of European institutions are at stake, of course we have very correct views, we want to talk, just know that there are some limits and levels of diplomatic behaviour, which we all have to adhere to, I hope those who come to Serbia as well. If we don't respect ourselves, no one will respect us. I don't think Serbia should arrest those who have done anything in the past. You know how when someone was supposed to be punished in the army, what did he get as a mission? To clean up, toilet fish. Because that's how we're supposed to understand it, so now that we're being punished, that's what we're supposed to do. You know what, I think Serbia has more dignity than anyone thinks of us. Our commitment, a hundred times we will go to Brussels to seek a solution to continue the European path, to find a fair solution, which is in the interests of both the Serb and Albanian people, who live in Kosovo and Metohija. So the answer to this question of yours is that we haven't changed, we haven't reached any new arrangements, nor have these agreements been made with Kacine. There's no change compared to what was agreed in Brussels a few months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1406	Thank you. Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1407	Mr. Prime Minister, you've actually denied what Kacin said and I'm perfectly pleased with that. So he said something that didn't happen and it's totally fine. But it's not the main thing, although I'm happy with the answer. I don't really care if it's a star after footnote or if it's a footnote on the board where the star stands or if it's our statement. We discussed this on the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija very carefully and in detail when it came to this. What I'm saying is that with what you've explained, you're completely out of the picture when it comes to representing Kosovo at these regional gatherings. Because Robert Cooper sold the topic to Borko Stefanovic that Kosovo should be presented at regional meetings. Why did you sell it? Because Kosovo can be represented at regional meetings under Resolution 1244. There are no problems, and it was presented at regional meetings all the time and before these talks began. Only the Kosovo representation regime was pedantically determined by Resolution 1244. Representatives of temporary institutions could be moved to the head with UNMIK's representative. What is most important is UNMIK's signing these regional agreements and I would remind you that CEFTA is the most important regional agreement that exists, that the CEFTA agreement signed on behalf of Kosovo by the president of Umnik. What is the result of Borko Stefanovic's agreement and the text he writes is that it has been annulled. It is now possible for the president of independent Kosovo to sign such an agreement and for Kosovo to be presented differently than was presented under Resolution 1244, when it was Umnik-Kosovo, that is the difference. So, the mode of representation during these talks has changed. If you accept that, then you're out of the way and that's what I want to talk about. It's the most important thing in this whole complex. So Serbia was not against Kosovo being presented. How was it represented? When Kosovo became independent, they wanted to be represented as an independent state. They were allowed to deal in which Borko Stefanovic participated. If you guys keep doing this, then you're really on the wrong track. There's also another question I can ask you during this intervention. Is the same thing going to be with other agreed conclusions, and there are six more. Will you continue because as far as I can see when it comes to representation, you will accept some modulation of the deal that Borko Stefanovic reached with Edith Tahiri. Will you continue to accept that Serbs from Kosovo are withdrawing their ID cards and other documents in Pristina? Will you accept the authority of the final instance of the Kosovo Supreme Court in the case of the catastra? Will you accept the right interstate border between Serbia and Kosovo as agreed in one of these agreed conclusions. There are still such questions, but these three are I think enough for this opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1408	Thank you. National MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1409	Prime Minister and respected members of the government, first of all, I would like to welcome the number of Prime Ministers, Deputy Prime Minister, today. I hope you'll be in this band for months to come, when the job is further on track. In any case, my question today is about our country's rating to the finance and business minister, Mr Dinkic. This August 7th, one of the three major rating agencies in the world "Standard and Purs" reduced our country's rating. A few days later, another rating agency "Fici" did the same rating was reduced from BB to BB minus, and the same thing that is very important is that the perspective of a stable has been shifted to negative, which means that this rating agency is announcing an additional reduction in our country's rating. I would read from the explanation of this rating agency because various interpretations of the decision were heard, and the rating agency did not discuss the impact of the previous government, which you participated in and voted for all the budgets it proposed rather than quoted two reasons for reducing the rating of the Republic of Serbia. The first reason, to quote, is the fact that the new government does not have a clear macro-financial strategy, i.e. Seeing the development of public finances by the end of this year for next year. Another reason, I would also quote, and these are changes to the NBS Act that have significantly weakened the independence of the institution and that introduce the risk of unsuitable political interference in monetary policymaking. My first question for you is, what is your approach, your ministry and government in general, to improve the ruined rating of the Republic of Serbia, and I remind you, that agency that reduced the rating two years ago increased the rating of the Republic of Serbia and two years ago the Republic of Serbia was the only country whose rating was improved after the establishment of this government and this argument and at this moment we are the only country in an environment whose rating has been reduced, for some other countries like Bulgaria, the perspective is now better and their rating is improving. My question is, what is the strategy of your ministry and government to improve our country's rating, what will be the budget deficit expressed in GDP from the moment this government is set up, by the end of this year? Secondly, will you reach an agreement with the IMF, as we continue to hear various intonations from the government about the need to reach that agreement, and if the answer is that, when the agreement is set up, the agreement will be established. Finally, when you have not already heard the well-intentioned suggestions and have accepted a number of amendments to the proposed NBS laws, by the DS and other opposition parties, will you listen to what will then surely be in the European Commission's report, which will come out in October of the month, where changes to that law will be sought and then the IMF itself will demand changes to that law in order to return to the degree of independence and to have two powers in that institution, because with these amendments and additions, the institution and the role of governor itself are significantly weakened, not only as regards politics, but also the NBS itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1410	Mr. Dinkich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1411	Dear Mr Djelic, if you remember, when you completed your mandate as Finance Minister in 2003, the budget deficit of the Republic of Serbia, 4% of GDP. Now that Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic has completed his mandate as prime minister and finance minister of the Republic of Serbia, the country's overall budget deficit is over 7% of GDP and this is Serbia's record deficit of all time. That is the amount that is over 2.2 billion euros, minus the entire state. At the time I was repairing the state of public finances in Serbia, I succeeded with the help of colleagues from the then government, to turn together from minus four to plus two within three years. So, for 6% of GDP, we made a better score and left two billion euros in the till when I finished that mandate. I have now found a deficit of 2.2 billion euros. What I'm also saying is that that time to finance the country's budget deficit took about a billion and a half euros a year. The situation we found today, therefore, in 2012, Serbia to pay public debt and to cover the budget gap, annually stands out 4.4 billion euros. That's the number for this year. In order to pay off everything that Serbian citizens need in the budget by the end of this year, because there are pensioners, teachers and doctors, we still have two billion dollars to find. We, of course, made a plan and we'll find them. That's not the problem. The problem is that the state pays 66 billion dinars only for interest this year, while the original budget for agriculture is without so-called. Our own incomes, which ultimately did not come to an extent as put into the budget of only 22 billion, three times more for interest on debt than the basic budget of the Ministry of Agriculture was before the rebalance planned together this fall where we will increase that budget by 10 billion dinars, so by about 45%. Is it realistic that credit agencies only a few days or a week after the government was formed, I mean the credit rating of Serbia because of the effect of the new government and because the new government has no clear vision, as you said. He was shot down because such a dubiosis is if it continued with it, not one step, but let's say a few steps to the Greek scenario, because by galloping the deficit and borrowing would have led to some year, if it hadn't stopped to the situation in which Greece was found when it went into crisis. They had a 12% GDP deficit. Serbia has over seven now. So we haven't gotten there yet, but if we don't stop it, that's where we're going. So our government decided to build a serious fiscal consolidation programme. We have almost completed the programme at the Ministry of Finance, but of course the programme will present the prime minister along with all ministers on September 10th, and it includes a change of one huge number of laws, measures both on both scale and on the revenue side, with the goal of bringing the budget deficit to 4% of GDP next year. So somewhere for nearly 100 billion dinars compared to what we found. As far as the IMF is concerned, as you know, we want to co-operate with everyone in the world, including international financial organisations. As Minister for Public Finance in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I sent a letter to the IMF Executive Director and we expect their so-called arrival. "Feht Fine" mission or mission that will assess the current situation, for the period from 10 to 14 September, then on 8 September in Geneva I will see one of the IMF executive directors at a preparatory meeting for this year's IMF and World Bank Assembly. We expect a mission to negotiate a new arrangement, because this old man who made the previous government will be annulled, because he's completely unreal. So, we're going to talk about a whole new arrangement. I believe that we will have these negotiations together with the 2013 budget talks, which we plan to bring by the end of October at the cabinet's session, and that MPs of the Assembly are considering how this order is budgeted in the second half of November of this year. As for the NBS Act, I can responsibly say that no member of this amended law, I am convinced, will be challenged. The only item that was problematic, as you know, in the amendment of the parliamentary group of the URS and other parties that joined was deleted even before it was intervened. So there's not a single point that would ask these things as a question. So we've found a really difficult situation, but we don't sit on our hands. We worked in the government all summer, while, as the prime minister said, some of the European Commission were on vacations, while IMF people were on vacations, we prepared this plan. That plan is now over, so we can get some details and get out, but I've told you the basics of the plan. I can tell you that the basic idea is to reduce expenditure as much as possible, so we also offered among other things to health unions and unions in education, and this is true for full public services, that in the next year we have an extremely high salary increase that is due to the fiscal rule, i.e. an increase in earnings to be 2% in October of this year and 2% in April of next year. Then in 2013 let's go back to the formulas of fiscal rules. Another thing we'll do, we'll put order into the tax system. We will lift our own revenues from all direct budget users as early as October 1st, we will abolish a number of parafiscal duties, today we have proposed to the Government of Resent Ministers to consider the abolition of 104 parafiscal duties, different taxis, from small businesses and crafts companies, from small companies' fees to small businesses and crafts businesses to other fees such as forestry, which were introduced by the ministries without control over the past years. We will ban the Budgetary System Act from anyone other than the Ministry of Finance, in the future introducing taxes to citizens and businesses, especially not fees paid by everyone even though they have nothing to do with the service being carried out. The forest is a classic example. Each company today pays 0.025% of total income whether it has anything to do with forests or not. Of course there's supposed to be a fee for the tree cut down, to pay for those who cut the tree, but don't need a plumber to pay for the forest. So with such measures we will make consolidation. We also plan to save on cutting our own revenues to direct users, we will automatically control expenditures that were once uncontrollable as our own expenditures and all expenditures will be formulated in the regular budgetary procedure, both in the Government - and in the National Assembly. Then we'll have full records. We also believe that there is a need to introduce order in public sector wages. We'll limit the maximum wage in the public sector to the current highest level in the state administration, that's coefficient 9. It is about a salary of about 160,000 dinars, which today has, for example, the Secretariat of legislation. Which means that if the directors of some management agencies have 220,000, 300,000, 400,000 dinars, they will have these salaries reduced to this level and that savings will be returned to the budget. We'll also level for the same professions that are not of professional nature, such as drivers, chefs, etc., wages that can't have a driver in the agency and the driver in the government is 30,000, we'll cut to the level in the government and on that basis make savings. Just on what I'm talking about right now, in better control of the expenditure side of the budget, by putting our own revenues into the central budget for direct budget users, we plan to save about 20 billion dinars next year. There will be some interventions on the receiving side, of course, but we'll try to keep them as low as possible. All in all, the plan is clear. Unfortunately, we will have to finance this budget deficit and public debt, but we will try more favourable sources than today on the domestic market, bilateral loans, euro bonds and, of course, from international financial organisations when we make a new arrangement with the IMF. Then the perspective is that when the country comes out of recession, because among other things, we found a recession in the first half of this year, to slowly repair our credit rating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1412	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1413	Thank you, Mr. Minister. One conclusion, one more question and one more suggestion. The conclusion is that we do not yet have concrete answers in the way we are going to improve our country's now downgraded rating. We see that we still don't know if it will be reached under what conditions an agreement with the IMF will be reached. We also see that we do not yet have at least the key coordinates of what should be the implementation of the budget this year and the budget deficit for next year. It's not about the IMF's presence, it's a simple decision the government can make, but we'll see what kind of orientations you're proposing on September 10th. Be assured that you will have the support to strengthen the role of the Ministry of Finance and for all those sound reasonable measures, including paying classes that we put in place together a few years ago, and then the whole salary policy in the country went to some other time. Anyway, I'm not going to say here that some of your own incomes, as a member of the previous government, have voted both in the government and in the Assembly, it doesn't matter that much anymore. The question is this, you mentioned one particular thing, which is that the government will insist on what it has proposed to trade unions in education and in health care. It is that wages are 2% increased now in October and 2% in the spring. This, of course, means changing that element in the Budgetary System Act, which was envisioned in October by the form set out two years ago. My question is, will that be the same case with pensions? In other words, did you tell the pensioners today that the pension would be increased under that formula or not? One suggestion about this time spilling budget liquidity and reducing our country's ratings to the functioning of our economy. There are a lot of difficult situations, but at this point it is very clear for some of our best companies, above all exporters have very serious debt recovery problems and not just debts taken in some immediate past, but also those investment loans they took to build the plants thanks to which they export today. Whether for our key exporters, we have closely followed your statements, about a billion euros and 300 million this year, it seems to me that this is just about overcoming the interest, which is certainly not enough to solve the liquidity of the problem, I repeat, some of those businesses. In his exposé at the end of July, the prime minister said quite correctly that the situation in the financial system is primarily a reflection of the situation in the real system. The suggestion is that together with the NBS, now weakened, prepare a set of measures of system systems, which will ensure that these next six months indifference for one of our best companies systemically resolves, because at this point almost all our companies enter the test liquidity, and if they allow this most qualitative part of our economy to enter into non-exit situations, then we have a chain reaction of banks, then the NBS, and then the courts, and we will have an even bigger problem, and I am confident that the problems in establishing order in public finances will be much greater. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1414	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Dinkich.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1415	Thank you for this suggestion. Just now, realizing that the liquidity situation has been brought to the government today a programme for anti-crisis measures for the economy. It's the first package, along with measures to help farmers. We have come up with a programme that from next week, all businesses in Serbia can compete with the liquidity banks with interest rates of only 3.5% a year. Whether these loans are new to liquidity or loans to refinance existing loans, which have been taken at higher interest rates, however, we have given the possibility that all businesses in Serbia, from small to large and to exporters, of course, can report to banks and get a 3.5% interest credit per year, and the difference to a market rate of 5% subsidise the state through the budget. In this way, we intend to pump 300m euros by the end of this year from the banking sector, where we only subsidise interest, and another 700m euros in the coming period. So, a total of a billion euros in the economy, where return conditions are 18 months with five months of grace periods, i.e. starting periods and 13 months of repayment. Businesses can choose whether to take dinar loans or loans with a foreign exchange clause. If they take the dinar loans, then they will pay interest at the reference rate of the National Bank of Serbia. I'm sure this will alleviate the effects of the current crisis. As far as other measures are concerned, we will try to find a mechanism to help local self-governments settle their debts towards the economy, because the system we found was first of all not paying off the commitments of the Republic. We're trying to clean up as much as we can, because pushing our commitments under the carpet isn't helping. It reduces the fictitious deficit of the budget by not paying anything, which has already been done and arrived. Everything that's agreed and arrived has to be paid. We've got the same thing at the bar. At the place, we don't know exactly how much there is a commitment of local self-government, where companies have done the work, whether they've done it some time or done some school, and they haven't been paid. We want to see and look, literally tomorrow I'm sending a letter to all the local self-governments in Serbia, to deliver to us a state of arrival and unpaid obligations to the private sector. So, not according to public enterprises, but exclusively to the private sector, let's see how much that is, and then we'll try to figure out a way to clean these debts up, help local self-governments get rid of it, and thus get room for more normal work. We'll pump up the extra money at the same time, like liquidity in the economy. As far as the exporters are concerned, we have just to help them most, decided that in this programme, the bulky exporters have the highest possibility of obtaining a loan, so up to 600 million dinars, a single loan, while, say, entrepreneurs and small enterprises will be entitled to a maximum loan of up to 30 million dinars. Under such favourable conditions, I am sure that many will take advantage of this opportunity with their business banks either to take a new loan or to refinance the existing one, since if someone has a loan with a 9% interest per year, it will be worth reprogramming it and now has 3.5 and gets it for another 18 months with five months to start. As far as pensions are concerned, of course, in the coming period I will talk to both the prime minister and the fiscal council and Vice-President Krkobibic, as we have a clear agreement that pensions will monitor public sector salary growth. What we agree as a salary growth in the coming years for the public sector, the fate of the public sector will divide and pensioners, but to the poor pensioners, those who patch up end-to-end pensioners who have a pension of less than 15,000 dinars, the government will pay off special social support that will be paid in four equal wars by 4,000 dinars, starting from 17 September this year. The next war will be in December, etc. So what the city of Belgrade is doing will now be done by the government of the Republic of Serbia for those most difficult. As for health workers, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic and I had a meeting with the unions today, and I think we are close to a reasonable agreement, that while the pay increase in October of 2% is being introduced, so that no one in the health care system has a reduction in wages, but that's why those who work more have more patients, they get a salary increase in October of 4.2%. So we will do the same in April of next year, so that the system of capitulation would be introduced gradually in a way that we do not reduce anyone's salary, and that we increase more than proportionally to doctors and nurses who have more pay. The mass of health pay would also grow 2%, as well as in education, as well as in the entire state. This programme of measures will be fully announced on September 10th, and I will defend it here in front of you, along with the budget rebalance here in September afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1416	Here you go, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1417	Mr. Minister, it is unequivocally this measure you have presented, what the previous government has proposed for the first blow of the crisis, and it has partially eased the impact. I'm afraid you're not fully aware of the difficulties that exist in our economy at this point. To think that regressing by 1.5% interest on loans of 18 months with a few weeks starts will be enough to avoid a major liquidity problem in the months to come, simply not faced with reality. A much more serious program needs to be developed. I can only say that from various discussions and key financial actors and our large enterprises, domestic or foreign, that is not important, those who do business and who pay taxes and contributions in our country would be welcomed by the government and the NBS initiative to implement a much more ambitious programme of reprogrammes of existing commitments. One such system measure is something that many other countries have done in the environment, and we think the time has come. You also have a situation where because of the inactivity of the government or the NBS in that domain of the bank at this point, they're pulling money out of our country. It's getting less and less so-called. cross-border credits that come and mostly credit activity falls right at the moment when because of the decline in sales in our country and in the region this support is more necessary than ever, so it seems to me that it is very important and the DS will come out with initiatives in that domain. I hope you don't ignore them just because we suggested them, but you're actually going to look at their scale. Serbia needs to provide rest and opportunity for the best domestic, especially export companies to function in the years to come. I thank you for one clear answer, which is that the pensioners, contrary to what we have heard from other members of your coalition, will not receive a raise that followed from the existing law, but will receive a 2% raise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1418	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1419	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the previous term, I used this institution as an MP and asked questions to the previous government and the previous regime. Ninety percent of these issues mainly referred to cases of corruption in Serbia and, believe it or not, I have never received a single answer. I got two answers to some other two questions. One was signed by a minister, one I received from the ministry of Mr Ljajic, but was not signed by him, but by the secretary of state. That's two answers in four years, and I've asked dozens of questions. I say this to Mr Dacic, that I hope that this government will have a far different approach and that already in its calendars for the next four years, it will blacken the last Thursday of the month and will be in this number, as they are here now, regardless of the obligations they have, and I know that they are great in view of the situation they have found in the government and in the state. My question concerns, of course, when I said that I was most concerned with corruption, Mr Jelko Kacin's statement yesterday, which has been about controversial privatisations in Serbia, 24 privatisations and everything else that is going on in Serbia, as rapporteur of the European Parliament, pointed out yesterday that on the road to EU membership, Serbia is most important to address issues of the fight against corruption and organised crime, as well as continuing reforms in the judiciary. Many of them said, but the most interesting and difficult thing to hear is that he said that the racketaging of investors is the cancer of this country, as well as some of the reactions I have heard from the people of the previous regime that have asked me to ask this question today, which is – that, for example, always for the EU, means, they have given themselves the right to comment and to say what is really important to the EU, and not to really listen to what the EU says, is far more interesting to fight against the current crime and corruption that is happening today and to fight people who today have real political power, rather than to listen to people in the past, as if it were some past hundreds of years ago, and not just a few months ago and, let's say, now in Croatia we wouldn't have a Sanader case in a country that enters the EU, that they only dealt with the current Milanovic or so on. My question is for Mr. Vucic, and this is – as far as it has come and if it is done thoroughly, I am not interested in terms, deadlines, everything else, but is it fundamentally due to investigations into these privatisations and others and whether this investigation will ultimately give the right results and those that Serbian citizens are expecting first and foremost people, and this is that in these investigations they are not protected from those who participated, even if they were MPs, Prime Ministers or Ministers in some period?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1420	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1421	Thank you. So, first of all, I'd like to say that we're not dealing with a timeline. The government of the Republic of Serbia, or the competent state authorities, has an obligation to systematically fight corruption. Unfortunately, I must say because of the citizens of Serbia that the system and serious mechanisms in the fight against corruption in this country did not exist behind this I have countless evidences, and the number of cases that exist in the prosecutions and in everything else. You will see, I am convinced that both the organised crime prosecutor and the Republic Public Prosecutor will do their job on their own in the coming period in accordance with the nature of their functions. That job and you're doing it, which wasn't the case in the previous period. As for investigative actions and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in charge of, as an aid to the invitation of the competent prosecutors, the job is being done. As for the privatisations you spoke of, which are on the EU list, all the investigative actions necessary to assist prosecutors who have ordered the implementation of these actions will be taken. I think those investigations are already being conducted somewhere. Where that isn't the case, it'll start Monday. I want to say that we are not here to comment on the statements of European and all other officials. It is our job for the citizens of Serbia to respect them. Every time we meet them politely and escort them, but what we have to do, we have to do first and foremost because of the citizens of Serbia. In these privatisations, the country has been damaged by billions of euros. I'm not talking about hundreds of millions, I'm talking about billions of euros. It is a key issue for our people, for the citizens of Serbia. What's our goal in this business? Our goal in this business is not what someone sometimes wants to say to the people's dictionaries – yes, you want to arrest someone, so that you fear, so you do not know what. No, it is our goal, first of all, that everything is well complemented, to leave the prosecutor with the easiest possible job, that, after that, even judging the judge according to his nature of independence and independence, his job has no hard work. When I say that, the point is to find out where that money went, so, not only did we investigate the abuse of the official position of someone from, say, a business bank, with the consent of the disorientation of the central bank, giving loans in one way or another for which there was no security, but to see where that money was finally ending, who was that end user, and to try something to get back to the people and the state. I'm not saying it'll be absolutely possible. I'm not saying it's easy to solve, especially since some of these privatisations have been ten years. For some of these privatisations, five and seven and eight years have passed. It's not easy to conduct research today, but I want to tell you one thing, and that's that they won't be protected in that business. When you mentioned Mr. Kacin and his statement earlier, I listened to representatives from EU countries and some others that no one would ever be allowed into Agrobank because of Mr. Seculic, that no one would ever be allowed to touch any other questions, so as you can see, someone dared. This government had no problem with that. At the same time, I want to point out one more fact that those who thought that we would only be part of the money or one power, one stream of money, is all the prosecutors would have received through the investigations conducted, I'm afraid they were wrong. Since I can't get involved in this business in any way, but what I can say for the public's sake, and it's quite certain that the exchanges of organized robbery, as I call it, were dramatic in the previous period. If you have an example, or if Mr. Kacin has an example of any robbery in the past month, during the period of work of this government, I would like to hear from you, from anyone in this room and from anyone in the EU. In such a case, I do not know, and all of these cases are prepared to be investigated in accordance with the law, because I think it is the only chance that Serbia has a future, that Serbia absolutely has no future if we hide from it. That question will be more and more often asked from the outside, and that is because some think that there is a big problem and that someone with someone is not going to be dealt with and that someone is going to protect someone. Simply, I want to say to those who are full of the mouth of institutions, those who are full of the criticism of the new government after 30 days, I understand that someone from the former regime is obliged to criticise the new government, but sometimes it seems pointless and pointless when you do it after 30 days. However, I want to say to these people that I'm satisfied with the fact that we haven't entered the institutions, that we haven't changed anywhere over our knees or on a shortcut for the night, or through crisis headquarters, or in any other way, that we're acting responsibly towards the state and citizens, and that on the other hand, I'm confident, we won't allow some kind of political rematch and anything else to govern us in dealing with corruption and crime. So, dealing with corruption and crime will have neither party, political, nor any other omen, but it will be fierce. That fight will be responsible, difficult, serious and how responsible it will be, heavy and serious, I would only ask you to estimate after 100 days, although it will last much longer. I hope that we will also establish this stronger system and mechanisms to fight corruption. But I would also like our political opponents and the general public to judge it after 100 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1422	National MP Olga Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1423	Thank you. Dear President, members of the government, fellow Members of Parliament, before I ask three questions from the crowd I would like to ask you at this point, I would like to point out the seriousness of the problem, while speaking in good faith all the time. Back in the last two months, I got a bunch of e-mails, which calls on the phone, which is a notion of a very serious state of field veterinary service that is a service of special social interest. So I think that the solution to this problem should be immediately marked by the Secretary of Resolute. The questions I have asked Mr. Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, and one question later, Mr. Selakovic, Minister of Justice. The first question for Mr. Knezevic is - will you and do you have any idea when in the veterinary cells in Serbia, and I will remind you that there are 10 public ones numbering 35 veterinarians and 319 private veterinarians, numbering 1,274 veterinarians, when the field veterinary service that has done the entire animal health programme will be paid off everything the state owes them, and it is three months - June, July and August of the month? I hope that you have read the Veterinary Act, so Article 51 of that same law provides for a number of measures, as it says - to prevent the prevention and eradication of infectious diseases of animals, measures, deadlines, but also to protect animals and humans from infectious diseases. The same law and its member in 83 regulated that funds for all of these above are provided in the Serbian Republic's budget. For the owner among whom there is a sign of equality, he owns the country of Serbia, is a peasant, it should be free of charge. It's like that everywhere in Europe. Then the question arises -- why are they so late to pay off, when veterinary cells have to buy drugs, they have to buy diagnostics, they have to pay taxes and contribute, VAT? If it is known that today the Serbian peasant is extremely difficult to live and that these services must be paid, then this service, which is of particular interest, as I have already mentioned, is in a difficult situation because the state owes it. I believe, and I'm sure you agree with me, that in any case, it's always better to prevent animals than its eradication, than to stamp out, or God forbid, killing animals. It's preventive, experts say, according to the data I have, 12 times cheaper than radiation. Now, the stable situation of infectious animal diseases is also the basic condition that they are eliminated to ensure animal exports, and also to ensure product exports. I must point out that I have good intentions and I have no intention of criticizing here, nor criticizing you nor criticizing the government. We've got people on duty in this room that have a basic function. I tried to get this information from the vault... (President: I apologize, but please take care, because the liver minutes have already passed.) I'm done. I got the information, and there, of course, I was given some half-information, so to speak, false information, so that would be the first question. You can answer that, so I'll put in an extra one.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1424	The President. Here you go, Mr. Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1425	I can't give you a complete answer. You must understand, too, that by the new Government Act, there have been certain things going on here. Earlier, in the past, this was the Ministry of Agriculture and Trade, so we're doing a partial balance. We're parallel to that and there's a little bit of a problem about this drought, about the intervention measures we had to take. Also, what the finance minister just said, we were struck by the catastrophic state of the budget, the catastrophic state of the ministry itself, the unrealistically planned budgets and everything that came to our attention. According to all the assurances I have, since your basic question was – when will budget commitments be paid towards field veterinary services? According to all the assurances we have, we're still seeing it all. We will start with these payments and in 2012, all commitments from 2012 should be met. That's what I can tell you right now. Anything else you're interested in, refer to the Ministry of Agriculture and you'll get an answer within the time limit.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1427	I must say, the opposition can be constructive. I have one suggestion before I raise my second question. In the Demochrist Christian Party, which counts an extremely large number of veterinarians, which is why today's topic, there is a Committee on Agriculture, which is made up of distinguished experts. Of course, you have, among other things, experts in the party to which you belong, so I hope that this is the case for a member of the SNS, otherwise one of the people I consider an expert on my work, which is Mr Zoran Mašić. My second question is – why is the fee of the veterinary sanity check-up under the "Official Messenger" Regulation No. 69/2001. as his own income to the ministry is extremely weak? I don't suppose you'll be able to answer this question right away. This question is significant for the following reasons, and I would say that the key is the success of this whole problem. This fee should be paid by all those who have slaughter facilities, meat cutting, meat processing, game, meat processing, the production of sausage wrappers, etc. After all, in Serbia, we have 127 objects for slaughtering cattle and pigs and about 300 objects for slaughtering livestock, or about 300 combined objects. Income in 2011 was 852.115,733,21 dinar. The 2012 income was 609.055.116,93 dinars by 24 August. Experts who deal with this business and who know their business say this income must be at least two billion dinars. Of course, that is where the famous question comes from – where is the difference, or where is the money? I'm not taking data from the Republic Bureau of Statistics, I believe you own it, it's in the scope of your work. All I've brought out are perfectly accurate and accurate data, data that are no secret and no data that, after all, represents a completely harsh truth. If you could, answer my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1428	Here you go, Mr. Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1429	I can give you the answer as well as the previous question. Get me the data, because these are too many professional questions and they certainly require some better analysis. I can say in general exactly what the finance minister also said about those own revenues. All these own incomes are unreally planned. They were the source of everything and everything, so I wouldn't use a more difficult word. If I were to tell you that the Water Directorate provided for its own revenue of six billion, which was to be achieved now, and we made one billion. If a total of 15 billion were scheduled to be realized at the Ministry of Agriculture until, I think, on September 1st, a half-breeding four was achieved, then you're clear on all the moves we want to make in the finance segment and try to reform. Yeah, there's a lot of good experts. I've heard a lot of suggestions. I expect that section of the Ministry of Agriculture to come to order. Believe me, we'll do everything we can to improve this relationship with the users of these services. Of course, that goes on, please send some questions and you'll get a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1430	Mrs. Batic, come in. Please sign in one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1431	I think I've given you enough data and now at this point you'll see it from the notes you get. I'm sure these numbers match that report you've been reading, or at least you've read it. My next question was addressed to Justice Minister Selakovic. It's very clear and direct. If he can't respond orally, and I don't think there's gonna be a chance, he can get me a written answer. The question is – do you also know what stage the procedure is in, and what legal actions have been taken on the criminal report submitted by DHSS against Mladjan Dinkic, which counts about 800 pages with a bunch of material evidence? Who's going to answer if it's determined to be a criminal report, and the DHSS has indications, physically taken out of the U.S. Attorney's building on Ustasha Street?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1432	Here you go, Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1433	As you yourself have said, you will receive a written response, and in any case the one responsible for such a thing will answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1434	Thank you, MP Ranka Savik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1435	Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen, today I would like to refer two questions to Minister Dinkic and one question to the government, or to the Prime Minister. The first question concerns the fact that after the Strasbourg court rulings, as well as the individual judgments of our courts on the basis of which workers exercise the right to collect unpaid earnings and in restructured enterprises. The problem of not paying off earnings based on judicial rulings has been raised alarmingly, so I ask the following question - does the Government know what the total amount of workers' claims based on unpaid earnings is and how does the Government intend to ensure payment of unpaid earnings, without the companies going bankrupt and that those working now in those companies are not threatened? I'm talking to you because it's been about enterprises in restructuring. I was listening to your press conference today. So, I'm aware, it's about Jelizara Smederevo, announcing that Jelizara Smederevo will be resolved by the end of the year. However, I ask the question whether the new government is bound by an agreement signed by the previous government with the unions and where it is decidently said that Jelizara Smederevo will start working on September 1st in one way or another. So either by selling Jellyzara Smederevo or by taking over the state to Jelizar Smederevo and starting production. I don't think I should remind you that there are 5,000 people employed in Jelizara Smederevo, and that the whole region, the whole of Smedereva, depends on Želizara Smederevo, and that, indirectly, the entire metal complex of Serbia, which, unfortunately, is in a catastrophic situation, depends on the launch of the Ironworks. The third question, which I would like to ask, is that we are witnessing daily gatherings, is mass-announced new, significantly higher prices and a practical increase in the prices of all vital products and services. The Minister of Agriculture has just announced a food collection. I ask the question - what social measures the government intends to bring, to mitigate the consequences of permanent gatherings and protect the elemental civilizational level of living standards of the most endangered categories of population.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1436	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1437	Of course I know this problem, which you mentioned, about the judgments in Strasbourg for not paying off the profits of these companies that are in trouble and are in the restructuring process. So there's a lot of companies in that status. They just don't have a market for their products. Many of them were on state subsidies, and these workers were formally employed, and they were essentially not working, but they were exercising profit rights, sued by the companies, the state. Whenever a court ruling comes, these companies have to pay off what's legal. I'm going to ask my services and see what is the exact number of cases that are now under trial. It's not easy to solve, because paying off those backlogs, some of them back in the '90s, violates otherwise a difficult position in these companies, but we'll try to find solutions. The solution isn't easy. I'll provide you with the correct answer in writing, which is the number of enterprises. As for Jellyzara, as you know, Jellyzara is, you are absolutely right, very important for Serbia's complete economic system. Considering that while working, it accounted for as much as 5% of Serbia's total industrial production and as much as 14% of Serbia's total exports. Of course, because of the huge problem of employees, 5,000 people in Smederev were getting paid and living from Jelizara and plus all of these indirect and indirect effects that it was a big problem. It's one of the basic priorities now for the entire government, not just for my ministry, to find a solution. I have to say, we've found a situation where the previous government has called one tender that has been registered by three companies. None of those three companies have contacted us since the government was formed to request some meetings. The offers, as far as I know, haven't been delivered. However, we did not sit on our hands. You know, there aren't many countries where a strategic partner could come from. There's got to be someone who can get iron ore, who can get coke and who can make economically profitable production. After visiting Mr. Vukic to the Russian Federation, we had the opportunity to talk to a brand-new company that hasn't appeared in this tender these days, and it's really huge. He employs 70,000 people. There's a six-billion-dollar-a-year traffic, which has expressed interest, and now we're in a phase of talking to that company. Of course, we will do everything we can to solve this problem in a way that will be good for Serbia, and for Smederevo, for the workers of Jelizara, for the complete economy. What's a fact is that in the next period, we need a partner who won't just use a high furnace to melt iron raw materials and produce low-priced semi-factories. We need much more products of a higher degree of profitability, such as tins in the plant in Šapec. It is this company that has the idea that, if it enters the final decision to take over Jelizara, it is going to invest that would allow the production of multiple-degree processing, including car bodywork, tanks, and extend the range. Otherwise, it doesn't make sense before a strategic partner starts production. That's the answer to this question about talking to previous people in the government with unions. Why? Because when Jellyzara does that, it costs the state about 180m euros. When forced leave, workers cost the state 120m euros a year. So we have a disastrously bad situation in both cases. However, it is now, on the one hand, and the need to get rid of, and on the other hand, a hot potato that, along with Agrobank, has reached the hands of the government, especially us in the Ministry of Finance and Business. But we're doing everything we can to solve this together, and we're hoping to make it work. I expect a concrete offer from this company soon. Then we'll see, we'll keep talking. Of course, all companies that are large and recognized in the world are welcome to launch the Iron. I say again, realistically, only a few companies from the Russian Federation, Ukraine, possibly China and India, could be considered. In which the Russian Federation is the best partner for this particular case. In that sense, we'll do everything we can to find a partner. Until then, workers receive 60% of their earnings. However, our goal is not to get them to sit at home, but to train Jellyzar, but in a way that the state does not lose. If they were to launch the Jellyzara now, the state would lose 180m euros annually. That's a lot more than they were complete subsidies for the former flag. So, let's say, I remember that half a billion euros were given for the flag over a period of about seven years, and this is 180m euros a year. It's not rational to work that way. That's why we're looking for a partner. I hope we can make it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1438	Mr. Ljajic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1439	Regarding the question of price growth, I can tell you what's in the Department of Trade's intelligence. Three groups of measures will also need to be added to this measures to be taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the protection of the most vulnerable categories of population. One of the measures I was already talking about – intervention related to corn, to help livestock producers to prevent as much as possible the price of meat and milk from being savaged. The second is the intervention of wheat, where we stand far better than when it comes to corn and it will go towards the bread producers. The second group of measures refers to what the previous agriculture ministry has done. By 30 September, the maximum price of flour bread of type 500 will remain. After that, we'll see what measures we take. In any case, we must make certain types of bread remain protected. The third group of measures refers to what already exists, and that is the margin regulation. Although the regulation was quite criticised by the larger trade chains, I think it played a very significant role because it prevented the price from being savaged on the market for five basic life supplies. That regulation will remain in force until the end of the year, and after that we will see if we will introduce so-called. the social basket or we'll have to protect certain kinds of milk, certain kinds of meat, oil, sugar, for those who are the most endangered. A certain type of product, i.e. these five, must be at controlled prices.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1440	Thank you. Mrs. Savic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1441	I don't think the workers of Serbia or those who are watching us will be very happy with these answers, especially with regard to these charges according to court rulings. I really appeal and ask the Ministry of Economy to take this problem much more seriously, because today you have a situation that a lot of those who have a market, let's say, "The Rakovic engine industry", has one export job and it's completely disabled to work because its accounts are blocked, precisely for these reasons. For these reasons, I think that the Serbian government must have this issue in one system way or one more concrete way to resolve it. Also, I don't think the Ironworks will be happy with this answer. It's a good thing he's trying to solve the Ironstone issue, but it's not a good thing some agreements and agreements are being signed in this country all the time. So the previous government did sign the agreement and it did to all those who are now sitting in houses receiving 60% said that on September 1st they were coming to work. We have hundreds and thousands of calls from the union these days with questions - are we coming to work on September 1st? I do urge the Ministry of Economy to hold a meeting with representatives of the three representative unions of the "Smederevo" within a very short period of time, so on September 1st.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1442	Thank you. Mr. Dinkic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1443	It's easy to say it like this. Of course, I am not running away from talking to everyone, and I want to talk to all the unions, as I have talked to Slavica Djukic today and the health unions, as I have talked to Resolute Minister Obradovic about with the education unions, as we are talking and I want to talk to all the unions, and I've been to Gosa and I'm not running away from that conversation either. But there's no use talking if there's no money. Because if we translate this figure, the 180m euros that costs a loss to launch when Serbia without ore, iron, has no coke, it does and loses to the price, it's less than a total annual agrarian budget you put in "The Iron" in order for 5,000 people to have a job. Like this, 350,000 farmers get that money. If the budget were in excess and we had an excess of 180m euros, if the previous government had left it to us, I would be happy to even uneconomically start that topic, so that people would have a job. When a deficit of 2.2 billion euros is left, and when we have more plus drought, when we have a problem with a non-equitable economy, when we have everything left of the previous finance minister, of course we have to go rationally. It is rational to be quick and to find a partner who will invest his money not only in launching the Ironworks, but in new investments, make it profitable and keep it at this level permanently. Apparently, the Americans weren't able to do that. We can talk about what we want, they also didn't have iron ore, they didn't have coke, they couldn't do it because in the meantime the prices of finished products fell and they didn't invest in improving the range, they got products where they could make more money. If the Americans couldn't, maybe the Russians could, maybe somebody third, let's see. But we, Serbs, can't. We can, but give one extra agrarian budget to these 5,000 people. I hope people understand that, but that doesn't mean we're gonna let them down. They get salaries, which aren't small, let me tell you right away. So, according to my information, the people at the Ironworks, I apologize if I'm wrong, that's what my associates told me, today, of course, they're not guilty of not working, they're sitting at home, and they're getting 60,000 dinars, because their salary is 100,000. That's what I heard. Is it true, isn't it, I don't know. So the average is 60,000 dinars. It may be less, I agree, but, in any case, it's not a small fee, even when it's 60% of the pay. But again, these people aren't guilty. But "The Irons," which hasn't been state-owned in the last eight years, has lost its market and what else is left for it than to find a new partner now? We're doing everything we can to find this partner. The previous government did try it, but if these companies wanted to take over, they had a chance. Then the government extended the deadline, etc. They're all small-gabarit companies, and it's obvious they can't handle taking over the Ironworks. So I asked those who could help, which is also the prime minister and vice president of the government, for us all to look together and see if we could bring in some huge company from a big country that has experience in that. We're on our way to that conversation. I hope we finish them off and hope it helps us solve the problem permanently, not give some money to start up now, so it stops again. There's no solution. Otherwise, I'd like to ask unions for a constructive role in this first problem, see how we can do it together. There are calls from industrial unions and metals, let's see how we can solve these issues together and pay off these outstanding earnings to the workers of the Kraljevo car factory without destroying existing workers who work anyway in difficult conditions. Anyway, thanks for the questions. I think they were constructive.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1444	Mr. Dacic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1445	I'd just like to lean on this debate. First, I'd like to tell Mrs. Savic that we held yesterday a session of the College of the Social-Economic Council in the old system. It is my intention to talk to all trade unions, respecting some of the rules of social dialogue, which means that social dialogue has three sides – government representatives, i.e. the state, employers and union representatives. At today's session, the government has already established its share of the socio-economic council. As prime minister, I accepted their proposal and request to participate as prime minister in the work of the Social-Economic Council. The composition will include the finance minister, which is also normal, responsible ministers who are from individual resolutions where there are most of these issues that are from the work round of the Social-Economic Council, meaning Energy Minister, Minister of Health, Minister of Education and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. Since the mandate of the previous council stands out next week, our goal is to establish a new set of councils as soon as possible, so that he can consider, among other things, what Minister Dinkic was talking about earlier, some concept of the measures proposed to stabilise economic and social opportunities in our country. The team, of course, and I appeal that the problems that exist in determining representativeness are somehow not reflected in socio-economic dialogue. This means that both employers and union representatives should have clear criteria for identifying representativeness, so that this would not be the main topic of dialogue being conducted, because then we missed the topic, so that I am really ready, as prime minister, to participate in a meeting with the unions, whether they are representative or not, with the desire to show that the essence of this Serbian government is not government, in the sense that it commands everyone, but that it helps, and that means that we help workers and trade unions, or businesses. But when you mentioned "Sartid", you know that lately and every day is over, and just these days was the strongest list of those famous privatisations that were reportedly sent from the EU. Well, "Sardid" is number one on that list, just so you know and it won't be, of course, easy for everyone who comes now to, is there any reason for it to be "Sartid," or isn't there? Now let them answer that question to those who were in power during that period, but don't now when the EU proposes something that you don't like, to say that they are wrong, and when it comes to some others, then we need to listen to the EU's views. We here, as the first Deputy Prime Minister said, are not working, nor are we entering the EU for the sake of the EU, but are coming in because of us. We should also arrest and prosecute all those who have violated the laws, not because someone else is going to praise us, but because of us and our citizens. I just want to be at the end, because I don't know, right, until 7:00 a.m. it's done until 19.20, since no one's mentioned it, I expected someone to say, at least praise us in one. Have you ever had more members of the government asking MPs questions? I think he still deserves it, maybe not a confession and commendation, but at least your attention. All right, let's see who's clapping. Write down who doesn't applaud, please. I'm kidding, of course. Of course, I want to thank you at all for the existence of this institution of parliamentary matters. As you know, I am 22 years, or 21 years, 20 years in Parliament, which is in federal, which is in the Republic. This institution of parliamentary issues was never serious because whenever this issue of asking parliamentary questions began, everyone used it to leave the meeting and it was known to be no one else in the hall at that time. I think that this is one significant institution of democratisation of our political life and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in its overall composition will come, as you yourself said, in all the terms that are meant to ask and answer your parliamentary questions and I, of course, thank all those who have asked these questions, whether you are satisfied with the answers or not, because I cannot say whether I am satisfied with the questions, or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1446	Mrs. Savic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1447	Since the prime minister spoke about social dialogue and the work of the Social-Economic Council, they all speak, or I always say what hurts the most, or at least it hurts the most union. I would use this moment and this asking questions to simply appeal to the prime minister to lead with my authority to avoid discrimination so far, and you said you wanted to talk to both the representative and the unrepresentative, and yesterday you spoke to the non-representative, of the three social partners, only one representative. So I appeal, although it is sad that I have to appeal, that the system would have to produce such a consequence, that the law in Serbia should be respected, that there should be no discrimination and that it should be applied equally to everything. I'm not asking anything else, just as much for everyone, so whoever's representative, be on the Social-Economics Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1448	The word is by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1449	I would ask the question of the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Knezevic, after this drought, measures have been taken and I would like you to repeat them here and tell us the deadlines in which the fact of these measures will take place and I am talking about short-term measures. Also, Mr. Minister, I'd like you to say something about the long-term plan, how this situation, if it happens to happen again in some years, so that the consequences are less. Otherwise, I have to say, the reaction was very rapid and it's commendable. What I want to talk about and hear your answers about long-term measures, that's first of all, if we're going to do something by the irrigation system. Irrigation systems allow practically to increase yields, at least twice, of the same cultures, and if irrigated, some other cultures, whose yields on the same unit of surface, could be used five to ten times. Let me just add, let's say, Croatia is watering much more than we're watering, they're watering about 8% of their territory, Romania about 14%, and Bulgaria is even 18%. Of course, in the irrigation system, because I'm talking about this long-term system, it's also very important to take the excess water, because this is the situation in Serbia, especially in Vojvodina, that in some territories we have excess water and these systems can also be used to drain where we have excess water, but for irrigation, where necessary. I think that if we were to irrigate and if the yields were to increase, we automatically have a few effects of that, first of all, hiring a larger number of people. What is very important for farmers, primary producers, that they then in collaboration with processors get much more opportunities in processing, because the volume of processing is increasing and of course, the effect for the country is great, so I would ask you, Mr. Minister, to tell us once again about the short-term effects, or about your measures that you have announced, but also about those long-term plans.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1450	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1451	In order not to repeat myself, I was saying something about it, but your question was about deadlines, and I think it's extremely important, from this first set, the first segment of these measures, where we basically want to free farmers of certain financial contributions and to extend these obligations. We did everything on our part, talked to the banks, sent letters, and the Prime Minister also signed a letter yesterday in that sense, so we basically finished that part, and I think that it will be realized and we need to sign some contracts, regulate all of that, and I think that since 15 September it will all be in effect. In this second segment of the measure, today the Minister of Trade spoke about intervention on the market, about the purchase of up to 200,000 tonnes of mercantile corn, and I think that will be achieved very quickly, because on a daily basis on the world market, and we are also growing the price of corn, so it would be instructed to do so as soon as possible. As for this segment of the third, so it's direct subsidies, we've brought in two of the seven planned acts today, and we expect to bring in the other five after the budget rebalance, with these diesel-fuel measures and the hectare-based subsidies starting to apply very quickly, meaning in about ten and fifteen days. As far as they're concerned, they're basically short-term measures, as you called them, meaning emergency aid to farmers who have suffered severe drought damage. As for long-term measures, we have a few things here. So, firstly, this is our strategic goal that all the political parties in the pre-election campaign talked about, which was also defined by this government in the prime minister's exposé in July, that is, an increase in the Agrarian budget. Our stated goal is 5% of the total budget to be intended for agriculture, at this point it's about 2.4%, I think it's even less, because of course some of its own revenues are planned. We expect it to arrive at 4% next year and the already designed budget to be at least those famous 5% in 2014. Another strategic goal is the predictability of an environment in which agricultural producers will have opportunities and ways to plan their production, which I also spoke about in response to my fellow SVM. I think we'll be in dynamics sometime by the end of September, so we'll have that law, let it go into public debate, and it'll be passed along with the budget law, somewhere in November. You spoke the most, and I think it's an extremely important question about the third segment of our strategic plan, it's investment. So, without investment, the entire economy, and especially agriculture, there is no result. I've had opportunities to speak these days, speak to many foreign representatives, among other things there was an ambassador of Israel. I must admit that I was a fragmented data that they have on agricultural production and what results they provide. Ever since he told me that they're 95% desert land, that they've done all this just by watering, then I was just gonna say, "I'm just thrilled." All the conversators who come say -- God looked at you, you have the earth, you have the sun, you have the water, but it seems that God has damaged us a little bit in some other things, so it seems we haven't been able to Valorize all the things that God has sent us. Of course we want through these investments to try to raise our, above all, conditions for better yields, including irrigation. But according to the way we talked, our goal is to create an environment for someone to come and invest in it. Whether it will be domestic investors, or foreign investors, is completely irrelevant, but we need to create conditions such as building up land. Because now it's totally irrational for the gulf systems to be set to five, ten, fifteen, twenty places, by grouping, and that the state can do, to create this environment, to create a prerequisite for much cheaper, more efficient installation of these gulf systems. We will also participate in this investment cycle, we now have certain subsidies to invest in agriculture, we will try, of course, to educate our agricultural holdings, agricultural producers to invest in irrigation. We have some of the projects now, and we're already doing a big project that I think is somewhere worth a billion dinars, where the canals are being cleared. But I have to admit, and I don't want to be wrong about my soul, it might exist, but I've been looking at the Department of Agriculture's professional services, and I didn't get some roof strategic project to say what it looks like now, and what it's supposed to look like in five, ten, or twenty years, and then we're doing it in phases. Well, I guess I'm just saying I don't want to be wrong my soul, that it's done like this from moment to moment, from the possibility that when there's money then it's done, when there's no money, then it stops. I think it's one serious project that can bring this Serbia a lot of good.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1452	Here you go, Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1453	Thank you. Mr. Minister, my next question is about the liberalisation of agricultural imports due in 2014. When we were listening to the exposés of the Prime Minister here in the Assembly, I was talking about the importance of starting negotiations on the activation of the safeguard clause provided for in Article 41. Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which allows for the suspension of the application of the SAA in case I quote "to be in great harm to a branch of the economy". In this case indeed, and especially after this drought, I think that the liberalisation that would take place in 2014 would be fatal to Serbian agriculture because we in Serbian agriculture have more problems. One is the debt of the state, the other is subsidies that are much less than those in the environment, and unfortunately sometimes later, more specifically, our farmers have the most expensive loans in the environment. I also have to say that our infrastructure is not satisfactory. So when I read in your interview that you were thinking about activating this clause 41 and starting negotiations with the EU on delaying the application of the liberalisation of imports of agricultural products, it made me happy and I would like to hear what your plans are about.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1454	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1455	I have to say that I've suffered a lot of criticism precisely because of that interview, but I remain in that position. You asked the question practically what awaits us in 1.1.2014? We will feel the consequences of a wrong policy by the previous government on Serbia's EU accession term. The fact that this authority did not foresee and was not considering adequate measures to protect the entire economy, including agriculture in competition and the opening of the European market. So, the average customs rates will drop to about 1.5% in 2014, our producers will not be competitive because of the very system of subsidies that you have talked about and I remain behind, and I think the prime minister in his Expoze made that clear, that we will try to talk to partners from the EU and try to extend that deadline. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1456	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1457	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I think it's necessary and you fight when there's a budget to increase to 5%, twice as much as it has been because in previous budgets and rebalances it's always been reduced, at least in the last four years. Also, I think it is necessary, along with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy, that you work together on more favourable loans and I'm sure you can do that for farmers who would be on long-term terms, minimum of 10 years, with a grace period of two to three years. But also to think about grants if they were used for high-tech processes in processing, or in some high-tech mechanism. They use it very much in the EU, give them credit, and if it's all filled out as planned, then these loans are at least turning to the most non-refundable part. Of course, a stable subsidy system is also needed, but what is very important and what should be thought about is a new model of export subsidies. Because we have a healthy part of the Serbian economy, which is this export part, especially in agriculture, and I think that it needs to be subsidized even more to achieve some percentage of how the agricultural producers are subsidized. I mean, if you go this way to heal Serbian agriculture as one of the most important segments of the Serbian economy, you will have DSS support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1458	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1459	I would like to thank Mr. President, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Prime Minister. First of all, to say that it is indeed a great pleasure to see here almost the entire government of the Republic of Serbia in this Parliament and that is absolutely for every praise one of them I would say, now the better things that the Serbian Government has done and we really expect this trend to continue and I have no doubt about it. What I'd like to ask is, first of all, Minister Velimir Ilic, I'm sorry he's not in the O.R. right now. The question concerns Corridor 11 which, in some internal agreement, seems shared with Minister Mrkonjic, who runs Corridor 10, if I'm wrong. In fact, I remain unclear to the Serbian citizens that Minister Ilic said he had provided means of expropriation on Corridor 11 by agreeing with NIS that they would give the means for expropriation, and in return they would get pumps on that corridor. So, my question -- on what procedure of public procurement and he discussed and reached this agreement with NIS, about this transaction, is it perhaps the procedure that was incorporated into the new Public Procurement Act, which he is announcing, which we have not yet seen, and we do not doubt that it is to the greatest extent a good law. So I really don't have anything against the company that's been put out, actually those who know me and members of the government know that at one point we've played an important job for this country. So try to ignore this company's name, except it's a private-capital company. So, I'm just curious about how a private company can pay for the expropriation and in return to get the opportunity to build pumps, and that it wasn't done through any tender procedure since a direct contract is possible, it seems to me to be equal to, 15,000 dinars or less, or if there was an international agreement like we had for NIS. Another question for Mr Dinkic. Since it announced that the government will provide funds to the private company Gosa, for the payout of workers, who are four months late, since the Labour Law provides for the punishment for the offence, as confirmed by the Citizens' Protector Mr Jankovic. I ask if this violates or does not apply the law and why an employer who does not respect his contractual obligations is not punished. Instead, taxpayers are exposed to costs that can be taken in some way, Mr Dinkic, as a gift to a private company. Whether the wagons to be ordered by Gossa are really needed by the Serbian Railways, which has reduced the volume of activity and the matter of huge losses. Is it not better to encourage exports, but in a transparent way and thus to engage and in which everyone can compete who are interested? I apologize for your extensiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1460	Mr. Dinkich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1461	I will answer both questions, since Mr Ilic is not here, and it is related to expropriation, given that in the end line expropriation is paid from the department of finance. As for Gosse, it is one of the best car factories in Serbia and generally in the region. They, like all other car factories, today when the demand for these products falls, have had problems at the beginning of this year. We decided to restart the programme to help car construction, not only Gosa, but all the car factories in Serbia that include the machinery industry in Nis and the car factory Kraljevo and Želvos in Smederevo, Shinvos and the car factory in Subotica. This is one of our potentials, which, of course, as in all other countries in times of crisis, is hard to work. That's why we've singled these funds out of the complete car construction program, and one part of it goes to Gossa. Otherwise, we made an agreement, as it is a Slovak company, that, given that we have now helped them get out of trouble, that in the coming period the state will put one director in the company that will control how the agreement is implemented and that, if they achieve profits in the coming years, 50% will go to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Our idea is that if we see that some company is saying that we don't take our hands off it, depending on whether it's state or private. There are Serbian workers, 450 people from Smederjevska Palanka, and we went there to help, not the Slovaks, but the Serbs who work in the company. We didn't want to let them down, we started production. Do the trains need Serbian Railways, so of course they do. You know, the railroad doesn't have the money to buy them. Here's the idea of one move to provide a good product for our railway, and on the other hand, to employ capacities and make workers live off their work. Also, as you know, an agreement was made in the previous period with Republika Srpska on the goods loan approved by this assembly, of 16m euros and the following year our car manufacturers will also work for Republika Srpska. I hope we can make deals with some other countries like Azerbaijan and third countries, but if we sell cars there we'll get half back into the budget, that's, let's say, a deal with Gossa leadership after we've helped them now. We're going to set this up as a principle in all state-owned enterprises as long as they're state-owned, as long as they're not private as long as they're not private, that if the state is helping to get a job abroad, half of the job is being paid into the state budget. As far as the questions of expropriation are concerned. As you know, an interstate agreement was signed with Azerbaijan on a loan to build part of the highway in Corridor 11, but the previous government did not foresee in the budget an expropriation fund, as it did not provide for the commitment to the "Fiyat", as many other commitments did not provide for the payment of complete subsidies per hectare, as many other commitments had not been provided. Minister Ilic was in trouble, how to get the company that's moving to do the stock on the road to Corridor 11, how to pay for the expropriation at all so they can start working. He had this idea he made publicly. He came to me and I told him he couldn't do it that way. Then we've transferred to the budget process of an aperitration that won't be used for expropriation and paid off the first part, and we're going to add two billion dinars to the rebalancing process, not just for the expropriation on this share, but also for the expropriation on the other shares. Otherwise, his idea was to find additional means of expropriation, which will be needed in 2013, in this way, and it is clear that this must be done through the tender procedure. So, don't worry, we'll make sure everything goes according to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1462	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1463	Of course, I am very pleased with the answer to the question about NIS and Corridor 11. I thank Minister Dinkic, who confirmed our legitimate constructive suspicion, if I may say so. It remains unclear about Gossu, because no one is against here, as you say, to help Serbian workers, nor is anyone against getting paid. We are only to give them a job, to enable them in some way and to encourage exports, in one transparent way and that these funds can be made possible to others who are interested in the competition in which other entities would participate. You're making a contradiction at the same time, Mr. Dinkic. You say, you remember what you said, we're not giving money to Sartid because it's a bottomless hole, and it's also a private company, and now you're doing the same thing at Gossa. Are the Serbian workers in Sartide less Serbian than those in Gosa that you have on that side? I don't get it now. Both are privately owned. What I'm saying is that you have a problem in some projects when you're giving away, and somewhere you don't give away money. What's for sure is that there are a lot of things that haven't been done behind us and that's a fact, but the fact is that not everything can come down to the past Ministry of Finance, but it can't all go down to the Ministry of Economy either. You know very well, and you yourself are somewhat shy, though, in your presentation, saying that the Ministry of Economy has been working hard and in the last session to find a partner for "Sartid" in Smederev and that's true, but that's what ministers from your government did. And they're also, and you know very well, looking for a partner for Gossu as well. They've been looking for Gossa, and it's been sold. She went to a Slovak company. I mean, in that sense, you have to be consistent and say, yes, we shared both good and bad in the previous government, not talking about some shared responsibility that really doesn't have a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1464	Mr. Dinkich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1465	For consistency, Mr. Stefanovic, of course, we came here to answer questions, but only one request, when you ask a question, first inform yourself of the facts. The fact is that Sartid is not a private firm but a state firm at the moment, given that the previous government took over for one dollar. It was private until the new year, now it's state-owned. That's one thing. The state that runs that company pays these 60% salaries to workers who don't work because it's less cost than when they work, because the loss would be much higher when they work. The second thing, you should also ask yourself that the previous government paid subsidies to start production. The "Brothership" from Saturday, which also owns the Slovak company, has no difference between the company in Subotica and Smederjevska Palanca. Both are owned by two different Slovak companies, and the government has helped them because there is a crisis in this industry and there are workers who are citizens of Serbia. Whether they live in Subotica or live in Smederjevska Palanca, it doesn't matter. If this was done by the previous government, it didn't bother you, I don't know why the problem is now that we solve this problem, or my question is why the previous government didn't help and Gossi, but it was waiting to form a new one to put out that fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1466	Mr. Stefanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1467	Yes, it is. To be precise, I said – while she was a private company you did not want to participate in, which I completely understand, because I know that you are a man who is in economic terms a complete liberal. I know you have a problem with this government that's acting completely the opposite at this point and that's a fact. Now, just because there were situations like this before doesn't mean something like that is allowed, and I've shown you that. I don't want to say here that you've made a catastrophic mistake, and somewhere else you haven't, but I want you to be consistent and then tell others who have foreign capital, that they too can apply to own these facilities with your advisors, with TV cameras, and that you can promise them four billion dinars, because they too expect the state to get rid of the bag there. Personally, I don't mind, because I'm not in the position that the state should raise its hands from the economy, as I know it is in the positions that I and Prime Minister Dacic are in, but you have an internal conflict because of your previous views and what you stood for in the Serbian economy. Please, that's all I'm talking about. Be consistent in this regard, and this for NIS and Corridor 11 I thank you for confirming that, in the end, there will be no announced tender of Mr Ilic's apartment, but the state will pay for the expropriation of the land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-08-30-0.u1468	Thank you. Let me finally say that I am extremely pleased that the members of the government have attended today's session in this large number, but that the National Assembly will insist in the future that this trend continue and that our control role will always be significant in relation to the work of the entire government. I would like to take the opportunity to give you an invitation to invite all fellow Members of the National Assembly to attend the 100th anniversary of the Serbian Air Force celebration, which will be held Sunday at the Batajni airport. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
