ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5152	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 112 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Slobodan Veličković, Vesna Stepić, Snezana Bogosavljevic Bošković. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on today's session, in addition to the representatives of the promoters: Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry, Mr Verica Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technology, Goran Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment and Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, Minister of Health, called on the members of the Ministry of Finance and Industry to attend and Vlajko Senić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Economy, Ljubica Matic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Industry, Nada Mirkovic, Head of Finance and Business of Finance and Business, the Ministry of Finance of Finance and Finance of Finance, the Government of the Ministry of the Government of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. We continue a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. The word is made by MP Ivan Jokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5153	Dear President, honourable ministers, representatives of the government, honourable MPs, before I say anything about the draft Budget Law, it is necessary to point to the state of public finances at the time of the adoption of the Law. We adopt the law at the end of the year in which we record the budget deficit of 6.7% of GDP. This government has inherited the worst state of public finances in the last 12 years. Two billion euros were missing for the service of current obligations, for the service of public debt another three billion. The previous speakers have called for an evaluation of the Fiscal Council, but it seems to me, selectively, to be drawn from the context of a particular sentence. How the Fiscal Council draws attention to the seriousness of the problems and dangers threatened at the time of the adoption of the 2013 Budget Law. The proposed 2013 budget plans a strong reduction of the country's deficit from 6.7% of GDP from 2012 to 3.6% of GDP, from around 220 billion dinars to 132 billion dinars. A sharp reduction in deficits is needed to halt uncontrollable public debt growth at the end of 2013. Public debt has doubled its participation in GDP from 30% of GDP to 60% since 2008. If a similar trend continued in 2013, there would certainly be a public debt crisis, and this would result in macroeconomic instability, a major decline in GDP and unemployment. Given this, we need to define our expectations for the 2013 Budget Law, but not a list of good wishes, but objective expectations from the state. With the 2013 Budget Law, the government set itself high goals, primarily to reduce the deficit to 3.6% of GDP. The government could have set lower, easier, viable targets, so once we analyze the implementation of the 2013 budget, it would have been safer in a more favourable position. Instead, the government is brave and it is for respect to set high goals that are not easy to achieve. This showed a high degree of responsibility and showed readiness to carry out radical reforms in the area of public finances. The revenue of the Republic budget in 2013 was planned, I agree, optimistic, but the Fiscal Council expects that it will come true and I have nothing to add, except that this is due to the structural measures that the government has taken in the previous period. When we talk about expenditures, it is noticeable that the largest increase is related to interest, social protection and agriculture. Also, a high degree of understanding for local self-government problems has been observed, despite the perverse attitudes of respected economists. This was also recognized by the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, which positively assessed the draft Budget Law. At the same time, savings in material costs and the reduction of subsidies were noticeable. The draft Budget Law clears the government's strategy, primarily stabilising public finances and reducing debt. The first steps towards stabilising public finances have already been made and have yielded the expected results. The draft Budget Law before us is the most important document the government is working on this year. I hope that the implementation of the budget will first stop negative movements and allow for further reduction of the budget deficit. Economic growth and Serbia's economic recovery.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5154	Next, Radojko Obradovic was reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5155	The budget is the most important document to come to Parliament during the year. The fact that, for the first time in years after several years, the budget arrived within the legal deadline, it is until November 1st, and the fact that the budget will first be passed before the law, before the deadline foreseen, at least that is what we hope for, and that is December 15th. That fact has caused general joy among speakers and in the public. That fact speaks precisely about the depth of the economic and political crisis that Serbia is in today. If we look forward to the fact that the government respects the law, and if we look forward to the fact that the government has for the first time respected what it writes and delivered to the Assembly in time, then this is a serious problem in which Serbia today is the second thing, that the Law has come in time, it has given the MPs more time to analyse it, but qualitatively nothing has changed in the procedure of adopting the Budget Law. We got the Budget Law 20 days ago, we had more time to read, the Committee sat down once, there was no other information, we're going to hold this session, we're going to have some time, and nothing has changed qualitatively in the procedure itself. There was a lot of talk about percentages, percentages, parameters, reality or unrealisticity. The budget is a very simple thing. The budget is like life, it's just a question of whether you're willing to read it and look at it the right way. Budget is a list of incomes and a list of expenditures, all that is spent in Serbia and what is earned in Serbia. It is not a problem that Serbia's revenues are low, Serbia's revenues are not as low as the actual costs. He's too busy in the public sector, too unemployed. Serbia spends more than it produces. Each new unemployed reduces revenues to the budget, each new unemployed reduces revenues to social funds, each new unemployed -- one consumer on the market less, and on the other hand, raises budget costs. What is our serious objection to economic policy, which has been led over the past four years, and what is the basic problem with this budget, is that the number of employees in Serbia and 2013 will be reduced. The budget law provides for several thousand people who will be jobless, and on the other hand, the Budget Law predicts that there will be new thousands and some employees in the public sector. That's a serious problem. It's a serious obstacle to any serious development. Of course, fiscal adjustment had to be made if fiscal adjustment was called for increasing taxes, and savings are on pensions and wages. Tax increase is not a reform of the tax system and the increase in tax rates does not change the system of defeat. There may be still a small space for these rates to increase, but in the long run it does not give any positive effect and does not have an effect on employment. On the other hand, if it can be called savings, and there are colleagues from the Social Democrats, how can there be savings if pensions that have been frozen since the previous four years, two years, if pensions are de facto frozen? In a situation where inflation is double-digit, if pensions increase only a few percentage points, it only says that it creates a socially unsustainable situation in the long term. That's another serious problem with this budget. The third problem is that public debt continues to grow. It's a good thing in 2012 every eight dollars spent was out of credit. The bad thing is, in 2013, every fifth dinar was spent on credit. We are unlike those who say they didn't know what was going on, and four years ago we said it was an unsustainable state, that such a way of maintaining public finances in life would lead us to serious problems. I disagree with Mr Dinkic that there are only three serious economic teams in the country that have serious estimates. There's a fourth, it's a DSS economics team. Four years ago, we warned about all these problems that exist. We also made a proposal for measures that Serbia could significantly improve these performances that I was talking about. We'll be happy to make them available. You have them on our website, so you can use them. But the serious problem is that service of public debt, at this point only for interest takes three times as much as for subsidies in agriculture, far more than for many other separations. That's a serious problem. Serbia is irrevocably dependent on foreign borrowing. It is irrevocably dependent on financial markets that must buy state securities of value. It is important for Serbia, in order for Serbia to survive, that new debts be greater than the commitments made. Serbia must be in charge of at least a little more than commitments are due. I don't know what it's called today, but probably a large number of people in Serbia remember what it was called in the '90s. In the 1990s, it was called pyramidal savings. That's how Dafin and the Horse worked, and that system can only work as long as there are more people who give money to those who take it. If for any reason it is impossible to repay more than the commitments have arrived, Serbia will have a problem with all the contributions coming from the budget. That's a fact. The fact is, nothing's been done to change that thing. Serbia is walking along the wire above the sink today, on a thin wire, and the winds of various challenges can turn it over any moment. If things get worse in Europe, we'll fall off the wire. If the exchange rate changes, we'll fall off the wire. If the banks withdraw from Serbia, we'll fall off the wire. If any more domestic banks get into trouble, we'll fall off the wire. These are the problems of the budget and we need to talk about them, and if some percentage is smaller or higher, anyway, all those estimates that these teams were doing have proved to be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5156	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dejan Radenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5157	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, the 2013 budget brings a sobering for all theoretics of Serbia's collapse of public finances. Another thing is very interesting, which is that global financial organisations and global financial markets see Serbia as a country of responsible authorities and responsible and courageous economic policies. Also, after years of witnessing the budget, which took place in the late December days, Serbia began to remind and remind more and more of the developed EU countries, whose month -- in September, the public debate on the budget is being held, and the month in which the budget is being adopted -- October. If politicians can sometimes be subjective in their estimates, the global financial market is deprived of such impulses, especially the desire to enhance Serbia's economic performance, its fiscal policy credibility and the credibility of the legislative and executive authorities at all. That financial market said that I Serbia everything, but not a country that can be classified in the same basket with fallen countries, and some of them are EU members. If Serbia has sold state-owned bonds at an interest rate below 6%, it is difficult to talk about a country that is insecure, especially if we compare this interest rate and the one required by some EU member states. The objection that this interest rate has been achieved by shortening the handleability of these same bonds is about not knowing the strategic priorities of this majority, which is to put public finances in order, not to push things under the carpet. This majority has a clear idea of how to make public finances the country's resources and what the process should look like. We do not have a desire to deploy debt better in the future by debting as many future generations as possible, rather than socially, responsibly coming out of a crisis that has mostly come to us without our merits, which means that the burden of the crisis cannot be dominantly paid by ordinary citizens, especially if we have the possibility of amortizing the impact of the crisis through deficit financing. As I said at the adoption of the previous budget, the fiscal deficit at the time of the crisis is the basis of the economic alphabet, except for those who, out of their keen desire to preserve the market and ideals of the market and market economy itself, ignore that families are the primary market entities and that the market economy without social dimension for most citizens is transformed into an equal nightmare, as well as a system in which there is no market. If these weren't claims without a basis, the IMF is clearly telling us. The IMF believes that Serbia is already making drastic cuts in 2013, i.e. it has room to finance an even greater deficit than what we are planning, and to wait for the effects of applying the economic system laws that are ahead of us, that they get their full momentum in 2014, if they go towards a minimum deficit. This majority believes that it should not wait, but knows that the good policies that have started to drive the wheel of economy through the acceleration of liquidity, will quickly begin to give effect and that the criticism that budget revenues estimates are exaggerated will simply not be correct. Even if the EU crisis spills, a crisis that we cannot possibly influence, would result in a slower recovery in 2013, we should not give up on something that is a strategic anticyclical policy. If circumstances are different than we could assume with imperfect knowledge and will to make our economy healthier, and the standard of living for citizens at least a little better and bigger, we can do technical rebalancing in the second half of the year, for which there will be no tragedy at all. This budget ahead of us has a solid basis in changes to the system laws. The effects of their implementation will have a beneficial fact on the budget, taking into account all the reductions in budgetary inflows and all the increases that will arise. Some of the changes that are said to create a hole in the budget, such as changing payment deadlines, should improve the overall economic environment, the number of transactions and above all to convince many firms to do more legitimate business than in the gray zone. Unlike some recipes from past times, the state does not set itself up as someone holding a whip and imposing dragon penalties for tax violations, but sets up a sound system. Many assess the effects that new rules on payments, tax debt reprogrammes, and the credibility of the system could do. This is one of the key issues raised by business people, by entrepreneurs, and by large systems. The introduction of order in this area could result in a significant increase in budget revenues, which we are currently missing, as many are determined not to enter much or no legal business at all. The current majority is determined to turn that direction slowly, offering a more attractive environment instead of a threat. Maybe it's a short term of one year to get full credibility and the tax revenues start to generate and expand bases and through a larger scale of business, but that's what's going to happen anyway. If there is any guarantee that this majority will work without wandering, that it will carry out its own policies with credibility, it is the main role of the SPS, which has for years highlighted the principles of the social market economy, consensus and the conduct of reasonable economic policies, which will not go from one extreme to another. Stability and awareness that an individual, family or local community will not fall into misery if the winds on the market change, is currently the biggest resource Serbia has, and it is not sufficiently recognised. As we are now on a good path to start leading a reasonable policy, because it is based on these assumptions, it is hard to believe that it will not be recognised by the budget-filled ones. The basis for our optimism, and better to say realism, is in other areas. What some see as a flaw, which is that we will not fire people who create value, demand and full budget, without looking at alternatives, and especially without seeing the pestilence of such an approach, will prove to be a good policy. There is no basis for believing that the mechanical cutting of public sector transactions will result in something other than the deterioration of services in the sector for citizens, the fall of effective demand and the cost of firing and re-employment that is greater than savings. What makes sense is that in the existing mass of wages mechanisms are implemented that will stimulate high effects. Of course, that's what's gonna happen. Instead of taking a fiscal satire to treat the patient by making his condition worse, we suggest that the public sector take everything that is good and positive from private and add specificities to each of the institutions and public society organisations. Instead of firing 1,000 people, we advocate that these people are used more efficiently, that those who do not see their place in the public administration through the prism of satisfaction of citizens, through this public sector finance, send a message that they are also making money in the public sector and that opportunities for abuses are minimised. This pawning is not fashion, nor is it novelty, because for these principles we stand for for many years. The budget has a significantly modified subsidy policy. Although some recipients need to keep their lives alive, it seems to me that acquired rights have become an obstacle to seeking money on the market and that reducing subsidies is a good way to move things in the right direction. This majority has a clear vision that assistance to such systems must be based on the principles on which some of the companies that have already been seen as the subject of bankruptcy, and none of them have been raised through linear subsidisation. Of course, there will be more consideration of the effects here, because it is clear that not all subsidies are equally effective and that some are unequivocally useful, such as subsidising interest, while some are very problematic. This area is very important and does not belong to solid acquired rights, which are difficult to change. There are good reasons for that, which I was already talking about. Finally, if we summed up this budget in a few sentences, it is one of those rares that have been deprived of unreal plans, of non-domestic spending, of inerts and of excessively unhealthy compromises. This budget is a start that is not pompous, but that will represent a true turning point in the way fiscal policy is run. The Socialist Party of Serbia will strongly support the reality, constructiveness and insight of fiscal policy through its effects both in the long and short term, without succumbing to the daily tabloid fashion on responsible state issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5158	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5159	Mr. President, perhaps you weren't at the session to share our enthusiasm that we have not only an extraordinary budget, but also the personnel who prepared it, which are far above some international experts. Special commendations were given to the Fiscal Council and other financial experts, whom the IMF would have to be ashamed of. I was very happy about this state of our science financially, and then I read in "Blic" a statement by the President of the Fiscal Council, which says that the budget is unrealistic and that there will be no 3.6, because neither will the deficit be 4.2. So, all of a sudden, we have the deficits exactly of those who are far above the other financial experts. Now we need to see who's right, if it's the fiscal council, Minister. That's not what we're talking about. What I'm trying to say here is this, let's not make too many mystifications about the budget. Budget, there's people's money. People pay taxes. You're increasing VAT, and you're increasing revenues, and then let's see how they distribute. The way they're distributed, it's about real politics, whether it's developmental or social or whatever it is in that country. That is why I will speak from the point of view of a social democratic position and try to show that this budget is not in the sense of social responsibility, which is necessary for our country. We had a chance to hear that we were in front of an ambience, in front of bankruptcy. It was a disaster. Once we were already in the sea, and then the magician found a way to save the country, so little we owed ourselves around, and so now we're not only saved, but we got even one bright and very bright perspective. Whoever wants to believe it can believe it. However, an ordinary citizen believes that the government should take care of his standard of living, and then measure how much his salary and income is and what he can buy at the market to pay the bills, then sees that this thing does not go in favor of him, but that his standard is falling. That's exactly what affects these poorest people. We'd say progress, but there's an increase in the number of unemployed, so that picture should worry us from that point of view. If we have to decide here about the distribution of money then make sure it's as fair and accurate as possible, without any mystifications. Of course, we're a poor country. Besides, we don't use our resources. Our society is characterized by many signs of huge backlogs. I wonder how we think we can get out of the backdrop of poverty and poverty if we keep the current level of illiteracy, ignorance, low investment in science and complete neglect of culture? What's society gonna look like? It won't be like that. No matter how many people think they're in the woods, the ores, etc., our resources are still in people. When Napoleon wanted to advance France, he introduced compulsory education and the right to be most talented in the most important schools and to be scholarshipd. So it takes a lot more social responsibility if we want this society to move forward. These various tricks we're gonna borrow from here, so we're gonna print paper of value, so we're gonna sell it on the market, like we're selling cabbage heads, so here we go, we get free money. It's all the debt that burdens future generations with huge interest. We've managed to put ourselves in so much debt over the last few years, and we've had our mouths full that now they're going to push every possible country to invest here. The advantage of investing here is, unfortunately, still a cheap workforce, not a qualified one, and not how to usually give us a compliment, so like – you are a qualified workforce. I can't understand anyone saying - if any community wants to have a school with five students, then let them support it, it's none of our business. It's our business, because we put in the Constitution that schooling is mandatory, we even put it free, and now we say – we don't care. Fire teachers, and let them describe this part of the illiterate people. If there's someone extra who needs to educate other people, then it's dangerous for society. In the budget schedule is total social irresponsibility and one abracabra to agree, but from the point of view of the interests of the widest layers of society is unsatisfactory. Mr. President, since you probably didn't watch Twitter, let me assure you that you had the wrong impression. That day 17 DS speakers were reported who are here today's turn. What was meant to be created as an impression is that this was not of interest to the MPs of the DS. The fact that ministers will disqualify MPs in this way is something that was scrupulous. That was the reason the session was interrupted. I urge that these things don't happen, that we try seriously to analyze our society, his problems and look for ways. Let's not forget, the state isn't just an economic community, so all it has to do is settle some economic accounts. It is a political community, and the political community means the equality of all people. So, this social component is important, but not only about charity, we're going to give help, so many dinars for the New Year or for another pension, it's a structural issue – are we going to raise education, raise science, raise culture, or are we going to try to translate from one digit to another, proving and misleading that this is some kind of progress? DS MPs will speak in principle today's debate, but also when it comes to the debate in particular, we will bring very concrete and thorough remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5160	Before I give my word to the next speaker, I just want to let you know that for the sake of marking the International Day against Violence against Women, the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality is organising the first public hearing on the subject of "Fighting Violence in the Family". Public listening is held in the small hall of the House of the National Assembly starting at 11.00 p.m. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5161	I thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, each budget has two sides - the revenue and expenditure side. However, this draft budget for 2013, and in this I would fully agree with my colleague Veroljub Arsic, there is also a third party, unfortunately the burdensome side, and that side is called – the founding state. For the irresponsible policy of the growing budget deficit, there may be an excuse, as the global economic crisis has spread over to Serbia, and the previous government of the Republic of Serbia has not had adequate answers, it has had no answers for the global economic crisis. But there is no justification for the policy of the arrogant and uncontrollable spending of budgets, the resources of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's not enough to go public and say – Serbian citizens, I'm sorry. It is not enough to say that a political price has been paid in the May 6th and 20th elections, it is not enough. For such a policy, such values must be met. That is why, and we heard it in Friday's debate, that the IMF is not present in Serbia, that the IMF came only with the formation of a new government of the Republic of Serbia, that it was forced literally out of Serbia to put the 2012 budget into office of an election campaign only by one political party. The situation found, this third side of the budget, also has its exact description and it is seen through a catastrophic rate of 26% unemployment, through an escalation of public debt that was 30% in 2007, is 60%. I know a previous speaker would like to forget all this. It can't be forgotten. Through a deficit of 6.8% of GDP, through general liquidity, through the growth of interest expenditure that in 2010 was at the level of 30 billion dinars, in 2011 42 billion dinars, and the cost of interest in 2012 increased to incredible 64 billion dinars. Due to such a schizophrenic borrowing of the previous government, the expenditure of the interest budget, as the most irregular cost of the 2013 budget, will be at a level of 90 billion dinars. With such weights around your legs, it's hard to run. With such weights around your legs you don't beat Jussein Bolt. However, I am grateful to the government of the Republic of Serbia for the proposed 2013 budget, which makes it easier to run faster in the future, to win in the future. These are the inherited challenges the government of the Republic of Serbia faced courageously. The government proposed and adopted this assembly in September and rebalancing, but also a series of measures in the field of fiscal policy. These measures have also yielded concrete results in the past few months. Tax revenues are higher by six billion dinars, and expenditures have been cut by 2.3 billion dinars at the salary position, 4.7 billion dinars at the position of goods and services and 1.5 billion dinars on interest, as the government of the Republic of Serbia has shot down interest rates from 7.25% to 4.85% with the policy of the responsible and good host. I believe, Mr. Dinkich, that this tends to continue to decrease. In this way, the deficit for 2012 has been reduced to 5.6 and has been consolidated to 6.1% of GDP. These are the reasons why I share your optimism, Mr Dinkic, which is why I share the optimism of the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, but what is most important, and optimism that is slowly but surely returning to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I've followed closely today's presentations and Friday's exhibits. I have carefully followed both written and electronic media since the entry of the 2013 Budget Proposal into the assembly procedure, and I have seen that, if not the only one, the blame was this optimism and ambition. I think he is realistic, realistic and based on concrete fiscal policy measures. After all, there are no people who are optimistic, who believe and project a better future, probably that as a civilization, they would still live in caves and draw those pictures as in Lepensky Source. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to point out that the draft budget law for 2013 entered the assembly procedure on time and that it was the first time in six years that the budget calendar was respected. I can't commend that because it's only law-abiding. It must only be a lesson to those who have projected budgets in the previous six years when we have adopted them by 12, 30 or 31 December, with a high risk of entering temporary funding. The budget for 2013 follows a package of measures that reduce expenditure and increase revenues, which will give us hope for a more relaxed and more promising 2014 budget deficit in 2013. Real expenditure growth is 4.5%. Excuse me, real income growth is 4.5%, while the spending side has a 5.3% growth, however, the inflation rate has made expenditures less real. The characteristics of the expenditure side of the budget are significantly higher investments in agriculture. The agricultural allocations will be 4.5% of the budget in 2013, under which 120 liters per hectare has been regressed, much more than the tradition so far and from the current allocations for agriculture. All of this is extremely important, if it is known that we are coming out of the year of extreme weather opportunities, or extreme droughts. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Agriculture, as its component, behave responsibly, do not act as in the previous period, as a fireman – only when agricultural producers block half of Serbia, or when tractors come near Belgrade, and then some measures are adopted. No, this time, at the beginning of the year, it is said – 3.5% of the budget, so that agricultural producers can plan this year as high as possible. There has been an increase in social protection allocations of 8 billion dinars, and this is a significant growth compared to previous years, which points to a fundamental, not only of declarative concern for the socially endangered categories of our society, but unfortunately, a sign that the growing number of social protection users in the Republic of Serbia is increasing. Larger transfers to local self-government by 2.3 billion dinars. It's a significant incentive if most local self-government is known to be, unfortunately, in a very difficult state. If we add three billion dinars to that, as defined by the Republic of Serbia's budget to maintain six thousand kilometers of overtegrated roads from regionals in local, municipalities and cities, it may not be desired, but one important incentive. I also welcome the announcement of the creation of a central register of government employees at all levels, from the local community, local self-government, municipalities, cities, public enterprises, ministries, health care, education, this is a good initiative for two reasons. First, because of the change in the system and better planning of wage expenditure, because how can pay expenses be planned if we do not know what is the exact number of employees with the structure and with the human resources, with the structure of the professional arrangement, but also because of the abuse of severances which, unfortunately, were, so people took severances. Under the political cloak, they were taking severances at different levels and hiring elsewhere. Someone who takes severance and leaves the state administration, once and for all, shuts the door behind him. Many fellow MPs were called to the Fiscal Council. I believe the Fiscal Council has people who are extremely professional and extremely well-intentioned. What I've noticed as a threat to the Fiscal Council is a discrepancy on the spending side, so this budget will have greater allocations for goods and services and, say, interest. I can't take that as a fact, and I can't believe it all, because in these few months, from September to November, with fiscal policy measures and budget rebalances for 2012, as I said, savings from 2.3 billion dinars in the position of pay, 4.7 for goods and services, and a billion and a half at the rate of interest were made. All this gives me a boost, giving me motive to believe that this Government of the Republic of Serbia, what it has projected with the 2013 budget, will honor. If she did, a few months to drop by that amount, and interest and goods and services, why can't she succeed in the next year in what she designed herself? Also, what were the objections to the Fiscal Council and disagreements, they're late. Serbia, unfortunately, has large debts, especially in healthcare – 26 billion dinars. However, not only do we understand these delays and this problem, but the Serbian government has made an adequate response and agreement, which is that, 13 billion dinars, as much as hospitals and clinical centres owe, the government is taking over, the state is taking on these debts. Hospitals remain cleared of debt, and these 13 billion dinars, the truth without discount, but with the interest written off, are paid in the next three years. The remaining 13 billion dinars, due to the Health Insurance Fund, with a delay at this time of 200 days, are reduced to 150 days in the following year, in 2014 to 120 days and from 2015 to 90 days. What's good and what's a good suggestion from the Fiscal Council, which I think the government has also accepted and the Ministry of Finance, is to set quarterly spending targets. The cost needs to be monitored more often, faster, for these expenditures to be transparent, visible, so that they can react on time. In the end, 2013 will not be easy. We have a year ahead of us full of challenges, but also new opportunities and opportunities. I believe that the next year of getting the start of the date, the start of negotiations with the EU and one step forward, is a faster step on the road to the EU. I am sorry that we all don't share these values, but also the year in which citizens, by the quality of their lives, will feel better, the year when the system institutions will show all their strength and work in full capacity, the year when we will apply the new Public Procurement Act, the budget will get a new incentive, investors much better conditions for investment and work, and for citizens, definitely 2013 will make Serbia a better place to live. Of course, the SNS will support and vote for this budget in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5162	Thank you. National MP Dejan Nikolic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5163	Thank you. I am advocating Rules of Procedure and Articles 106 and 107. You have a duty to warn the speaker when he's making such a lie. I don't know exactly what Mr. Babic is thanking the government and Mr. Dinkic for? Maybe unemployment or an unemployment solution. How many jobs are there in six months? None. Perhaps he thanks for the reduced deficit, which will halve citizens' standards and increase public debt, or thanks for borrowing. You criticized your debt, and in three months you're in debt to two billion, with rates that are more than we've ever been in debt, because in the third day of your government's credit rating has been reduced. You don't have answers to questions that bother ordinary citizens, and that's why you create fogging, because you're doing well in the fog. You have no answers to questions that plague ordinary citizens. That is why they are so polluted in the congregation, and it is your duty to warn the messengers who speak so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5164	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, since it's your view that Mr. Babic was telling a lie. Everyone has the right of all of us to speak and express political will in the way he wants. Mr. Babice, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5165	First, I would like to congratulate my colleague, Dejan Nikolic, on the election of vice president of the DS. However, here you can see immediately one dysharmonic, an instant detachment. Last night we had a chance to hear from the new president of the DS that the DS was going to come out and apologize for everything they didn't do, for all the bad things they did. Now suddenly we hear from the vice president something else. Please coordinate your policy – whether you will apologize for everything you have done in the previous period or not. Besides, you've had 12 years to do it, you've created politics and the future of Serbia over the past 12 years, you've been looking for solutions in three months. Wait and see. What's important is we didn't promise 200,000 jobs, and the other 450,000 people were out of work. We didn't leave anyone without a job. It's a new value, unlike those values and those things you did, which is that you left people out of work. In Serbia, no one has lost a job in the past few months.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5166	Thank you. Mr. Nikolic, on what grounds? - Replica. You have no right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5167	It's nice that SNS MPs get papers before this assembly, from the cabinet of government. What they got from marketing services to say 50 times in the congregation to make it look like the truth, but that's their policy. It is true that the economic crisis has reduced the number of jobs, but who was in charge of job creation? Your coalition partner-- the man who sits here today in the O.R., the man you've assigned to deal with employment issues. Who's the minister who got fired in the government? The one in charge of the jobs. You ordered him to hire you. Is there a job opening? Yes, it is. In municipalities where he's so-called. the transfer of power to party listeners of those parties that have been recommited by those authorities. So many jobs have been opened, and it seems to me that Serbia has come out of the crisis as many jobs are in circulation when we listen and watch how authorities are being transferred to the locals. I don't know what the answer to your question is. I asked the question - how many jobs in six months? What's the standard? How's Serbia's credit rating? In just six months, Serbia's standard has been halved, and you're in charge of two billion. You invested in the public sector and raised public debt. You have no answers to those questions, Mr. Granny, and everything else is making fog because in the fog you're doing the best you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5168	I ask the Members of Parliament to return to the agenda. Miss Jerkov, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5169	Madam Chairman, I'm advertising article 107. You were obliged to react when Mr. Babic said in his presentation that the previous government had been schizophrenically in debt. A good part of what the SNS today is doing to the government was in that previous government that was schizophrenically in charge. All that borrowing went through this assembly. The National Assembly made a decision on this, and this means that according to the previous speaker, the decision of the National Assembly was schizophrenic. If that's really his belief, then let's think about who he's sitting with in the coalition, since it won't be that only one of the previous government was not good, and everyone else was good, and it won't be that only one of them was running such a policy, and everyone else opposed it, because as much as they opposed it, then they kept it in themselves so well that it couldn't be suspected at any time. Given that the decisions of the National Assembly are at stake, and that you are vice president of the National Assembly, in the end, you are elected from the list of parties that supported the previous government until the last moment, you should react at times when for any reason a person calls the National Assembly schizophrenics, because someone may agree or disagree with them, to comment on them in whatever way he wants to comment on them, but that is not a dictionary that should be used on the decisions made by this Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5170	Thank you. I've already explained Article 107's injury, since you've advertised the same member as the previous speaker. Mr. Granny, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5171	I'm really not going to answer again, because I want to introduce this session into a normal course and discuss the budget. I'll try to talk back to my respected colleagues in these minutes or two. First, if all of this wasn't true what I said and what the SNS claims, you wouldn't have lost in the election. This is true because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know it best and have made the best decision in the May 26th and 20th elections. As a young man, I would just send a message to you not to tear down bridges behind you, and just because you've been working with someone doesn't mean that sometimes in the future you won't cooperate, but if you tear down bridges behind you, there's no going back. As for the credit rating that was allegedly destroyed with this RS government, it is shown in a way that your government, Mr. Nikolic, was in charge, and Mr. Cvetkovic will confirm at 7.25%, and now these interest rates are 4.85%. This shows the trust of the international community and international financial institutions and how they view RS. As for other replicas and schizophrenic borrowings, I'll repeat one more time - schizophrenic borrowing is that borrowing when... (President: Mr. Granny, let's just take care of how we express ourselves. )......................................................................................................... Such borrowing is always when credit is raised, when all citizens of the Republic are in debt with huge financial resources, and no new value is obtained. Did we get the roads, did we get the corridors? What did we get for so much debt? Of course, the most responsible is always the largest party in the coalition, such as, and in this RS government and we are not running away from it, the most responsible is the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5172	Mrs. Judita Popovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5173	Madam Chairman, I would like to remind the Members of the People's Parliament, as well as you, that today the Budget Law for 2013 is on the agenda, and that is why I am reporting under Article 27, since we should really discuss this most important law, because there is currently nothing more important for this country than to see what the economic policy that will be implemented in 2013, and most citizens and citizens of this country are interested. You should not allow anyone to put political and all other responsibility for the situation currently in which the Serbian economy and economy are currently in place, either by means of a replication or by means of ad act. We know very well who was in the government in 1999, who managed this country, who then talked so much about patriotism, where patriotism put above anything and beyond the economy, the development of the economy, over the lives of citizens and citizens of Serbia. Today, when some others have been in power since 2001, I think it would be good to look back on their political history and their responsibilities, because it seems to me that they haven't been responsible for everything they've produced with their wrong decisions and wrong policies. Therefore, it would be best to at least deal with what happened during the past period of time during the authorities of some others. Why don't you deal with what you've been doing and what you're going to do, because what... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... something does not indicate some great prosperity that awaits this Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5174	I thank Mrs Popovic for your suggestion. We're going back to the session agenda. I interrupt all replicas and continue on the established agenda. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Excuse me, sir. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5175	The assembly is a political institution. (President: Mr. Nikolic, I remind you of your obligation to say which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. )......................................................................................................... Addressing the other MP, Article 109.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5176	Article 109 is not an address to another MP. Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. He's not here right now. The word has a national emissary Jelena Travan-Miljević. (National MP Balša Bozovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Bozovic, I gave my word to Mrs. Miljevic and please wait for her to finish. She's got the word already.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5177	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, will begin my presentation with one fact and commendation that the agricultural budget is 4.5% of the total budget compared to that of the 2011 budget, which was 2.6%. I will allow myself to create a parallel between the 2012 budget and the 2013 budget concerning agriculture, agricultural works. In view of the fact that the largest number of subsidies is paid through the Agrarian Payments Authority, I would point out that the amount foreseen in the 2012 budget was 17 billion. This year it's 26 billion. So nine billion more. I would also take the opportunity to point out that this government is and that this budget is made up of real foundations and grants only for 2013. So, there were no claims, as was the case with the 2012 budget when they took over the debts towards farmers from 2011. It was also said that the budget this year and last year was 49 billion. I think someone forgot about the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture then included the Ministry of Trade. I think someone forgot about the fact that the 2011 agricultural debt was taken over. In addition to the above, I would like to commend the introduction of investment investment support, which is to give 30-40% of the grants for everything invested in investments. Also, it is good to stress that the subsidy per hectare remains. Also, subsidisation in livestock and continuing subsidisation for organic production. Besides that, one segment I've been paying attention to is local self-government. I would like to commend the ministry's decision to identify the funds by local self-governments belonging to them under the Law on the financing of local self-government. This commendation, to my personal satisfaction, is shared by a permanent conference of cities and municipalities that welcomed the new practice of the Ministry of Finance and Business to discuss the most important issues of local finance with local self-government representatives. In addition, taking into account that this budget provides for means to maintain roads, which have been transferred from regional to local and winter maintenance, I think it is clear that this government wants to continue the trend of decentralisation and giving great opportunities to local self-government. I would point out that there are models that put order into spending funds. In addition, I would stress that the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government adopts programmes that support the most underdeveloped municipalities to improve local infrastructure, but also that they do not reduce the possibility of those municipalities from the first, second and third categories to develop their infrastructure, as well as the infrastructure projects programme, as well as investment support, i.e. Infrastructure and municipal equipment of work zones and business incubator projects. When we look at these two segments and what continues the National Employment Service through the funding of local employment action plans and the type of decentralisation in employment are specificities and each local self-government has its specificities and provides opportunities to act specifically where it thinks it is most needed. There is no reason not to provide support and there is no reason not to point out the consistency of the URS when I talk about raising budgets in agrarian policy. We said we'd double the agricultural budget in this term. I think we're on our way to do that. If we see that 85% of the territory is rural, and only 44% of the population settles it, I think these measures, which I put out, give enough reason to fight to keep the population in rural areas. It is my personal and political pleasure to support the work of this government in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5178	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5179	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107. As chairman, you have endangered the dignity of this congregation. You cannot act this way and take someone, give them your word, that you decide when someone has the right to reply, when they are not, when they are injured, and when they are not injured by the Rules of Procedure, without allowing the MP to report for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Dejan Nikolic responded under Article 109. It is not true that you know the Rules of Procedure about the work of the National Assembly, because you did not give a warning to a MP who is directly addressing another MP, which is a member of the 109th Rules of Procedure. You just said it wasn't a member of 109. I don't want to question the dignity of the National Assembly every time you're the chairman of this House. Here we hear the attitudes of those people who brought a prison suit to the Serbian Parliament for the same young man, and now with great zeal for this budget and that draft budget Mr Mladjan Dinkic proposed. Really, I don't want to talk about other things. I'd like to talk about the budget, and it's your duty, as chairman, to warn anyone who's turning off the subject or telling other things that have nothing to do with today's topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5180	Thank you. I don't think I hurt Article 107 because you called after I gave my word to Mrs. Miljevic. As for Rule 109, you're contesting that I said no member of the Rules of Procedure was affected. Article 109 speaks of a warning. Just a reminder. I don't say the warning right away, but after two warnings. Mr. Arsic, on what grounds are you answering? Because of the parliamentary group? [[Veroljub Arsic, from town: Right to replica.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when there is a debate on the confidence of the finance minister, I am ready to talk about Mladjan Dinkic, but here is now the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, if we talked like that, I could tell you that he was the governor when you were in power, you were in a coalition with him once, and twice. Now I don't understand why you're not doing well. Also, if we keep going back in time and even in the 1990s, I want to ask a question – who lives in the past, who lives in the present, and who wants to look to the future? This budget, as it is, with a much smaller deficit, and nominally and percentageally, than the budget proposed by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, who would then be the finance minister, gives us the right to look into the future. If we had continued as you started, I don't think there'd be anything left of this country in a few years. You know that well. As for the country's credit rating, we didn't take him down. You shot him down. When government records of 700m euros are broadcast for the liquidity of the 2012 budget, so spend those funds in 2011, then we question how you ran public finances in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5182	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Are you speaking after the injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5183	Yes, on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. I was simply forced, after these huge replicas and injuries to the Rules of Procedure, to answer. Madam Chairman, you have the right, discreetly, to decide whether or not you will allow a replica. It is the right of the president, that is, the chairman. This isn't why we're gathered here today to listen to each other's accusations. We're here to discuss the budget. It is very important that we take this debate seriously, because it is important to clarify whether something is going to change about economic policy or if everything remains the same, or whether it will continue in some continuity, as regards the development of this country. If this continues, it means that there is no development. If we see that there are some opportunities to change the state's attitude towards the economy, the state's attitude towards its responsibility to citizens, you know how, the 2013 budget law will respond to that. Therefore, we really do not care who is when and why he was guilty or responsible in the previous period, it is important to know that there are huge problems in this country and in this society. Let's concentrate on having a serious discussion, with a serious argument, and you as chairman to channel these political agreements, talks and discussions, that this looks like a serious budget debate. There is currently no more serious, necessary law for this country than this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5184	Thank you, Mrs. Popovic. I completely agree with you. The word is Mr. Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5185	I checked in half an hour ago, according to article 107. Mr. Babic spoke to another MP. (President: we've already finished this. Yes, but I answered half an hour ago and you didn't give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5186	Thank you. The word is Mr Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dinkic, you have announced as an old minister in the new government a new economic policy of the government. You see, we've got a new Agrobank, in a few days we'll get a new budget, then a new Iron, a new JAT, a new year, and who knows what's new, but today we need to see what the new ad hoc measures of the newest government look like. We at the DSS have not ignored the economic crisis and all indicators speak of the real economic Sunflower compared to 2008, and what we hear is the fault of the old government that you have nothing to do with. The proposal for this budget is unrealistic, the government forecasts are unrealistic because they are based on arbitrary and completely unfounded projection of basic macroeconomic indicators, so in our view it's a matter of time, it's probably going to be the second half of 2013, when we're going to adopt a budget rebalance here with a significantly greater deficit than it was proposed in this budget. We did a serious analysis of economic developments and developments in 2011 and 2012. We have concluded that the expected growth in 2013, which you were talking about, can only happen if Mr. God makes this year extremely pregnant to improve the situation. Public debt has doubled since 2008, compared to participation in GDP to 60%, but the previous government with which you have nothing is guilty. Only with malpractice optimism can we expect to reach the 45% limit by 2020, as predicted by the law. It is not acceptable for us, it is not clear and we believe that it is not real - on what basis is the projected exit from recession and an increase in GDP of 2%? On paper it all sounds nice, you could write that it's going to be 4 or 6%. You wrote that inflation, or you estimated that inflation would be 5.5%, and it is realistic that it will be two digits in the following year. Everything you said sounds great, but it just can't happen. The revenues are too optimistic. It's possible that it's happening because of extremely high inflation. I don't know what you've been doing with inflation, whether it's 10%, but all the estimates say by the end of the year it'll be 12%. The growth in income tax revenues in a situation where we have a decrease in employment, when we have a fall in real profits, is simply unrealized and will not be realised. The revenues in this budget have been artificially increased to cover up the real budget deficit. You also announced that you would run a restrictive monetary policy, all to maintain the illusion that profits and wages will not fall, but inflation will, I'm sure, do its part. I thought in this exhibit I'd look back on the IMF's opinion, but we heard from you the other day that they're unprofessional, that they just have no idea what they're talking about, so we won't pay attention to that. You plan an extremely strong deficit reduction from 6.7% to 3.6%. This is really necessary to stop the uncontrollable growth of public debt, but we are sure that it will be significantly greater than 3.6% and will draw close to 5%. The budget deficit is seriously underrated, especially because revenues are artificially high. What we haven't seen, and we haven't heard from you either, is what is the hidden deficit, or what are the commitments that have not been paid at the central level, the debt of public enterprises and local self-government? If you break the planned deficit with this budget, and I say that will happen, you will certainly provide additional funds with some new borrowing. You predict a 2% growth rate, for 2014 that is 3.5%, and then eight years by 4%. We all know that growth depends primarily on attracting foreign investment and realising large infrastructure projects, but all the major infrastructure projects planned for next year should be realised from borrowing. The interest this country is due to pay next year is greater than the budget for Serbia's defence and agriculture for next year. You and the new government continue the continuity and politics of the old government when it comes to wages and pensions, because you predict their freezing. We haven't heard here any of those famous 3Ps, that pensions follow wages, since inflation is going to be much higher and that they're actually going to be much lower than they are today. The tax system, as it is made, is not stimulating, but is designed to only increase budget revenues, but only on paper. This cannot be planned because we believe that the tax increase does not automatically mean an increase in income, it all depends on the privatisations that will take place in the coming year and on the incomes that will come together on these grounds. I don't think some new Maxie is going to sell out to get the tax out of it in the Republic of Serbia's budget. What we need, certainly, is that the problems of the economy can be solved by one serious one, as you said, a radical turn, primarily by changing government policy and turning towards some countries that really want to invest in this country without any political conditions. A comprehensive reform of the public sector, reform of the state administration, public enterprises, health, education and pension systems is necessary. Only then will the Republic of Serbia's budget have a development component, as it is neither social nor developmental. We see it as a Swedish table with whom they will take who as they arrive and as they will in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5188	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5189	First, let me just say that incomes are conservatively assessed and that our expectations are that they will be greater than what we put on, not less. Why did we make a conservative assessment of the proceeds? It's already shown in the rebalancing process. In rebalancing, we estimated revenue at the end of the year will be greater than we expected, but only in the last quarter. On this basis, we increased the projection of the 2013 revenue, but reduced the so-called maltene by the same amount. non-tax revenues, because the profit of some public enterprises, which was expected, is much less than it was in the previous period, primarily Telekom, so we need to look into what happened to Telekom's business this year, when it made so much less profit compared to 2011. To avoid confusion, it's about Telekom being run by people before this new government was formed, because we're talking about results for the first three quarters of this year. What's very important is that the Fiscal Council also believes that our projection of income is real. On the other hand, they have a reserve when it comes to spending. There's a difference they're talking about between 0.6% and 0.7% of GDP. However, in all options, the deficit, which this year without a fiscal consolidation programme was about 7% of GDP, goes to below 4% of the PDB. We're confident it'll be 3.6%. So we can discuss some theoretical differences, whether there's going to be zero coma something more or less than what the government was planning, but that's drastically less than what we found. It's a consolidation that will be over 2.5% of GDP one year. Who doesn't believe it's possible to accomplish it, let him look into history. When we talk about my personal responsibility for the management of public finances, I stand entirely behind the public finance policy I ran from 2004 to 2006. In 2003, I found a 4% of GDP deficit and left the state budget with a 2% surplus for the first time in Serbia's history and the only time. For the first time in Serbia's history, a budget surplus was reached in 2006, which does not include revenues from privatisation, from the sale of Mobtel and the third license. Without it, there was a surplus of 2% and two billion more euros in additional revenues, and when we returned half a billion in debt to the World Bank prematurely, we reduced public debt to below 30% of GDP. Since then, I haven't been responsible for Serbia's public finances one day because I've been doing a job that has nothing to do with the job. It was my responsibility as minister of education or culture for the state of public finances. From now on, ever since the new government was formed, I have full responsibility. As you can see, I'm no longer criticizing that period, I was criticizing it while we were having budget rebalances, I'm only talking about the future. Why would I criticise the past period and mistrust of political nature when global financial markets give confidence to the new government? If the global financial market is worth the same bond much better today than it was worth a year ago when we had a formally better credit rating, what do I have to answer to any critic from the country? When those who know best where to invest money, they invest in Serbian bonds, and we managed to double-produce in a few months, with interest rates, for which all the financial experts in the world really give us credit for how we managed to do it. This morning we had a meeting with the European Investment Bank and they asked the question again -- who bought it, how did you do it? Guys, they still don't believe it. We'll go below 5% next year. What firm in Serbia today can easily be owed below 5% a year? It's not that easy. So I know that the state has stronger power and that the interest should be lower. I'm not satisfied either, even at this rate of 5.25%, and not even with the 4.8% at which our five-year bonds are traded, because we're going to be a strong state when we can borrow our own debt on the market at a maximum of 3.5%. Then we can say that we have reached some standards. That's what we'll do during this government's term, which I'm convinced of. Next year we're going to be under 5% and then we're going to be down, because we're planning to continue to lower the budget deficit. So, if fiscal consolidation of as much as 6% of GDP was made between 2004 and 2006, I ask the question – and why not now? At that time there was political support for fiscal consolidation, it is now even bigger, because the ruling coalition has indeed come across one condition from which it is likely that worse can be difficult and with no knowledge of those who run economic policy. So it can't be worse than what we found in 2012. Of course, our goal is to radically improve the situation. When I say that growth is going to be 2%, I'm not happy with that growth at all, it's low. Serbia needs a much higher growth rate. It was designed 2%, given that the decline in this year is as low as 2%, so the starting base is low. That's what I'm talking about. I don't deceive anyone. So I'm openly saying that next year's 2% growth is no special achievement, and that's why I'm surprised by what others are criticizing, because we need more than 2%. The Central Bank designed this inflation we took over. The National Bank of Serbia has also projected that growth will also be 2.5%, therefore, slightly higher than what the finance ministry estimates. Let me finish with the income. Why do I think the revenues are conservatively assessed? Not only because they are better achieved in the last quarter, but because we expected the law we hope to start the discussion this afternoon, which is a law on the conditional write-off of tax-restricted interest, provided that current obligations are regularly met, to increase the current taxes in the next period. We will strongly motivate all businessmen from craftsmen to major businessmen to regularly settle current obligations, because in this case they will be given a complete tightening interest from the previous period. It will be given the opportunity to postpone the main tax debt for small enterprises of two years, i.e. for a large year, and to pay further two years for the wars if they pay the current commitments in time. Such motivation will contribute to better budgeting than in some situation, when a company pays taxes, it goes on paying off an old debt that could not pay in an earlier period. This way the old debt will be frozen, frozen interest and a great motivation to pay current incomes, which in our opinion will significantly increase this tax revenue estimate in the following year in which we did not include this effect because we do not know what it will be like. We'll try to make it bigger, we don't know what it'll be, so we were conservative. I have to say that for the first time, some of my associates have criticised me for being too pessimistic about budget revenue projections, because it's the opposite of having finance ministers overestimating actual revenues so they can have higher expenditures. In fact, here is the largest reserve of the expert public, not on the revenue side anymore, but on the dispensary, i.e. whether the Government will be able to control the relatively low execution of material costs for goods and services. Will he be able to secure payment within 45 days of the state? Will we be able to prevent so far the behaviour of the state authorities from paying much more than they have in their budget and making delays? And make a lot more arrangements than they have in the budget, and then they don't pay? That's the problem we had, and that problem is called financial indiscipline. Financial indiscipline in the previous period prompted the fact that Serbia has never had a strong finance minister here since 2006. It's real like that. Why? I'm not talking about a person, I'm talking about an institution. She didn't have a finance minister who had all the instruments to implement economic policy, not politics in a political sense. There was a mix of politics in the work of the finance minister by calling on the phone - except for this, don't charge him taxes, and attack this one, because this one's not like him in that town. Local directors of tax administrations were stronger than the finance minister sometimes. The finance minister had to consult with people outside the government about the economic policy move. You know why this budget is on time? Because we didn't have to go to a political consultation on whether to project, say, 2% growth, or growth is 1.5% or 2.5%. We didn't go outside the government to consult, we ended up in the government. We haven't wasted any time consulting people who aren't at all professional people for that. Spreading maps of Corridors, talking to people who have no idea what it is to build roads and lose not hours, not days, but months in infertile discussions. There was no coordination, there was no trust, and that's why we had that budget. It's over, this is a new government, a whole new style of work, and that's why we're going to have and make a radical turn that happens next year's budget. I'm aware that the budget itself is not a guarantee that we're going to have a complete turn-off in full economic policy, but it is a base, along with these accompanying laws, to go into a whole new economic policy. Of course, I thank all those MPs from the ruling parties and the opposition who make constructive proposals in that direction. In this regard, any warnings on your part are well-intentioned, because I believe that parliament must be the main controller of the work of both the Government and the Ministry of Finance. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5190	Miroslav Petkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5191	Thank you, Mr. Dinkich. I truly greatly appreciate your efforts and your energy and you'll let me tell you why I'm worried this isn't going to happen. Because the DSS is not in the government as it was in the period you were talking about between 2004 and 2006. Because I believe that after Vojislav Kostunica, the government did not have a strong prime minister and answer today whether you suffered pressure from Mr Kostunica when he was Prime Minister or from other ministers who were in that government? I had the pleasure of voting in favour of the budget as a member of the DSS when you suggested he be in the surplus. Our criticisms are extremely well-intentioned, and that's what you said. The future side as you've evaluated it, we'll see if it comes true. The spending will be safe, because everything you've predicted will be spent, and whether there will be less of those funds as the Fiscal Council predicts 25 billion dinars, that's what we'll see. We don't see any significant savings in this budget. We are extremely concerned that healthcare debts will be converted into public debt and we are sure that this will be achieved both at the level of public debt and at the deficit that will be in 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5192	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5193	Dear Presidency, honourable ministers, the draft budget was not adopted within the legal deadline and we did not have enough time and conditions to get acquainted with the draft budget. It was one of the first problems we have heard a few years back from the professional public, from the MPs, from all the members of the Finance Committee. I think it is quite correct that the first characteristic of this draft budget law for 2013 is that the deadline is respected according to the budget calendar, and above all, the law is respected. On the other hand, this was possible because the government of the Republic of Serbia has clear economic policy objectives, has a clear common political interest, everything is being resolved in the Serbian government, chaired by Prime Minister Ivica Dacic and targets set on a shorter and medium-term basis. Another feature that I want to highlight because it comes from this proposal is that the government has started to think on the mid-term and has clear stated objectives on the medium-term for the desire to balance the budget by 2016. There are no good solutions to the short term, require all large fiscal constraints, very radical which cannot be respected in one day or very short can be laid the basis and for setting up a good house takes a lot of time. The third feature I would point out is that this budget proposal is the first step towards stopping public debt, and later on, the public debt collapse. So, by stopping two system public debt generators, this is a budget deficit and issuing state guarantees. The idea of radically bringing down 50% of the budget deficit is really good, through changes in tax policy and significant adjustment at expenditures through savings, as this is possible and this speaks of one balanced fiscal consolidation, and on the other hand, with the idea that guarantees are exclusively issued for capital investments and not for liquid liquidity. The challenges facing this budget, in addition to these characteristics, are primarily for this kind of plan that needs to be achieved in the medium term, is that it is also necessary to provide broad support for each species in this budget and this economic policy, and of course it is fully realised. You should tell everyone, including the citizens, what's the alternative to this budget? The alternative is a certain public debt crisis in terms of interest costs growth and it would certainly affect the public sector and all functions and security, justice, education, health, social protection, the entire economy of our country. That's what we need to tell all citizens, and we need to be aware of that. The second thing that matters is that this government is estimating the need for the budget to have support, has been defined for a significant increase in the allocation for the socially-hazarded categories of population by eight billion dinars, and for me as a member of the SPS it is very important and the burden of this crisis should not be borne by the socio-hazarded, and Serbia itself is defined as the state of social justice in its constitution. This budget, on the other hand, in one good part, will provide its support in the sense that it is a first step and shows a trend in terms of changing the structure of public consumption and clearly defining Serbia's comparative advantages and investing in agriculture, infrastructure, energy, and we see that the allocations for agriculture will reach an average in more developed countries of 4.5% of the total budget. On the other hand, there was no point here, but I would like to say that in these conditions, there was also the possibility of concreteising Prime Minister Dacic's announced co-operation with Republika Srpska and providing certain funds for investments in computers and wagons, which clearly shows the government's commitment to co-operate with its countrymen in the environment. All of these measures are short and long-term deadlines defined to ensure a sustainable medium-term GDP growth rate and this is a real policy and the only way to ensure that the main unemployment problem is resolved over a certain period of time. This budget is also a good basis for negotiations and agreements with the IMF and other organisations and therefore, estimating both these reasons and challenges recognised by the government and adopted certain recommendations, the SPS shows clear support for this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5194	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5195	Dear Presidency, the situation is difficult enough today that the DS is not introducing a day-to-day policy into this very important debate. On Friday, however, the resolution minister told us that absolutely everything is bad in this country is exactly the legacy of DS, while this budget is a radical turnaround, a transformation, in some sense some Messianic reading, some sacred surveillance that will provide us with much better tomorrow. I wish that was true. Let's take a look at the details of whether or not that's the case. First, about us, we are not running away from our responsibility, and we have paid that price in the elections, and yesterday in the election assembly, we started this hard work of reorganizing and getting the trust of our citizens, but just because we bear the responsibility doesn't mean that those who shared responsibility with us in the previous government can completely forget it. I wonder who was in charge of the economy in the previous government and the one before? Well, you Mr. Dinkic and your party. It is therefore your responsibility that the unemployment rate has gone from 13% to 26%, to the record of Europe. In this budget, we have not seen any more serious programs that will deal with finding jobs for our citizens. How is it possible that these subsidies are still needed for losers? Who was in charge of that? You personally and the person you later appointed to your place, which, in your words, was the best you've ever had. Who allowed them to be late in the healthcare system, what were you talking about on Friday, to reach 26 billion dinars? Your ministers, Mr Dinkic, and Mr Tomica Milosavljevic and Mr Stankovic, because when you take responsibility for one resort, it is complete and cannot be shared. How is it possible that, as we hear, local finances are destabilized to the point where you threaten them with punishment, abolishing transfers if they are confirmed to invest in their own salaries, not capital investments. No one in this home has forgotten who was the initiator of those changes to the law on the financing of local self-government and why we have to change all this again today. How is it possible that regional differences are greater today than they were four years ago, and that was your key promise and your key responsibility in the previous government? So much for the past. I think it would be much better for all of us to look at what we've done and not transfer responsibility to others and take responsibility for the part that belongs to us, and therefore, given the effect, we can ask the question of what our perspective and credibility for the future is. First, it's not true that you agreed with the Fiscal Council. We have a president who was at a public service this weekend who said he still sees a problem with overestimated incomes from corporate profits for at least five billion dinars. As far as VAT is concerned, should it be celebrated that these revenues are higher, because we know that they are greater because of the inflation that has been projected and by 14% unfortunately, half the responsibility, 7% for the first term, be the previous government, and 7% for the second term this year, and this is this government and your new governor. In any case, what is important is that you failed to counter what the secretary of state announced and hoped to reach an agreement with the IMF. I think it is a weak comfort for the citizens of Serbia to know that they are not technically undersigned, a much more important signal that could be sent not only to the international capital market, but to those who would like to invest in our country, that it is safe to invest. The deal, contrary to the announcements, is obviously missing, we heard that it might be in January, February, and now it's all delayed for spring. We know how it goes. We know very well, unless the agreement is made on this budget, that the condition of the IMF for an agreement that you want to rebalance this budget, and the VAT is bigger just because taxes are bigger and inflation is bigger and therefore that transferred inflation is higher next year. Major revenues are the weak purchasing power of our citizens, a very weak comfort. It is good that this law is sent on time and there is generally consensus, even with those you have criticised from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and beyond, that economic growth will be about 2%. However, it is now clear that this consolidated deficit of 3.6% is not realistic. It's not real because of the revenue I've been talking about, but also because of the expenditure. These expenditures, when we look at subsidies, e.g. in the economy, it's a good thing you said it was first of all because it's less subsidies to "Fiat." As far as we know, investment-attraction subsidies are already allocated in previous programmes, so it would be interesting to know how much free resources are available in the budget for next year for bringing in new investments, and how much of the budget "Siepe" and other agencies are already allocated to the previous programmes that you have managed. For citizens, in any case, the most important thing is to tell the truth, which is that there is no magic here, but to reduce the deficit by freezing their wages and pensions. When we see that they increased by 2% in October, the illegally predicted 2% in April next year, and the budget assumption is that they will only increase by 0.5% in October this year. When you compare that with inflation, the one that is already reality and what you have planned in this budget, we see that you promise to the citizens of RS and pensioners, that even the purchasing power will drop by at least 11% for the first 18 months of the government's work. They're hard facts and it's true. If the dinar is depressed next year, so much more of that purchasing power will be eroded in the euro. So we are very far from the declared policy of the Prime Minister who is not there, as well as other ministers, I welcome the vice-president, the minister who joined us, to share responsibility for this budget. That's why it's not surprising that your coalition partners from the PUPS are looking for budget rebalances, so this program is for so-called. The Thirteenth Retirement, however, is found in the next budget. It's obvious there's no consent here. Either way, the DS will vote for the amendments to the PUPS regarding pregnant women, because that's our policy. The social, when we know that the core policy of this budget is to reduce the purchasing power of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia by at least 10%, it is something that is not very credible. But the biggest flaw we see in the DS in this budget is its absolute static. When we talk about losers, there's no money to restructure the budget for next year. The creation of strategies and papers with the World Bank is announced and citizens must know that because there is no agreement with the IMF, it will not be, and that is the World Bank's representative who said here in Belgrade weeks ago. There won't be any very favourable loans to the $400m budget, which are related to obtaining an agreement with the IMF. So, when it comes to education, economics, working relations, the security of money to finance these reforms, there will be no such reforms. The reform story was based only on JAT, "Srbigas" and perhaps "Galenika", and the other 170 enterprises in restructuring will be in the same regime next year. When we talk about the absence of these reforms, I have to tell you that unfortunately times change, there was some previous period when it might have been easier to make public finances, when the world was in an unsustainable but still expansion, and when it grew five to six percent a year, this is a long story. This is the world where the euro zone is in recession, where it is, for example, in Germany, the central economic power of our continent, and in it, unfortunately, every quarter of the collapse would be much better for all of our citizens to make a budget out of the medium-term projection of public finances on real bases, not on wishes, because I'm afraid they won't be realised. When you talk about guarantees, it's a good thing there's no guarantee for liquidity. By the way, your MPs and former ministers voted for all these guarantees both in the government and in the Assembly, but we're not going to talk about it now. It's a good thing they're gone, but it would be good and fair to say the other part of the story. Since our citizens, our economy doesn't pay the price of gas that Srbiagas has to pay to the Russian partner, it would be good if you don't already give liquidity guarantees, to tell the truth that the price of gas will have to be increased. When you say that JAT won't get liquidity guarantees, it would be good and fair to say how many people in JAT will lose their jobs. The reality is, as we speak, and I would now conclude, that many others, my colleagues from our parliamentary group, would have had enough time to discuss this budget. I want to end up dealing with what we heard this morning, which is either the result of ignorance or an attempt at deception, I must say. This is a question of success in the capital market. This is, and we from DS, this chart, whose source is J.P. Morgan, which holds the debt index of all the countries "emerging markets", i.e. In development, we're going to put this on your website, and everyone will be able to get through this chart in the original. What's reality? You say you pay cheaper on the capital market than the government. First, it would be fair to say the bonds you issued are part of, at least nine years' worth of programs contracted by the previous government. When we compare the bond for ten years with the bond for nine years, we compare the grandmothers and frogs, because there's a normal guilty person and every student in the first year of economic college knows that the interest on longer bonds is higher, because someone who invests longer and more of their money, so it's normal for the interest to be higher for ten years without saying that this bond you're talking about right now is not for nine years, but it's at five years. It would be a minimum of honesty in the discussion if we didn't mix grandmothers and frogs, and compare what's ten years -- with what's ten years, with what's nine years -- with what's nine years old. What's more important is what we see on this chart. We see on this chart that throughout 2011, the Republic of Serbia paid the same risk premium, i.e. the same interest as the neighbouring Hungary and Croatia. This is what has happened since you came to power, for Hungary and for Croatia and interest has fallen 2%, and for us four times less. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia's previous bond was in debt on interest lower than the interest paid by Croatia and Hungary. These bonds charge Serbia for interest which is much greater than what Croatia and Hungary pay for, and that is reality. If this is too complicated for anyone because of ignorance and perhaps of poor will to give what the Russian Finance Minister himself announced on Friday, here is the Russian Federation, the Republic of Serbia, the same lender, the same borrower, a year ago and something, a loan was secured at 12 years from two years of start, with an interest of 3.39%. You have just received one loan that will be withdrawn for five years and where interest is at such a shorter amount of 4.1%) interest, so it would be good at this difficult moment, not to talk about conversion, but to talk about real problems, because that is what all RS citizens expect of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5196	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5197	When a man looks at you, he'd say, "But this is a good story." Here is the question, if you mention knowledge or ignorance, these are categories that we can discuss – who knows and who doesn't. The issue of cheeks is also important in both the economy and politics. Did you maybe, just a few months ago, ask them to pay and get their pensions frozen? You were for freezing wages and pensions the moment you thought you were going to form a government, is that true? Of course it is. We failed to ensure that the economic crisis led to a dizzy growth of wages and pensions, but at least we provided some growth, 2% in October, 2% in April, and you wanted to completely freeze them, so that the growth was zero. So if you're criticizing what they pay and pensions are slowly growing, remember what you said this summer. You asked for a full freeze of wages and pensions or not to grow at all. I think you have the right to criticise what we're doing right now, but don't forget what you said a few months ago. Secondly, when you talk about the health funding system, I know that you know that many people don't know who's responsible for health funding. The Health Insurance Fund is responsible, not the Minister of Health, unfortunately. That should change. When you say it's the same thing, I agree, it should be the same, but it wasn't the same. See who was and who is now the Director of the Health Insurance Fund – a member of your party. The person who was left behind was 2-3 billion dinars, and now 13 billion. So, your man, the man you've set up, your party staff has increased delays by two years by 10 billion dinars only in the Health Fund and allowed hospitals' debts to accumulate to as many as 13 billion. Since you've been calling on the past yourself, let's hear it, what you've done at the Health Insurance Fund. First, I think what's been going on for the last two years, when you've been running the Health Fund, is one of the biggest financial disasters in any of the social segments in this country, plus everything that's been going on with the selective taxes in the IRS and the huge growth of public debt, but we're just going to go to health funding, or the Health Fund. First of all, hospital debts are 13 billion dinars right now. The Health Fund's debt is 13 billion dinars. The debt for unpaid bills for over 60 days is even bigger when you take what they've just agreed to. Twelve billion dinars have been paid by the state for two large-scale drugs over this. It's a "BGfarm" and "Velefarm" without money ever knowing either "Hemofarm" or "Gallenics", 120m euros without anyone launching an investigation into it. 120m euros of state money went missing, and if your director of the Health Fund hadn't said a word, he didn't alert anyone, even if I knew what I knew. Your man who co-ordinated the security services didn't do anything to that cause, as if 120m euros were equal to 120 dinars. That's 12 billion dinars of the state paid the Velefarm and theBG drug farm. "Velefarm" and "BG Farm" never transferred that money to "Galenics," they never transferred that money to Hemofarm. It's just amazing you weren't interested in such a dubiosis. The new government won't hide anything. This is what I publicly say to my government colleagues who deal with and coordinate security services and these jobs talk about this publicly. That needs to be cleared up. There's got to be a responsibility for that. I'm not saying the Director of the Fund is responsible for this, but he had to file criminal charges against certain people, he had to launch an investigation. If he didn't do it, then he's responsible, too, if he kept quiet and knew. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic and I took two months to figure out what this is all about. Also, it took us a while to figure out that he's been keeping his mouth shut about all this and covering up this case. Of course we can't leave it under the carpet. We decided to clear these health debts completely by transferring these 13 billion dinars of debt to the public debt of the Republic and paying off the large-scale drugs within three years. Also, these 13 billion dinars of the Health Fund's debt is a debt based on delays in drug payments on prescription pharmacies. Now he's been late for 200 days, and it hasn't been that late before. Before this Director of the Health Fund came, there was no such delay. Now we've decided by law to cut it to 150, 120 and 90 days by making a strong commitment. This square fiscal deficit of 26 billion dinars is huge money. It's a lot more than these things you resented, whether some spending party is like this or one in the new budget. This problem is bigger than that, not to mention another 12 billion dinars of scandals, that the state paid someone something, that it did not pass on to pharmaceutical houses, one of which is "Galenika", which is among other things in the problems, and that no responsibility has been put forward for years. These two companies are in bankruptcy, and Velefarm and the BG Farm, but the question is, what now? What's for sure, I think the lesson for all political parties, for the state, is that at the head of the Health Insurance Fund, you can't be a doctor unless you have a doctoral degree in finance. He should be an expert in banking or insurance, or at least his team should be expert in those areas. What happened here is indeed a scandal of great proportions. Have you ever wondered how it's possible that in this exhausted financial sector, in health care, all pharmacies could be rich and the Health Fund could be poor? A system has been created to invoice gross rather than net prices from pharmacies to the Health Fund and at the expense of drug profits, a dubiosis is created in the State Health Fund. It's a system everyone has tolerated so far. The director of the Health Fund, who was your staff, who also tolerated it. It will now be interrupted because, one by one, Health Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic noticed it, because my team from the Ministry of Finance and Economy has noticed in the analysis of the problem. We wondered how it was possible that in one country, the pharmaceutical industry on its knees, how it was possible that a Galenika had problems, that a herd had problems, that there were problems in Zrenjin's Jugormedia, when people had to heal and buy medicines. We've established that it's not a matter of industry, it's a matter of intentional abuse of some individuals in the state. That has to change. If you're talking about the IMF, where's your cheek? There is no wonder that you have the courage to mention the fact that Serbia today has no co-operation with the IMF. Was it normal and responsible that a few months before the elections any arrangement with the IMF concluded, if you knew you were going to spend in and the assembly campaign much more than you put into the budget? Where was that responsibility to the state? If you were planning to spend more on the campaign, which we can attribute to the political election cycles that exist everywhere in the world, but then you shouldn't have been distracting the IMF and making a deal with them and completely ruining our face by concluding a contract that never lived. Look, you closed it in the fall of 2011, and it was formally hitched in February of this year because no audit has passed. Why did you even lock him up? You still have the nerve to mention him as a question for the new government, which is only under four months running public finances. Of course we'll talk about renewing the arrangement. This one's gone down. We were told by the IMF that this arrangement had failed and that because of the fact that the previous finance minister had lied to them. I can say that it is not the responsibility of all members of the government, but it is the Minister of Finance and it is the Governor, because the arrangement with the IMF corresponds to the Governor of the Central Bank in every state and the Minister of Finance in every state. You lied to the IMF. That's why they don't trust all of Serbia, because they don't care which party was in power last year, which is now. I'm serious. You've done enormous damage, and you have no moral right to mention the situation now, at least this year. Shut up for at least a year about it, because you messed it up, and then, if next year the new government doesn't renew the arrangement with the IMF, criticise it to the will. If you had a cheek, you'd do it, but you don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5198	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5199	As the people say, whoever does not know you would have paid you dearly. Anyway, as far as health care is concerned, this is the most intense attack on health management by G17 plus and the URS in the last eight years I've ever heard. For the two ministers you say now that you have one SPS minister, one can suddenly discuss and change the system. Why couldn't it have been sooner? Why didn't you even initiate a discussion about all this during those nine years of health management on the part of the URS and the G17 plus? When I was in the government, I didn't hear that one time. But I think it's much more important for our citizens that you haven't told us a word about how you think you're reducing the unemployment rate of 26%, you haven't said a word about how you think in those municipalities where that unemployment is greater than 40% to an acceptable level. You didn't say anything about how middle-aged people would find a second chance. You didn't say that people who come to the labour market will be able now that we see that those measures you proposed for five years back didn't result and their unemployment rate is almost 50%. We didn't hear that. You've confirmed, I think, that this budget predicts a drop in purchasing power of at least 10%. You have not answered what you will do to make Serbia, even as it was last year, at least at the level at which one Croatia and one Hungary are in debt, rather than under significantly more unfavourable conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5200	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5201	Well, since you haven't told the truth in the past, this is for the terms of borrowing, regarding Hungary, it's absolutely not true. Ask people on the side who are more in favour of the capital market by issuing Euro bonds today, Serbia or Hungary? Let's get this straight. Ask and you'll see. Secondly, Hungary, no matter how much I appreciate this country, at this point in economic terms, is not our country for comparison. You saw for yourself that they refused the IMF, that they run a strange economic policy and that economic policy I personally don't support. That's my perception. What's much more important, about funding health care, it needs to be clarified. So the healthcare fund is primarily the one who runs the Health Fund. It is truly strange that in one country, the Ministry of Health has no contact points with the Health Fund, which was the case in the previous government. Minister Stankovic, nor Milosavljevic, since the time Vuksanovic, your staff, appointed to the Health Fund, had no contact points with the Health Fund. It's like having a gun without a single bullet. You can threaten discipline with it, but you can't shoot without a bullet. The bullets are in the Health Fund, and they were led by Vuksanovic, whom you set up and astronomically increased the health debt. Let's tell you right now, he speaks very nicely, he seems politely, but the statistics he needs to see are not the Minister of Business, but the finance minister shows more astronomical work later in health during his term. Of course the new government will take him down. What was strange to me was that you called on your staff and criticized the new government. That's what's not moral. So, the state of health cannot handle the health minister himself unless he has the authority to coordinate and work the Health Fund, with the support of the finance ministry, in any country, whether it is Serbia, Hungary, Germany. It's a system. We've established good communication now, all the leading parties in the government, and we want to finally make one serious reform in the financing of health care. That reform is also supported by the World Bank. It means removing more right for hospitals to buy themselves drugs and medical materials, introducing centralised public procurement. The World Bank estimates we'll save at least 20% on that. It is logical to ask yourself, if wholesale drugs are paid today to wait 200 days for them to pay for a hospital or a home of health, and they are paying in advance for one "Galenica" or with only a month of waiting for "Hemofarm" today, that means that if they can borrow 200 days, how much are these margins on public procurement in Serbia's health homes and hospitals? The savings are being made by centralising public procurement, of course, where hospitals continue to play a role in planning the process. Of course, the whole idea of this is to change politics in this segment as well. If there was no reform somewhere in the previous period in the financing of health, I note funding, which is the responsibility of the Health Fund, which your staff led, it was no change. The Minister of Health is powerless without this. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5202	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5203	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'd like to draw attention to you too, Mr. Dinkic, and to you, Mr. Djelic. We can criticise each other in our debates, but take care... (President: Which member is it? ) Members 107 and 108 are concerned. Take care of the fact that we don't have too many people who are willing to, in such amazing circumstances, what are the circumstances in the Health Insurance Fund, continue to do their job, and you, if you think there are some potentials that aren't used, tell us where they are. Mr Dinkic, it's not the Health Insurance Fund, it's never been part of the Ministry of Health. Definition of the fund – a non-profit organisation. The Fund shall be financed from the contributions paid. Contributions are not paid because of the difficult economic situation. Then the state takes on the role of funding the fund's costs and we have a structural anomaly. The only director of the Health Insurance Fund that hasn't ended with a criminal application since I remember the directors is the director from the period of the government of Zoran Djindjic. Everyone else ended up in prisons with criminal charges. I think we should take care of it. Galenika, we've talked so many times here, it's not Galenika the problem of one minister, even if it's the Minister of Health or anyone else. Galenika is the problem of the coalition government that has agreed to pay one political racket by funding pensions as they think they should, and giving others hospitals because they think they belong to the hospital and the third drug factory. An increase in the number of employees, fountains being built, debts being made. It's a shared ride. I think we need to get out of this, not by taking down each other's hands right now, but by looking for examples of functioning. I don't know any examples... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... a sustainable health system that works as you now predict. Take care of it. By 2000, it worked like that. Centralized procurement, so you don't know what's in the hospital, what's in the home of health, what's the supply. That's a big problem. One man to run a business for all, very difficult to function.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5204	Thank you. I must confess, Mr. Jovanovic, that I don't understand your explanation for hurting Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Djelic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5205	Thank you. I will return once more because Serbian citizens have not received an answer to any of my questions. What you're going to do is make the unemployment rate, which has been your job over the last five years, which has been increased from 13% to 26%, especially for people who are so-called. The middle generation, who find it difficult, because perhaps one moment they were declared a technological surplus, struggle hard on the labour market? We see that all the measures you've proposed over the last five years don't yield results. Unemployment continues to grow. What do you propose in the 2013 budget for this situation to be better? I don't see anything new. Secondly, does he have a subsidy for new investors? According to some information, almost the entire budget has already been allotted to what has already been approved in the previous two to three years when you led that portfolio. The question is, is there any fresh money in this budget to attract a potential new investor? What are you going to do to make the situation at least a little better than this year, where we see that unlike the previous one, where 1.2 billion euros are attracted, and this year we fall to some 200 million euros in investment to make the investment bigger? What measures, what means, what programs? How many people in JAT, since you won't fund liquidity, will lose your job? How many dinars will increase the price of gas because you won't finance the company's liquidity, and it can't be seen that the gap between the price we pay to the Russian partner and what is paid on the market will be reduced? Finally, when you will ensure that contrary to what Hungary has succeeded, because I think that after criticism at the expense of the leading international financial institutions, given that during the visit of Budapest, the President of the Republic announced even better relations between neighbouring Hungary and Serbia... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Is it not directed to criticise their economic policy in this way? Either way, they've been paying 2% of the interest less in the last six months. Now it's much cheaper for them on the capital market than for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5206	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go. When I was in the government, I didn't hear that one time. But I think it's much more important for our citizens that you haven't told us a word about how you think you're reducing the unemployment rate of 26%, you haven't said a word about how you think in those municipalities where that unemployment is greater than 40% to an acceptable level. You didn't say anything about how middle-aged people would find a second chance. You didn't say that people who come to the labour market will be able now that we see that those measures you proposed for five years back didn't result and their unemployment rate is almost 50%. We didn't hear that. You've confirmed, I think, that this budget predicts a drop in purchasing power of at least 10%. You have not answered what you will do to make Serbia, even as it was last year, at least at the level at which one Croatia and one Hungary are in debt, rather than under significantly more unfavourable conditions. Thank you. Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5208	Well, since you haven't told the truth in the past, this is for the terms of borrowing, regarding Hungary, it's absolutely not true. Ask people on the side who are more in favour of the capital market by issuing Euro bonds today, Serbia or Hungary? Let's get this straight. Ask and you'll see. Secondly, Hungary, no matter how much I appreciate this country, at this point in economic terms, is not our country for comparison. You saw for yourself that they refused the IMF, that they run a strange economic policy and that economic policy I personally don't support. That's my perception. What's much more important, about funding health care, it needs to be clarified. So the healthcare fund is primarily the one who runs the Health Fund. It is truly strange that in one country, the Ministry of Health has no contact points with the Health Fund, which was the case in the previous government. Minister Stankovic, nor Milosavljevic, since the time Vuksanovic, your staff, appointed to the Health Fund, had no contact points with the Health Fund. It's like having a gun without a single bullet. You can threaten discipline with it, but you can't shoot without a bullet. The bullets are in the Health Fund, and they were led by Vuksanovic, whom you set up and astronomically increased the health debt. Let's tell you right now, he speaks very nicely, he seems politely, but the statistics he needs to see are not the Minister of Business, but the finance minister shows more astronomical work later in health during his term. Of course the new government will take him down. What was strange to me was that you called on your staff and criticized the new government. That's what's not moral. So, the state of health cannot handle the health minister himself unless he has the authority to coordinate and work the Health Fund, with the support of the finance ministry, in any country, whether it is Serbia, Hungary, Germany. It's a system. We've established good communication now, all the leading parties in the government, and we want to finally make one serious reform in the financing of health care. That reform is also supported by the World Bank. It means removing more right for hospitals to buy themselves drugs and medical materials, introducing centralised public procurement. The World Bank estimates we'll save at least 20% on that. It is logical to ask yourself, if wholesale drugs are paid today to wait 200 days for them to pay for a hospital or a home of health, and they are paying in advance for one "Galenica" or with only a month of waiting for "Hemofarm" today, that means that if they can borrow 200 days, how much are these margins on public procurement in Serbia's health homes and hospitals? The savings are being made by centralising public procurement, of course, where hospitals continue to play a role in planning the process. Of course, the whole idea of this is to change politics in this segment as well. If there was no reform somewhere in the previous period in the financing of health, I note funding, which is the responsibility of the Health Fund, which your staff led, it was no change. The Minister of Health is powerless without this. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5209	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5210	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'd like to draw attention to you too, Mr. Dinkic, and to you, Mr. Djelic. We can criticise each other in our debates, but take care... (President: Which member is it? ) Members 107 and 108 are concerned. Take care of the fact that we don't have too many people who are willing to, in such amazing circumstances, what are the circumstances in the Health Insurance Fund, continue to do their job, and you, if you think there are some potentials that aren't used, tell us where they are. Mr Dinkic, it's not the Health Insurance Fund, it's never been part of the Ministry of Health. Definition of the fund – a non-profit organisation. The Fund shall be financed from the contributions paid. Contributions are not paid because of the difficult economic situation. Then the state takes on the role of funding the fund's costs and we have a structural anomaly. The only director of the Health Insurance Fund that hasn't ended with a criminal application since I remember the directors is the director from the period of the government of Zoran Djindjic. Everyone else ended up in prisons with criminal charges. I think we should take care of it. Galenika, we've talked so many times here, it's not Galenika the problem of one minister, even if it's the Minister of Health or anyone else. Galenika is the problem of the coalition government that has agreed to pay one political racket by funding pensions as they think they should, and giving others hospitals because they think they belong to the hospital and the third drug factory. An increase in the number of employees, fountains being built, debts being made. It's a shared ride. I think we need to get out of this, not by taking down each other's hands right now, but by looking for examples of functioning. I don't know any examples... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... a sustainable health system that works as you now predict. Take care of it. By 2000, it worked like that. Centralized procurement, so you don't know what's in the hospital, what's in the home of health, what's the supply. That's a big problem. One man to run a business for all, very difficult to function.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5211	Thank you. I must confess, Mr. Jovanovic, that I don't understand your explanation for hurting Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Djelic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5212	Thank you. I will return once more because Serbian citizens have not received an answer to any of my questions. What you're going to do is make the unemployment rate, which has been your job over the last five years, which has been increased from 13% to 26%, especially for people who are so-called. The middle generation, who find it difficult, because perhaps one moment they were declared a technological surplus, struggle hard on the labour market? We see that all the measures you've proposed over the last five years don't yield results. Unemployment continues to grow. What do you propose in the 2013 budget for this situation to be better? I don't see anything new. Secondly, does he have a subsidy for new investors? According to some information, almost the entire budget has already been allotted to what has already been approved in the previous two to three years when you led that portfolio. The question is, is there any fresh money in this budget to attract a potential new investor? What are you going to do to make the situation at least a little better than this year, where we see that unlike the previous one, where 1.2 billion euros are attracted, and this year we fall to some 200 million euros in investment to make the investment bigger? What measures, what means, what programs? How many people in JAT, since you won't fund liquidity, will lose your job? How many dinars will increase the price of gas because you won't finance the company's liquidity, and it can't be seen that the gap between the price we pay to the Russian partner and what is paid on the market will be reduced? Finally, when you will ensure that contrary to what Hungary has succeeded, because I think that after criticism at the expense of the leading international financial institutions, given that during the visit of Budapest, the President of the Republic announced even better relations between neighbouring Hungary and Serbia... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Is it not directed to criticise their economic policy in this way? Either way, they've been paying 2% of the interest less in the last six months. Now it's much cheaper for them on the capital market than for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5213	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5214	For starters, we'll stop the vehement growth of interest and the public debt that you've made, instead of giving money to pay the interest to the creditors, because you're in debt at 7.25%, and we're reducing these costs and we're directing it to agriculture, first of all, because we think that in terms of global global recession, first we have to raise agriculture, because the demand for food is insecure, so if we invest in agriculture, we can sell it much easier than maybe some industrial products now, at least in 2013. That's why we've raised the highest budget for agriculture. As for encouraging foreign investment, you know that the new government is open to both domestic and foreign investors. We have enough resources in the budget that is intended for Siepi, as well as for the realisation of previous contracts, and for new ones, especially given the fact that when a project is agreed in the current year that only the first tranche is paid and the rest in the coming years. It's not a budget that's spent completely in one year, so it's never bigger to encourage investment. In fact, this is the record budget of the Siepe ever, because a few years ago it was a billion to two billion dinars, and now it's eight and a half billion. It's a record budget and it's quite enough. As far as JAT is concerned, there will be much lower costs of restructuring JAT than what you've been doing with a liquidity guarantee for a one-perspective projection, where the state keeps going to parliament, the finance minister is asking for money to be paid for liquidity for loans that JAT cannot repay and which fall on the burden of taxpayers. It's also a hoax to the public, giving money to the liquidity company, and you know he won't be able to pay them back. We broke it off because we don't want to deceive the public, even if the truth hurt. It is true that JAT at this point cannot survive under these conditions, that it must be restructured, that it must restore the fleet and must emulate the number of employees with the real needs of competing airlines. It will be much cheaper than prolonging agony and constantly asking the Assembly for money for new borrowings, for funding liquidity, and we know that he won't be able to repay it. So our plan for JAT is real. We want a modern company that will have the number of employees that corresponds to such regional aircraft companies of Serbia's size, but with new planes, not with planes 25 to 30 years old. One of the many planes will be purchased, a contract with Erbas, four new planes. Some eight planes will be taken on a losin, rented, but it may not be new planes, but planes a few years old, and in any case, in a much better condition than these existing ones, so that the fleet will be restored. We have the best pilots in the region and in the world and they've never been controversial. The administration is disputed, and in the administration, we have to compare it to a company that can do it, that has the right cost. We will also build a cargo terminal at Belgrade Airport, either alone or in partnership with those who also believe we should provide a terminal for the export of agricultural products from Serbia, fruit, vegetables. The new government has serious plans and anyone who gives us suggestions on how to improve these plans will be happy to receive them. Thank you, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5215	Thank you. I ask both the Ministers and the People's MPs to return to the topic. Are any of the members of the People's People's People's People's People's People's Reports reported for breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) You have no right to a replica, neither. We're moving on. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. Were you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? I asked, just pick up the Rules of Procedure, so I know. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5216	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'm advertising an article. 107th and 108th. If it is necessary to explain why it is an injury to the Rules of Procedure – it is an impression and I do not like it personally, the DS may enjoy this masochism itself, but for me it is an unacceptable atmosphere created in this society and, among other things, through the performance of Minister Dinkic and through Djelic's reply, in some ways, warms up. They don't sit in the Health Insurance Fund criminals. Nobody went there to steal. I don't know of any director who was chosen to go and steal there. Here, from the debate that you allowed, you got the impression that that's exactly how it is. The work of the Health Insurance Fund shall be managed by the Director, with the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. The Management Board has 21 members – 14 members represent insurance companies, two represent pensioners, two represent farmers, two represent independent employment and two represent disabled people. It's not true that the Fund failed because the former director, who ended up in prison, was a thief or because the current director was a thief. The fund has failed because there is no money needed to finance its smooth work and that is why hospitals are like ruins to you, not objects where you can normally receive and treat. That's why our health care has come down to the endless sacrifice of doctors and with incredible efforts to maintain what level of health care. What is the price of the euro in agreement between the state and the drug manufacturer? Last time was about 95 dinars. It's the opposite of life and reality. The health insurance fund can't take it. Maybe some other institution can, but the Fund can't. Instead of criminalizing people, because soon we won't have anyone to agree to work for the state, let us deal with the essence. If the Fund has failed, and it has, that's the price of the wrong policy. That's all I wanted to say, because I think it's my political obligation. Otherwise, this flame that was set on fire by those who can't offer anything else in Serbia... (President: Time, Mr. Jovanovic. Please, no matter what, you were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and you were looking for an injury. 107th and 108th, and then you gave a speech about the Fund. It has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Maybe there's no... .
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5217	It really doesn't make sense to abuse the Rules of Procedure, because any MP could speak that way, and then this session would look like something completely different. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from town: You were not here. I listened to the last minute of what you were saying and it really had nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5218	Mr. President, Article 27. Please lead this session. This really doesn't make sense. Individuals have been reporting for the violation of the Rules of Procedure for half an hour, to present a subject that is not on the agenda, or to think it's on the agenda. You know what, the DSS, our MP club, all MPs now report to the Rules of Procedure, point to some point in the Rules of Procedure and talk in particular. What does this look like? Please conduct this session as the Rules of Procedure and do not allow the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, otherwise everyone will do so. Everyone will be looking for space to express their opinion of every replica that comes forward here. We've been through this for half an hour, these abuses, and someone needed to prove it, after some event yesterday, but we won't take it anymore. Please hold the session. I insist that the Rules of Procedure be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5219	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5220	Thank you. It's really not easy after this series of replicas to talk about and get back on the subject, but believe me, I'm a little worried about this who's guilty of what he's guilty of and who's when and what he's been doing. I really think we owe, first of all, young people in this country a look into the future. Because, to paraphrasise that phrase about ecology, I think that's how it works for the state – we did inherit it from our ancestors and we really owe it to our descendants and we borrowed it from them. So, I think that with the budget rebalance, we ended this debate on what happened and how it was and why it was, and that the budget was an opportunity for one country to look at at least a year in advance. Well, let's do it. I would also like to appeal that in this debate we try to find out what is what we all agree on and what is what we agree on. I think we all agreed that this was the first budget in 10 years, maybe more, that was brought in time, that was enough time in the congregation procedure, that was given enough time to the public and that it was something that was important different from the previous period. Why does it matter? Because everyone who is interested had the opportunity to make remarks on the budget, to participate in the debate on the budget and in some way to change that budget or to cross the arguments about what is good in it and what can be better in it. What everyone also agrees on is that this budget has a vision and that this vision is sustainable – stability, through recovery of the economy, but also through social responsibility. There's no one in this country who won't say that reducing the deficit is a bold and responsible move. I haven't heard anyone say it's bad for the deficit to be halved over a few months from 7.2% to 3.6%. Of course, there are those who are concerned about whether it will be feasible and that was the topic we discussed. You know what, I'm not an economic expert, and even if you take the darkest forecasts of the biggest critics who say it's going to be 4.2%, well, it will be, but it's still 3% less than it was two months ago. Is that the biggest criticism of this budget? I deeply believe it isn't. About the growth that has been projected to 2% and whose projections are practically based on this budget, there is no controversy. Yes, that growth will be achieved. Everyone says, well, the finance minister himself agrees that it's because unfortunately last year we had a catastrophic fall. All those who criticised the sustainability of this projection said that neither Europe has so much growth, so there is no reason why it has not had such a fall in the previous period. So we agree that growth will be 2%, and that growth is based on most of the results that Fiat will have next year, and I have to remind you that this is an investment that many have criticised in the previous period. In this congregation, I listened to those criticisms. It is an investment that many later took pictures, but when we suffered criticism in this House, the URS were the ones who defended that investment and believed deeply in it. It will now bring us the growth we are talking about, and, of course, the agriculture in which this budget is additionally invested. I think everyone agrees that the economy has to start, that it has to be more dynamic and it will be more dynamic if the payments are running in time. The state has generated delays and non-payments and a set of laws that we adopt with this budget will contribute that this is no longer happening. The state takes responsibility in this business section that should lead to economic growth. We can reason on who's responsible for whether the RZO is independent or dependent on the ministry and how it was, but what's the fact that no one can argue that it was a responsible move of the state that would take over all obligations on itself when it comes to hospitals, that would allow hospitals to get to breath, start taking their jobs seriously and that the health system works the way it should work on patient well-being. The state will take over this debt for hospitals to work freely. The purchases will be centralized, which means they will meet all needs of hospitals and health homes in time, but with significant restrictions on the possibility of corruption throughout this system, where additional savings will also be achieved. (President: I apologize. Let me just tell you that your time has just come. I'll let you finish. ) Budget critics on the one hand say that citizens will find it harder to live, and on the other hand they say, fire people. This is the budget that stands between it. This is a budget that is socially responsible, a budget that will enable development, a one-man budget, I don't like the word radical, but a radical turn towards Serbia's further development. The united regions of Serbia are strongly behind this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5221	Thank you. National MP Ruzica Igic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5222	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, the esteemed presidency, I cannot help but feel that the discussions we have discussed so far have been about what would have happened if it had been or what you were doing and what we were doing. If the DSS, as the president of the parliamentary group said, were to start with such discussions, it would be about us criticising both sides, because we weren't in these stories that are now being talked about. However, it is commendable that the budget has arrived on time, but if we continue this way, we will probably discuss it by New Year's Eve and wait until New Year's Eve to adopt this draft budget. Today I would first of all refer to part of the budget relating to agriculture, water and forestry. I would like to express my appreciation to the ministry for finding the possibility of in some way raising the level of funds that are defined for this purpose. I also want to say that it's a good thing the Ministry recognized agriculture as a branch that is very important to this country. Why do I say that? Because the DSS recognizes agriculture not as an engine but as the basis of this country's development. However, when we look at the figures themselves in the agricultural budget, then we simply can't have a real insight into what it's all about, what it's really about agriculture. Why do I say that? Of the dry figures that have been broken in this huge document we have various things, which are subsidies, investment in irrigation, Atari roads, regional development, rural development, tourism, projects from international donations, eradication of swine fever, various transfers to the AP Vojvodina, according to local self-governments, etc. Therefore, the basic observation is that the budget could have been more clearly shown and explained. The Democratic Party of Serbia also believes there is not enough explanation for the distribution of funds. Why do we say that? We believe that insufficient funds are allocated for livestock farming, primarily for cattle production, and much less for livestock and fisheries. As far as cattle production itself is concerned, we have about 420,000 cows in Serbia today. Some think it's even smaller, somewhere around $380,000. Our ministry is a priority investment in dairy. If we invest in dairy, I guess we also have to have beef production that is the basis. We can't invest in a roof without having a foundation. I would like to point out that we have in Vojvodina because I come from Vojvodina, Novi Sad, places where this production is very active, where you have a village of Moshoring where you have 1,200 cows in one street, and in the other you have 4,000 cows and 10,000 sheep. It's a village, a small oasis located in our country. Today on Zlatibor you can buy sheep from that place, which is scandalous. The fear of these farmers and herdsmen who deal only with livestock and to the greatest extent of livestock farming is that they will have no food because of the great drought, that the question of how they will feed so much cattle, and therefore we believe that much more was to be invested in these things, especially because abandoned livestock farming is difficult and expensively revitalised and very problematic. I also note that large funds have been allocated to the development of agrarian tourism and organic production. I don't argue that organic production needs to be co-financed, that organic production is really an important thing, but at this point in time when it's basic agriculture, commercial maltene agriculture on extremity, we invest huge resources in agrarian tourism. I guess that should be an upgrade to this basic production. I think it's just unreal. In order to discuss all this as a man who is not an economist, I took a draft of a fiscal strategy that was adopted for 2013 and refers to 2014 and 2015, which says that one of the sources of receiving sales of inactive state resources, i.e. buildings, other building facilities of agricultural land, etc. So that's where we're gonna draw the funds from. The issue of agricultural land is a very sensitive issue, especially when we have in mind that it is seriously limited by restitution, by different compositions and by its status. I recall that there are about 500,000 hectares of unprocessed land in Serbia, and somewhere around 300,000 countries that have disappeared in restitution, various co-massations, in transformations, privatisations for the past 20 years. With this in connection with the DSS, it points to the disastrous position of the SAA, which the past government has signed and which allows foreign customers to purchase this agricultural land under the same conditions as our citizens do. We must urgently pass a law on agricultural land that would regulate that part. It's just amazing that Serbia as a small country has allowed itself to buy 30,000 ha of land. Serbia is not so big it can afford it. In the end, I want to say that no support for the agrarian will be enough as long as the national dinar is poured into the tycoon pockets, as long as one pair gets 12,000 subsidies per hectare, and 22,000 dinars give producers production for artificial fertilizer and until we put control into financial resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5223	Thank you. The word is from MP Borko Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5224	Dear fellow Minister Kalanovic, the 2013 budget proposal is indeed for any praise that has arrived within which no government has been able to do so far. It's for all praise. However, such commendations can stop. Basically, this is an extremely unrealistic budget that overestimates revenues and underestimates expenditures. This is the main feature that allowed the government to show a fictitious deficit of 3.6%. This is the official position of the Fiscal Council, which you heard from my colleagues earlier, and other institutions that oversee public finances and warn that the deficit in the following year can reach 5%. Unreally estimated growth in economic activity is 2%, while our biggest markets are in recession. Unreally estimated growth in income from profit tax to 47% in the year in which the decline in economic activity of 2% was achieved. No one can explain it, not even magician Dinkic. How does he plan to do that? Unreally estimated growth in VAT revenues is expected to result in an increase in demand in addition to a drastic decline in the standard of living. Unreal estimated growth in non-tax revenues from dividends from public enterprises. On the other hand, the estimated costs for the purchase of goods and services are low where the increase in energy prices is not included. Social benefits indexing inflation, as inflation is certain to be higher than the projected 5.5%. The cost of continuing the 13th pension programme, which was announced and not budgeted, was low. Financial support to state banks under the recently passed law, Jelizari Smederevo and payment of accumulated delays or delays in the state. Public debt, even if realised, this unreal budget would not lead to a halt in public debt growth that will reach 64% by the end of 2012 and 65% in the following year. Public debt has increased by only two billion euros in the government's work by three months. It remains unclear what resources are spent on when people are getting harder and harder to live on. Interests from 2012 grow 25 billion dinars or even 37%. As you say, the state occasionally owes, when the next year's interest grew so drastically. What's worst for citizens, and that's a standard of living. We have a situation where Mr Dinkic, how he manages public finances, can be seen on the first 100 days of his government's work in which he manages all the economic and financial flows of this country. So, dear citizens have increased taxes, the country's debt has been increased, basic living goods prices have been increased, salaries and pensions have been cut by over two million citizens and a record deficit has been created. This scenario awaits us through the implementation of the proposed budget for 2013. We're going to have inflation growth, a drastic increase in the prices of all the power plants. Growth in all other life expenses and cuts in wages and pensions. The result of this policy will be a drastic decline in citizens' living standards, estimated at over 20% by the end of next year. That is clearly indicated by the following data, respected citizens. Inflation from the July level of 5.4 jumped to 12.5 in October, and by the end of the year it could happen to reach 15%. A 30% increase in electricity has been announced, as well as an increase in gas prices if you do not sell Serbiagas. It's going to increase the price of coal, and the price of gasoline and derivatives not to mention, it's a daily phenomenon. It is particularly worrying that the prices of basic life-forms to which most of our citizens receive are rising. The average earnings paid in September are actually 6.5% lower than earnings paid in August. By increasing income for workers and pensioners by only 2%, with an inflation of 12.5, it means that directly, Mr Dinkic, who is not in the O.R., has reduced the standard of citizens by 10%. Next year, the Fiscal Council expects an inflation of 11.6%. I think it's optimistic, and the budget envisions an idxation of 2% and 0.5%. This will reduce Serbia's citizens' standards by an additional 10%. The local self-government is in financial chaos because you first transferred their tax money to them without transferring jurisdiction and thus created a hole of 40 billion dinars in Serbia's budget. When local self-government adopted budgets consistent with new revenues, you abolished a large number of original revenues, caused deficits and delays at local level, and questioned the functioning of all municipalities and cities in Serbia regardless of who is in power, regardless of your composing. It is now announced that the compensation for the construction land is abolished, which will further disrupt the financing of local self-government. What is symptomatic of this budget and hides part of some of our proposals, as it is prepared for an extremely unrealistic budget, should insist that the Assembly be provided with quarterly targets for the implementation of budget revenues and expenditures, as well as according to the fact that the Assembly is quarterlyly reporting on the achievement of the planned deficit and the level of public debt. We ask that the government quarterly reports to the Assembly on the spending of subsidies and the effects on growth of economic activity that these funds have realised. In particular, they are interesting in this budget, such as curiosity, shipbuilding subsidies of 1.2 billion dinars. Serbia, by the way, is a giant in shipbuilding. And the credit to Republika Srpska, by the way, we believe that Republika Srpska needs to be helped in every sense, out of two billion dinars to buy cars and computers. Shipbuilding, the question arises – since when did this branch become a priority for Serbia's economy, especially when it comes to the fact that the crisis makes huge capacity available for the transport of goods and that there is no demand for these products? Credit for Republika Srpska. Does this loan mean that Serbia is in debt on the international market, and then the expensive money paid under favourable conditions is given to Republika Srpska? Tourism, as Mr Dinkic's most popular branch. The subsidies went up again by 2.7 billion dinars, and I thought that old mountain was over. I guess I was wrong. The budget does not provide guarantees for Serbia. The question arises – are you going to raise the prices, or are you going to sell the company? The budget planned to issue an additional guarantee worth 400m euros, giving the government broad authority to issue them without the Assembly's consent, a huge risk of debt transparency and the possibility of further increase in public debt. What are these guarantees planned for? Bonuses in the MUP. In the MUP, all members from the gendarmes to the counter clerk, a monthly bonus of 10,000 dinars was awarded. Otherwise, it is in the form of social assistance, which is offensive to the members of the MUP. We think that people in the MUP should have a much bigger salary than they have. The question arises – why didn't you give employees in BIA or Serbia's military? Why this discrimination, if it isn't just a naked deal among your ruling parties? This budget does not plan to build South Stream, and you announce that construction starts in December. As you plan to finance this investment, it's completely unclear. As many as 30m euros have been provided for modernising the tax administration's information system, and the IPO programme provides another ninem euros. Do you realize what that amount is and explain to us on the basis of whose estimates are given and on which these funds will be spent specifically? You don't need to worry, Mr Dinkic, who you're not in the O.R., because there are five billion euros scheduled in a day, from the promised 100 billion in the SNS election campaign, which is 100 billion in ten years. So these days we expect those first five billion that are promised. So don't worry about that deficit at all, I'm sure it'll be easy to cover. In six months from today, which is the date let everyone remember, they will be able to buy five times less things in stores and thus endanger their own standard of living. Therefore, we have before us an unreal, one deficited budget, one of Mr Dinkic's budgets that has achieved a truly magical thing, that he has succeeded in a second in borrowing 143 euros, while the evil and bad Cvetkovic has succeeded only 54 euros. That's what the point is. Instead of building old mountains, you could open eight factories in eight Serbian districts and create jobs. Time leaks, debt rises, citizens' standards declines, unemployment rises, every second 143 euros you borrow, and there are no answers and solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5225	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5226	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear minister, I am sorry that Minister Dinkic is not here to listen to the whole debate in principle and according to the amendments. This is the most important law that a congregation adopts during the year. Now we've heard fighting between the former and current authorities who've been more in debt to the state. It's just that when we hear citizens, they should be aware that all the big money they're talking about is the money we're going to have to pay back. No one gives us that, and no one gives us that kind of money that goes for securities of value, credit, whatever we take, that someone's gonna have to pay back. It just grows public debt, whether for 100, 50 or not, I don't know how many euros a day. We know that in the last four years it has increased by seven billion, as we know that the revenues of the budget by 460m euros are lower because we have set out to apply a non-selective Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The last income when the SAA was not applied, from 2008, was the customs revenue, 760m euros, and the 2012 income is planned at 300m euros. That's the difference between applying the SAA. These are money for which no interest is paid, which is the revenue of this budget, which ended up whether in the pockets of some foreign companies, domestic companies, they mainly did not end up in the Republic of Serbia's budget, from which the funds could finance all the obligations that I am now going to talk about. I will talk first of all about that the revenues that are unreally planned on the basis of estimates that do not stand are incomes that cannot provide funding for all budgetary commitments, as they are now dimensioned. In Serbia, it is becoming more and more difficult to live day by day and almost 50% of Serbian citizens are at the poverty line. It's a galloping process in the last two years, which from day to day more people are pushing towards that poverty line, which is completely worrying. We have not heard a word about this at the inauguration of Minister Dinkic and everyone else in the ruling coalition, that they are concerned about what is more difficult for citizens and what is the situation that will burden us the most. We're listening here to stories about deficits, about surpluses, about growth, about this borrowing, about 0.5% difference in interest, but about citizens, about ordinary people no one talked about in this assembly. It's simply a subject that is not mentioned, as if we don't exist here because of these citizens, but that these citizens exist because of the Parliament, because of the government, that the government or anyone else can do experiments on them. We exist here because of citizens, and we have to be in the position of citizens. This budget has to be in the hands of the citizens. These games with deficits, surpluses, 60% of GDP, this much percent, etc., simply citizens don't care. Citizens are interested in living next year and whether they will be able to live better or not from this budget. Unfortunately, the way things are now, it won't be better for citizens in the next year. It's a fact that the government and government must face. Next year, it's hard to live better than it is now. In the last four years, 270 thousand people have lost their jobs during the Socially Responsible Government. It's the largest number in the region. We have the highest unemployment rate in Europe and the lowest employment rate in Europe. These are questions we haven't heard the answer to during this debate. The social policy defined by this budget does not satisfy the basic needs of Serbia's most vulnerable categories. In these difficult times, which will be even more difficult next year, it's one objective thing that we can argue about, but the situation tells us that it will be, they're not telling us that the government is taking care of the individual who needs to be at the centre of attention, the family that needs to be at the centre of attention of this debate and the focus of the budget, which in every way must be given to the individual and the family to ensure that these difficult times survive. I don't expect in these difficult times the state has to save on citizens. On the contrary, the state must save on itself, on its state apparatus that is expensive, irrational. The state must save on unnecessary investments, the state must save on itself. The only savings in this situation are topping to citizens, pensioners and government employees and all those who receive money from the budget. Limited profit growth, which no longer monitors nor costs, nor inflation, nothing. We've defined it by the State Service Receipts Act. Profits and pensions will be even more depreciated next year. Nobody cares about that. Social givings will also be all unscathed. At this point, the most endangered categories are not taken into account. It doesn't matter how we make life easier for them, which is the obligation of the state, to make life easier for those who are the most vulnerable, and these are families with children, families where no one is employed and who have more and more, because 270,000 people in the last four years have lost their jobs. These are nursing households, especially in rural areas, which have nothing to support themselves from. These are pensioners with small pensions, where these increases, which will be, 2% plus 2%, do not fully match the situation in which Serbia is in and the situation in which Serbia is going. The Democratic Party of Serbia proposes that social maps be drawn up and social assistance subsidies are adequate. It's not a job that's hard. That takes six months. The state would have to save, and I'll tell you a few examples where the state can save. Millions of euros are being allocated again for car procurement at the Joint Affairs Office. Is it necessary to now get new cars for ministers, assistants and deputies? Of course not. The funds are projected, 155m dinars are scheduled for construction of a new basketball hall in Belgrade. Does Belgrade have some basketball halls, that we need another one? There's a little "Pionir" and "Arena" and "Forests" and everything else? So the state isn't saving. Ratel pays 700 000 euros monthly rent of business space. Doesn't the state have any offices to give Ratel that they're settling in? One, the S.I.V. 3 is spinning half-empty. Are these gentlemen from Ratel not responding to these offices, but has 700 000 euros a month to be paid by the citizens' money to rent a business space? We at the DSS consider money to be spent irrationally. Getting hunting rifles isn't something that's a priority in the budget, and that's all about citizens' money. It's simple, the state has money, but it's being spent irrationally. It saves on citizens, and that's something that needs to change. The individual citizen, the family, the most vulnerable categories of the population must be at the centre of this budget, at the centre of the debate in this assembly. They have not devoted a single minute to them so far, nor have the drafters dedicated a single minute of the story of how they live in Serbia today, and in Serbia they will only live up there. That's what we have to take care of because we're here for the citizens. There is no state because of the Assembly, because of the government, because of the ambitions of individual ministers, this Assembly exists and this state exists because of citizens and finally in this assembly must be taken care of by citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5227	The word has a folk MP, Nenad Constantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5228	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, I am sorry that Mladjan Dinkic is not in the hall today, I am sorry that Mladjan Dinkic does not want to discuss the budget with MPs, he allegedly expressed that wish last Friday, and we should now paint that his chair is empty, and then hang on Twitter. I cannot understand that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the finance minister do not know what the budget is. I can't understand that the minister told us on Friday that he would present the figures without speaking about politics. Budget is a total government policy, the budget is a government programme and with this budget presented by Dinkic, and now he has not come to discuss it, the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia disagrees on the fact that the prime minister is not with us today. So it's a practice and it's a practice for the prime minister to represent the budget. There is no prime minister because this budget is completely contrary to what he said in his exposé. There are no ministers from any party in the ruling coalition, however, except the URS. Economic policy is clearly being conducted in the media because we see there are no measures in this budget for structural reforms in Serbia. If this is the budget for the first year of government work, we can realize that the government has absolutely no courage to launch any reform in this country. If he doesn't have the courage to do it in his first term, we're wondering when he'll have the courage. Obviously never. Now I understand what that false story is about that Serbia is on the verge of ambition, that we are in front of bankruptcy, and the best proof that it was not true is that no reform has been in the past three months, and none of this bankruptcy has happened. After three months, the citizens are getting worse, the money is getting smaller and everyone can see that for their monthly salary they can buy much less than they could buy last month. What brings us a new budget? That should be said to the citizens of Serbia openly. It brings us a higher price of gas, it brings us a higher price of electricity, and it brings us more inflation. We heard from the minister that there will be pay increases twice 2%, that's 4%, but we haven't heard that everyone predicts 14% inflation and that means we'll live at least 10% worse in the next period. The Democratic Party cannot support the budget it envisions for citizens to be poorer in the next year. Inflation was in the first quarter of 2012 3.2% when Minister Dinkic was in government and was not the finance minister. Now that he's third quarter finance minister in 2012, inflation is 10.3%. What are the measures you've proposed so far? Measures to raise VAT and raise excise duties are proposed. By raising VAT, you have put everything on the back of Serbia's citizens as well. So, it's getting more expensive since the VAT was raised. It's more expensive fuel, more expensive cigarettes, now you're raising company profits from 10% to 15%. So these are not measures that represent structural reforms in Serbia. These are not measures that can bring us out of the economic crisis. The fiscal council has made it clear that it's a fictional plan of 3.6% of the deficit next year. They predict a minimum of 4.5% and maybe 5%, as they say in their analysis. The greater deficit will lead to more debt, of course. Greater borrowing will lead to greater public debt. The fact that Finance Minister Dinkic is prone to higher borrowing, talks and figures, which is that Serbia has committed more by a billion and 123 million dinars in the last three months. So 375 million dinars a month we're in debt. That's two and a half times more than when Dinkic was in the previous government, but he wasn't the finance minister. It's a walk. Today we heard there were huge expenditures during the election campaign. The expenditure for the first seven months of 2012, the average is 78 billion. September of this year 85 billion. October of the month 96 billion. I don't feel like we're in a campaign. So the government spends much more than it has spent, and the burden should be borne by citizens of Serbia. So, contrary to what it said in Prime Minister Dacic's exposé, it doesn't take citizens to tighten their regrets, but rather the state needs to cut costs. We have much higher costs. We heard on Friday in a statement by Minister Dinkic that restructuring is limited, ending by half 2014. We haven't heard a word about how 140 enterprises in restructuring will be restructured. There's obviously no money in the budget for restructuring. What does that mean? This means that by the middle of 2014, we will have 50,000 workers on the streets because they will be out of a job. So 50,000 people work in 140 enterprises in restructuring. I think it is extremely hypocritical, even malicious, when Minister Dinkic said -- we gave them a year and a half to complete the restructuring. How they themselves will complete the restructuring and find strategic partners when Dinkic could not do so as Minister of Economy and Economy whose mission was 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, and now in 2012. So we're going to have 50,000 jobless workers, on the streets, and it's very much like when Dinkic was and the governor, so the bank employees stayed on the streets and he absolutely didn't care about it. The Democratic Party cannot support the budget that workers are left on the streets without any social programme and no idea what these people are going to do. This budget for me is the same as the rebalancing. There is no announcement of structural reforms in it, and I think it is clear to those who have made the budget that this budget cannot last more than six months. I'm asking what's gonna happen in six months. Either you sell the EPS, or you call the election. I suggest, given that you are unable to initiate structural reforms in the first year of your government, that you immediately call the elections and openly tell the citizens of Serbia what the situation is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5229	MP Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5230	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, the public and the largest number of MPs, members of the Committee on Culture of Serbia's Assembly these days reacted very sharply and with concern to the government's decision on the participation of culture in the Republic of Serbia's budget. If we look at the budget for education, to protect the environment, we will see that it is also not considered the strategic priorities of this government in one country, a poor country where these resolutions can be a significant basis for development. For each party of the political spectrum, culture must be a priority, regardless of whether it views it as a protection of cultural heritage, or of traditional values. What is particularly important for DS, which is an incentive for free creation, an alternative way of looking at society, these are priorities that we need to take special care of. In other things, the Constitution has committed to protect the freedom of scientific and artistic creation and to encourage and assist the development of science and culture, not to maintain it on the edge of existence. So the numbers show what kind of politics the government leads. The funds you provided for culture this year, i.e. in 2013, speak a lot about this policy. The percentage, say knowers, is closest to developing countries, such as Cambodia, is lower than the percentage of, say, neighbouring Montenegro and most countries in the region. What is particularly important in these moments when the country is in an economic crisis, is to realize that this is a moment when the participation of culture in the personal and family consumption of citizens is very little or almost non-existent. This should just be an alarm for the state to get even more involved and ensure stable cultural financing. Who today with the receipts he has can pay a ticket to the theater or buy a book without the state being completely uninterested? That is why we must not be fooled, that by reducing cultural resources, we will provide more significant resources to address those objective, real, social problems that this country has. It is also important to know that "the cheap cultural production" usually means "a cheap cultural product". We are already facing the consequences today, that many decision-makers are no longer making the difference between entertainment and culture and that the criteria for the allocation of budgets have become less and less clear. If we put culture on the verge of our priorities, we must be aware that the consequences of such a decision are long-term and dramaticly harmful. After all, we are today suffering the consequences of a despised attitude towards culture during the 1990s. If our citizens are materially poor, we must not allow them to become culturally poor. If you read the documents of international organisations, whose members we are, UNESCO or the Council of Europe, you will see that they repeat the same message. It takes political courage and determination to highlight exactly the budgetary policy priorities that save society from the difficult challenges of today's day. Culture, art, education, democracy, participation of citizens, equal opportunities, protection of the environment, social justice, the basis for building a sustainable society and development is necessary. So the whole world realized that cultural products, services should not be treated as goods and even less as goods of broad consumption. What is an investment in the future, and culture and education certainly are, must be protected from dramatic spending cuts. Since these strategic areas have not received that protection in this budget, this is another reason the DS will not vote for the 2013 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5231	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5232	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, the fact that we are discussing the budget today should mean that today there is a whole government sitting before us or at least most of its ministers, but it implies in any case that it is sitting and the prime minister, because the budget is not the sum of the figures, because the government's policy represented by parliament is binding, above all, to show whether it meets the promises it made on the one hand, and on the other hand what life has meant for the citizens of Serbia. So the budget is not a set of input and output digits. The assembly is a serious policy that the entire government should be declared here today and explain to the MPs the reasons why this budget looks like it does. The fact that there's no one from the government today, except the finance minister, can tell us two things. One thing is, one possible answer is that the government is not interested in this important topic or that the government doesn't have a clear policy, so it doesn't want to stand behind what this budget represents, and on the other hand, that the government disagrees with the policy, which is now, then the question for us, presented who? So who is behind this policy that represents today's budget? The big question remains for us, in any case, we can easily conclude that the government of the Republic of Serbia does not stand. To discuss today's budget, I think we should first and foremost compare it with what was promised to the citizens of Serbia, because, if Serbian citizens choose those who promise something in the election, the assumption is that those promises should at least try to keep them. Let's see, what were the promises, and what does this budget offer regarding these promises? So, the promise was, and the underlying grudge to the previous government was too much debt. On this subject, we have had countless discussions here in parliament about the fact that the previous government was overly in debt despite the fact that we were living at the time of the biggest economic crisis, which of course hit Serbia. With this budget, the government has managed to owe us 145 euros per second in just a few months. In a second, the country is in charge of 145 euros in just a few months. If we want to compare it to the previous government, so let's see how much the previous government was worse or better than this government, then we can say it's at least four times as much as the previous government did. The first promise made, this budget has been trampled, and not for small percentages, it has been trampled essentially several times by increasing the country's debt compared to what was in the previous period, and above all, in the most serious way, it has violated the promise made in the elections and that I believe that this majority, or at least one party in this majority, in favour of reducing debt, has received citizens' confidence. The second promise was that the previous government was in debt and that this government would by no means do so under more unfavourable conditions, that this government would receive some generous, friendly, almost free loans, and then we have proof that the loan that the previous government received from the Russian Federation, for one percent of the interest, is less than the loan that this government received from the same Russian Federation. So, the promise because a new majority will come which is so popular among some countries, which will then run to give us loans under incredibly favourable conditions, is also not fulfilled and is in a very obvious way broken. The promise made in the elections and guarantees that the new parliamentary majority would do so was also a reduction in inflation. Inflation, which in the first quarter of this year, during the previous government was 3.2%, by the end of this year, since this government came, by all estimates more than 12%. This indicator, which speaks of having stability and predictability, is quite clear that this promise is not fulfilled with this budget. The next promise, on which I think at least one party, since all the other parties that were in the previous government and are now in the government, other than the DS, which does not apply to them, refers to all that is objecting to the previous government, concerns those parties that are now in the government, but at least one party that was not in the previous government, has promised and claimed that public procurement is losing at least 800m euros annually. It's to be expected that in this budget we see savings from, say, at least half that amount. The budget does not show one single euro of savings that can be recognised as savings from public procurement, which are then called robbery and in any other way. It remains to be assumed that those who stayed in the government think that what some have promised and said that public procurement is a choice of corruption, that they do not consider it and that they do not see in it the reserves that would be recognised in this budget. What was promised, and from this budget we will see that it is absolutely not fulfilled, is a reduction in expenditure. So if you look at the previous budget, you'll see that the expenditure in this budget is much higher. We're just talking about whether the promises were real. For Serbian citizens, I think it is not relevant, it is relevant for them whether the promises are fulfilled. So, with this budget in the roughest way, it's a promise, that public expenditure will be reduced, broken. What does that mean? This, on the other hand, means that the burden has fallen on citizens, not on those they have promised to have unseen reserves, which is to reduce spending in the state system in the users of the budget, etc. So, and that promise not only wasn't fulfilled, but from these indicators it was broken in the most cruel way possible. What has also been promised and firmly guaranteed, which is why they claimed that the previous government did not work well, and that this government would change it, is raising citizens' standards. So we were aware that at the time of the economic crisis the standard of citizens was compromised. Did all the measures taken during the economic crisis give the best answers to this crisis remain to show time. What was the claim of those who sought the trust of the citizens, that with the magic stick they changed their lives and that their lives made them much better, actually proved to be another one in a series of broken promises. For just a few months, citizens' standards have fallen by some estimates 20%, and by some estimates more. By the end of the year, the assumption is, given that gas and many other energy sources are coming together, that this standard will drop drastically. So, and that promise from this budget is clearly not fulfilled. The promise to raise the country's international reputation and credibility, I don't think it's worth talking about. The country's international rating and financial rating has dropped dramatically with all the negative assumptions that this will continue and in the future that is what needs to worry about now. So if the assumption that there can only be progress if there are enough foreign investments, we know that enough foreign investment can only be if trust is high enough. The way the governor of the National Bank has been elected, as amended by the National Bank Act, and I remind the minister, who has been here before all of us and has been giving his honorary word, and has now disqualified himself that we trust him, that the National Bank Act will not return to the Serbian Assembly, because international financial institutions have no objection to him, we know that he has returned and we know that the objections that have been made by the DS must be changed in that law, only shows that the international credibility of this country with this government is what we can expect to be expected to fall in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5233	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5234	I wouldn't suit you if you hadn't made some mistakes, so for the sake of the public, I want to answer, because it's not fair for me to discuss with people who aren't economists about economic issues. I'm not going to say anything about politics, but this is about the budget. What did you misrepresent? First of all, you said that expenditures in the budget don't go down, and that's not true. They're shrinking realistically by about 5% compared to this year's budget, and they don't increase as you say. What didn't you tell the truth, too? I can't believe you're not ashamed to talk about the public debt of the Republic of Serbia the way you speak? I'll explain why. In the last four years, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia has doubled, and interest costs have been increased. That borrowing you were talking about, I don't know how much in a second, in a minute and an hour is the fruit of your Minister of Finance's work. Why? Because the new government has waited for a funding commitment of 4.4 billion euros this year, so we don't do anything, what you left, plus three billion euros transferred to 2013, plus three billion each year for the next 10 years. So, the start-up costs I was talking about, maybe you weren't there when I had the opening show, like when you got into a cab, are three billion euros a year for public debt payment, which was mainly made by the government where you had both the prime minister and the finance minister. It is true that we were in debt in September for a billion dollars on much more favourable terms, but we had to pay milk premiums that you didn't want to pay farmers, to pay salaries to the miners in Resavica, to provide for children's supplements that you didn't want to pay, for people who worked through public work programmes at the National Employment Service, which you didn't want to pay. Is it economic policy-making, you give people something to do, so you don't pay them, so you show it's a smaller deficit? Such an economic policy has led us to this situation. We had to take a billion dollars to pay off the debts your finance minister made and plus these new $750 million that we now, in November of the month, sold Eurobonds. We took it to finance next year. Not this one, but the deficit next year. In other words, this now applies as I told your predecessor who has now sat next to you, when you talk about effects, you will have the moral right to talk about it in a year. So, to sum up what's been done in four months compared to the four years you've worked and made this mess, it's inconclusive and incorrect, because you're still paying the bills of your wrong public finances policy. In a year, when we submit the final account in 2014 for 2013, put everything on my back. I am guilty or responsible for everything that will happen in 2013, but this year is entirely yours. Why? Because we're paying for what you did and the late ones you didn't want to pay for. What do we do now? What we're saying is that these 13-billion-dollar health delays, hospital debts, the health fund's debts for another 13-billion, there's no, there's no unpaid obligation for farmers? Of course we had to pay. Where do we pay from? Did you leave us any money in the vault's account? You're nothing or anything minimal. So we had to go and sell Eurobonds. I know you're a political option that's been assigned to speak the same thing, you 20 in the so-called. "mesage box," but these media manipulations have led you to be in that situation you are in right now. Don't repeat the mistakes you've been making for four years. That's my warm advice. You're right, maybe. I don't need to give you political advice, but economically? Don't tell lies to the citizens. The truth is, we didn't keep our promises. We literally fulfilled all promises, except one. We've made a radical turn in public finances. We're going to double the deficit, and we're going to have to charge ourselves to pay back the previous debts. We're working on much more favourable terms than the previous government did. We cut and abolished the parafiscal burdens. We've erased 138 parafiscal duties from the system. We've increased the significant agricultural budget. What didn't we do? We haven't brought him to 5% yet. I honestly admit that we're going to do it in the 2014 budget. The allocations were only 2.5% in total in the budget until this year. It's 4.5% now. It's an important move forward. Of course, you have the right to criticise and speak, but don't criticize me for what the finance minister did to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5235	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Micunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5236	Mr. President, either court this minister or let this debate cease. And last time I warned the minister that he didn't understand his position here in the assembly. He can't speak directly to people, say they're not telling the truth, that they're embarrassed, etc. He is not at the market, he is in the Assembly, in the country's largest and most significant political home. That pride offends the dignity of the congregation. I'm referring to this particular member. Please, if you care about the dignity of the Assembly, we all protect it together. He's not our master here, or he'll count us as a teacher someday, whether we're all listening or not. I don't want to listen to him. I've been listening to him for 20 years, but it's my right to listen to him or not to listen, and it's his duty to behave politely, to respect the MPs, to answer the questions they're asking him. Please, or arrange relations with Mr. Minister, invite him to be responsible and to behave properly or to interrupt the debate on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5237	The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5238	To comment on the behavior of a man acting this way, I think it is an insult to the government to have such a minister and an insult to parliament that he must listen to him, but we will continue to be polite and we will talk about this debate on the basis of facts. Someone who can claim on two occasions different things don't deserve to be trusted by blanco. I think the facts will show who was right, no matter how loud and rude in his debate. The fact is, the indicators in this budget are like I said. Do you think you can make excuses for that? It's a whole other thing. I'm talking about facts. They, unfortunately, do not contribute to what they were promised. If you think it's hard for the facts if they don't agree with what you're saying, then let's keep it that way, but citizens will live facts, not what you're saying. That's all we're warning you about. Citizens will live the facts that are like this as we brought them out here today. You can justify yourself for the rest of your life. You're the government, you're the previous government and the previous government. You're also responsible if you think that government's responsibility is so great. But for the truth's sake, I don't think it's fair to leave the citizens in the belief that some of the things they're brought here to stand. The fact is that the Fund's debt was 14.5 billion when a man came after he led the Fund on proposal G17, that the loss was now reduced to 12 billion. That's a fact. You may not like it, but it's a simple fact. If we're calling someone responsible, if you think he was the Director of the Fund, then the G17 and you're responsible as his president for the fact that he was your man.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5239	Time. Mr. Ilic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5240	The people say, as Mr Djelic says, the mother did not curse the son who gambles but what is being taken out, and you, dear Democrats, are taking out all day long. Run away from the responsibility you have for all that has been done in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5241	I apologize, Mr. Ilic, don't speak to any MPs, please, because you have the right to state your opinion, so I ask you not to speak directly to the MPs and other MPs directly for the Rules of Procedure, please do not receive the speaker until he has finished what he has to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5242	This is about a classic replacement of thesis, about running away from responsibility. The party that had full authority in this country, the responsibility for implementing the policy, had all the instruments in its hands, today is trying to pronounce the first economic crisis, and then the political party of the URS. This is not in line with what we had the opportunity to hear in your congregation. It's like you weren't at the Assembly. Your new leader has invited all of you to apologize to the citizens of Serbia for the state you left in the country, but you are obviously not acting accordingly today. Obviously, he'll have a headache about it too. Don't run away from responsibility. Your responsibility is objective. All the things we've heard about the catastrophic state of the country, the high unemployment rate, over-indebtedness, it's the best report of your work you've ever given yourself. You have all discussed both the duty and unemployment and the catastrophic state and the economy and the catastrophic state of justice. For all of this, you are the most responsible. Don't give us any more lessons, especially no lessons about the state of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5243	Mrs. Kolundjia, on what grounds are you answering? (Hope Kolundji, from the city: Replica. You didn't mention it during the presentation. (Hope of Kolundji, from the place: On the basis of my presentation, the People's Messenger appeared. No, I'm sorry, Mr. Ilic was talking about DS. It could be done by Mr. Micunovic as head of the parliamentary group and I would allow a replica in that sense, but you are not the head of the parliamentary group, nor his deputy. Then do you stay by the Rules of Procedure, since you have the advantage? (Hope Kolundji, from the place: I give up.) Mr. Micunović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5244	The Democratic Party is responsible, and the finance minister is irresponsible. I think we're done with that. A man who's been in all governments for 20 years and has been governor and finance minister and all in all order, that he has nothing to do with this, it's only the DS's fault. Let's get back here to the main problem. I can understand the anxiety of a minister who expected, as he believed on his Twitter, that it had broken down, no more opposition, so to speak, no one can stand up to him, and when they do, then there's anxiety. Therefore, I ask you to continue the debate on the budget and that the minister, without being nervous, answers questions. That's his assignment here.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5245	I'm glad we can continue our budget work. I have to point out something that is my impression, about the work of the National Assembly, because if any parliamentary group asks the minister to express respect for him, which I think is absolutely normal and I ask all the ministers who come here to treat themselves like that in the National Assembly. At the same time, I must say that I have heard a lot of statements today that have often been on the border offensive both to government members and to Minister Dinkic, whom he did not react to except in one situation. So, please, in order to have in the spirit of debate something that is completely natural and normal, that we all stick to it. And you all know what falls under offensive behavior that can be so interpreted. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5246	Thank you, Mr. President. Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will listen to my chief of Parliament's club and I will talk about the budget. Introducing the finance minister, several historic moments related to the draft budget were presented. One of the historic moments that has been greatly praised on several occasions is the circumstance that this budget arrived on time, that it arrived in October, instead of December, etc. That's really important for us MPs, and that's good, but I'm not sure that's going to make citizens better. There's one more thing. The fact that the draft budget arrived in October is ignored here, but a bunch of amendments to the government arrived the day before the debate began. These amendments by the Government significantly change the structure of this budget. The first amendment increases income, I think, by nine billion and six. So what would have happened if the budget had arrived 20 days later? You might find another 10 billion. The second historical moment, which is also often repeated here, refers to so-called. the historical deficit, i.e. maximum, historical maximum when the deficit is concerned. I really can't check it now and go back, it's ours to look ahead, and look ahead, what's quite certain, when we look at the draft of this budget, at the historic minimum, if this proposal is adopted, there will be a culture of Serbia. When part of this budget is proposed, which is intended to inform the confiscation, Serbia's culture in 2013 will have slightly more than half of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Why? We see that income is planned to grow and it will be higher somewhere by 16% compared to 2011. The Ministry of Culture and Information in 2012, according to rebalancing, had six billion and 955 million. According to the budget plan, the Ministry of Culture and Information in 2013 will have six billion 23 million and something small. It's a fall from this year by 13.5%. Are we aware of the effect of this relationship to culture? Are we aware that, one by one, we punish our citizens, that we will deny them that they have new books in libraries, to watch new films, shows, that instead of protecting them, we will leave our cultural treasures to the teeth of time? Are we aware that we are introducing ourselves an embargo, or retreating into isolation? With this money for international co-operation, the National Theatre will not be able to go to Nis, for example, let alone cross the border. Third and most important – this attitude towards culture, we create an atmosphere that culture is something irrelevant, irrelevant, there is no money. Where's the money? At the party and at the estrada. Are we going to turn everything into a party and an estrada? Are we going to brutally introduce market principles into culture, so we're going to increase ticket prices for cultural programs, and then we're going to be able to pay for them by the money guy, or are we going to throw everything away and hit the thin wires of commercials, so let's watch the one who doesn't have the right taste, and that usually goes together? So will we miraculously wonder and ask, if there's money for these researches and doing some new research, why do young people read less and less, why is the less going to the theater, to concerts, etc.? Are we even aware of the threat to the spiritual health of the nation? It's a long-term disease and it heals even slower. I really wouldn't want to spoil harmonic relations in the ruling coalition, but I have to point to one fact. For culture, it is the most reduced, i.e. halved in this position, it is called - economic classification 4.2.4. specialized services, where just the money for projects, for programs, for cultural heritage, for films, for theatre, for music, etc. Then I wonder – isn't it because the culture minister is no longer from the same party as the current finance minister? Things were slightly different in the previous period, when the economy minister was also deputy prime minister. I will say, in 2008 there were a billion and 66 million dinars, in 2009 there were a billion and 637 million, in 2010, there were 985 million, in 2011 there were a billion and 181 million, in 2012 a billion and three million. In 2013, the new minister will be able to count on 496 million for culture, three million for information. That's about 500 million in total. I would like to propose to the new minister that the amendment that I have tabled on this draft budget be accepted and asked for a portion of the funds to be measured according to culture. If he didn't, he'd be most friendly to propose that he resign. This way, with the money at his disposal, he won't be able to do anything, and he certainly won't want to remain remembered as a culture minister in a term in which culture had a historic minimum of separation from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Let me finish. One of the world's most famous anthropologists, Clifford Gerc, known for particularly studying the relations between culture and social processes in third world countries, wrote: "There is nothing that does not depend on culture – man, society, economy, politics. There are no people without culture, but without culture there are no people." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5247	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5248	For the sake of methodological precision, let me just say that last year in the 2012 budget, the Ministry of Culture also included digital agendas and telecommunications. They gave a nominally higher amount, but it was not intended for culture. One part of that budget was intended for telecommunications, i.e. the digital agenda. Now the culture ministry's budget is at the same level as it was in the previous year. Of course it would be good to increase it, but as all budgets are limitedly planned, so is this budget planned. There is, therefore, a methodological difference in the budget plan of the Ministry of Culture for 2013, i.e. 2012, since the Ministry of Telecommunications and the Digital Agenda is no longer in the Ministry of Culture, but is then at the Ministry of Economic Relations and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5249	Thank you. Mrs Mojovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5250	Counting on some justification, I brought the official messenger in which the budget rebalance was published. Of the six billion, the ministers did not tell you well, out of six billion and 955 million, 12 million and 860,000 were scheduled for the digital agenda in 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5251	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Let me remind you, there's only one minute left for your MP's group. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Minister Dinkic answered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5252	To be perfectly precise, communication was scheduled for 800 million, which you dropped, via a digital agenda. So the digital agenda is the amount you said, plus for communications – 811/824.909 dinars. You dropped that. The culture budget is the same this and last year.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5253	Here you go, Mrs Mojovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5254	I guess every time I point out that you didn't say it correctly, you'll answer. You answered me – it was for the digital agenda. Then I'm telling you, for the digital agenda, it was $12 million. If we keep this up, you'll always find a reason to keep down the culture budget. But you cannot deny the fact that six billion and 23 million are in the budget plan for 2013, when part of the information fund is again excluded – 0.58%. It's a historical minimum and you can't deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5255	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. He's not here. Next is MP Ljuban Panic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5256	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Dinkic, in this minute I'm going to try to point out one important problem that we have in this budget, above all, to the abolition of the Environment Fund that our country is facing. The budget mirrored the policy of a government. By abolishing the Environment Fund, this government shows me total concern about what kind of environment our children will live in and grow, as will all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What is particularly worrying is all the imposes, which have been filling that fund, and they have continued to take from an import and trade business, which can be characterized as waste. Since the Environment Fund has subsidized and financed 15,000 workers involved in recycling in Serbia... (President: Your time is up. Just one more sentence. (President: here you go. Thank you. ... And that, by rejecting the law passed to the Assembly by the AP Vojvodina, you have compromised the work of 17,000 people in the construction industry, and with these 15,000 people, only this budget law, 32,000 people and their existences are under question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5257	Thank you. The next reported one is Enes Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5258	A small correction, chairman, I am Enis Imamovic. The Honorable Chairman, Honorable Ministers and Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, we Members of the Party of Democratic Action Sandzak basically consider this budget to be a developmental one, as it provides funds for development projects of energy, industry, travel infrastructure, agriculture, etc. It is commendable and increased financing of national councils of national minorities, which is a good message. We are one minority regional party and we have a constituency in six municipalities in Sandzak. However, we want to point to a poor state in which municipalities are located throughout Serbia. We have tabled an amendment to the 2013 draft budget. The amendment we have submitted is an objection that we have and it represents our concern and our proposed solution. We believe that the amount of 500 million dinars, which the government has purposed to develop undeveloped areas, is least said to be unserious and a bad message to citizens living in the most difficult conditions in Serbia. In addition, the 2013 budget for the poorest municipalities where there is no production and there is a strong unemployment government, loses every perspective and leads to hopelessness. This is about municipalities that do not have the basic means to produce the necessary project documentation, let alone to realise the essential infrastructure projects. We have 46 municipalities that are in the jurisdiction of the Office for Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas fall into the fourth category of development, where national income is below 60% of the Republic average. Of these 46 municipalities, 23 municipalities are classified in the category of devastated areas. There are over a million of our citizens living in these municipalities. They're the most endangered population in our country. This proposed budget excludes the possibility for the Government's Office for Sustainable Development to help develop project documentation for projects in underdeveloped municipalities, aimed at creating a positive environment for attracting investment and creating new jobs. In this way, municipalities have been denied the ability to draw funds from EU pre-accession funds. The adoption of our amendment will create conditions for financing sustainable development of underdeveloped areas. A special accent should be placed on the development of a project documentation which is a prerequisite for obtaining funds from the EU pre-accession funds mentioned, as well as other development funds that are being opened by obtaining a date of EU accession negotiations, which will also be multiplier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5259	Next up is MP Momo Colakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5260	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, the position of the PUPS Group was expressed by Mr Jovan Krkobibic, and I have nothing to say in particular, except to list a number of basic reasons for which we will support the 2013 Budget Proposal. Why are we doing this? First, because he, as I would say, is a "sanitary character." It's shrinking. Subsidies for public enterprises are being reduced. We're less in debt on the international financial market. There is fiscal discipline in the state and greater discipline in spending the funds of local self-government and all budget users. Another reason is that it is a developmental character, because it provides for a continuation of investment in infrastructure, energy and construction, and we particularly support that more significant funds have been allocated to agriculture than they have been in previous years. The third reason is because we believe that it is partly a social character because it provides for the payment of all acquired rights of socially endangered categories of the population, starting with pensioners, social categories, social contributions, etc. First of all, we think it's very good to guarantee the safe and regular pension payments of all categories, starting from agricultural, independent, military, to employees. Regular payments of all social contributions, increased by, as the minister said, about eight billion are guaranteed. We expect all local self-government to act in the same way as proposed in this budget. For these reasons, our parliamentary group will support the budget, and for the rest of the time, I will leave a colleague, Kovacevic, who will also speak. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5261	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5262	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, is ahead of us with this book in which Serbia's 2013 budget, this book that is getting fat every year. There's more and more zero in it, but the sadness's getting bigger. This book also looks at our close past and our present, and our strategy of our future should also be looked at. What is this past filled with in this book of false promises, betrayed hopes and expectations, that there is too much haughtiness and spending of ruthlessly hard-earned couples by our citizens? All of this past is also embedded in this present situation where we see a decline in standards, a decline in production, a decline in consumption, and an increase in poverty, an increase in accidents, an increase in social separation and an increase in social injustice. All of this we have an ambience of extreme depression, which conditions total negativeism in relations both with people and with countries and with events. All of this creates an irrational picture and an irrational story of decision making, making key decisions and dragging us into an even bigger problem. The state is skating into even bigger problems because of this and there is a need for faster and rooted state reforms and many changes in relation to our own country, because what we have in the last few years is a replacement of Partism, in fact patriotism has been replaced by partism. That is why it sometimes seems degutantly that the previous regime that has been fighting through this country and leaving the wilderness has made Hiroshima of Serbia, today some of its proposals are trying to explain how this country should be drawn from the problem. What else does it do and what are the basic elements that make up this budget? It's that we've lost 270,000 employees for the last four years. That we have 800,000 on the paper of the unemployed, and in fact a million. That we have a million and 770,000 employees, and of which 700,000 work in the public sector, representing 40% of total employees. You won't find that anywhere in the world. Germany has 10% in the public sector of employees and America is 15%. If Germany with its powerful economy had 40% in the administration, I'm telling you, it would have failed, too. What is the essence of some of the basic elements is that we have a million and 700,000 pensioners, which says that a pensioner is coming to one of the employees. All this is past and all that we inherited is being built into this budget where we see 65% of GDP makes a deficit and we have 95 billion just for interest in 2013. As the proposed budget is now covered by some institutions that we must respect, above all, the Fiscal Council and the IMF. The fiscal council says the budget is too optimistic and will not be able to reduce the deficit from 6.7 to 3.4%. However, they are not so exclusive and leave the reserve, while the IMF stories are different. They do not enter into the conversation, delay the conversation for spring, which is an indefinite deadline, and which in diplomatic terms represents one of the proclivity to say that they do not agree with this budget. But given that this same IMF projected to grow our GDP to 1.5% last year, and in practice it was 0.5%, then we can conclude that the advisers of this IMF come from this kitchen, from certain structures that don't have to be acceptable. We are left to hope that what the government has predicted in this budget will come true. Let's just hope so, because there's a lot of contradiction and there's a lot of uncertainty and we rely a lot on some luck. Based on everything I've listed and the estimated deficit, GDP growth and inflation of 5.5%, we should consider making some concrete proposals for certain changes. First of all, three elements matter. The first is savings, the second is production, and the third is employment. When we talk about saving, we have to start from the state having to start saving, because we don't have time anymore. We must, realistically, see that in our administration, we have at least 30 to 50,000 extra employees. If the state doesn't get rid of that ballast in time, we'll have even more unemployed from the manufacturing sectors and it will be devastating for the survival of the country itself. It is this policy that, by means of political means and in the interests of certain parties, has led to many production, small and medium-sized enterprises being shut down. We got unemployed production workers on one side, and an employed administration and bureaucracy that makes its own business and invents some jobs. We've come to hunt down the Kalemegdan teachers who bring their children on a field trip and punish them for coming to show the children where Sava is poured into the Danube. This attempt by the bureaucracy to justify its existence itself is devastating for the survival of every society, and it will be for us. Therefore, the explanation that these people will not be fired and that there will be no law and social programme until the crisis is over is slightly unserious. That's exactly what led us to the crisis we're in as a society. In all this, when you take into account a large number of agencies and allocations for NGOs, spending money all over the country, I don't see how we can even save society from total cataclysm. When we talk about local self-government and talk about how it's going to stop there now, I think it's too late now. Now, even if we let them hire, they have nowhere else to hire. There are no more chairs, and there's no oxygen in those offices, because it's so tight that no one can stop there anymore. In some local chairs, they'll take the chairs home, and in the morning, when they come to work, they'll bring them home. A lot of people don't even come to work because they don't have anywhere to work. It's all a last-time product where patriotism was replaced by partism. If we don't get rid of that more important party than the state, and if we don't create a sense of having to fight for this society and for this country, we're in front of a complete sink. I'm not just going to comment on how different separations are for certain local self-governments when it comes to road maintenance, where a local self-government is given 2.4 kilometers, and for some 200 kilometers. I don't want to talk about transfer funds, because it's very clear that relationships and other relationships are present. This creates an incorrect attitude toward certain local self - administrations. Do not put control over the work of certain local self-government, in terms of spending this hard-earned money, is also devastating. Often, it is invested today in some things that have to wait, and some water factories are invented, and there is no production and that many young people leave these environments. We'll get into a situation where what's now being done, there won't be any water left to drink, there won't be any more people. The regional development strategy does not exist and many municipalities, especially the border, will slowly start to shut down if we do not come to our senses and we do not come up with a way to bring this production and investors into those parts. First of all, subsidies have to be put into the economy. The economy must be helped, primarily export-oriented, because we will hire people here first, but in terms of improving the quality and competitiveness of our economy in foreign markets. When it comes to domestic production for the domestic market, the story is much more difficult. Expensive consumption has fallen. When you pass the store you will see more employees than you will see customers. With consumption, we'll have a very difficult time starting domestic production. You should think about how we're going to make imports of at least those products that are on the domestic market. There's a lot of competition. By increasing customs duties on certain products that there are, we could protect a lot and we need to protect our production, if we're going to survive. There's a very important, alarming data that we'll understand and get rid of bureaucracy, run that production, or we as a society won't be. What's positive is that certain funds are being put into agriculture. We need to know, and that's not a small percentage, that's 4.5% in the budget, where those funds go. Are they going to the final part of the production of agricultural products and are they going to irrigate or are they going to go back to the usual way, as it happened before, and spend money not knowing where or how? So, looking at all this stuff, we need to be aware, as soon as we get rid of all the subsidies in public enterprises and find a solution to how we're going to get rid of these public enterprises, because we don't even have state-owned public enterprises today. Today we have party public enterprises so burdened with people and extra workers that it is unbearable. Galenika succeeded in four years, when she had extra workers, to receive one-and-a-half employees a day and to increase pay allocations from 2.4 to 3.6 billion. These are huge funds spent in a completely uncontrollable way, and it all comes down to meeting certain party appetites and shopping, as one cellist said... (President: Please return to the topic. I'm talking about the subject. I'm talking about the budget and how money is spent, because it's about the money that this country and these citizens are about, some kind of irrational spending and throwing away by public enterprises, it's looking at our deficit and everything that's going on. In the end, will economic growth of 2% be highlighted? I think it's possible, because we certainly won't have the drought we had last year, that's where God will help us. If inflation is going to be 5.5%, that's what we'll see. If inflation is 5.5% in this budget, I think he'll go into some books. If it's up to 8%, I think we can handle it. If it's over 8%, we'll have a very serious problem. What I think about this budget, it's that he's a map tower, very nicely packed, looks graceful, seems to be harmonised, but the problem is how he maintains it. If only one card gets out, and there are many weak spots in that building, everything will collapse, and we will be in a very big problem. So I tried very constructively with certain suggestions to help. I don't want anyone to get me wrong, the SNS will vote for this budget, it's not controversial, but we have a moral obligation to say what we think is good and to say what we think is not good. We're leaving time to see what it's gonna be like and who's gonna be right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5263	Thank you. The following has been reported as a folk MP is Maja Gojkovic, but she is not there. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5264	Madam President, Vice-President, honourable ministers, respected colleagues and fellow Members, the budget should follow the government's policy. This budget should monitor the implementation of the policy objectives next year, the planning of this budget in many segments, obviously extorted, in the overall social and economic environment, i.e. the situation. Such a draft budget, with all features, of course, and flaws, will show its value only if it is consistently and preferably implemented to the end, i.e. if it helps create conditions for 2014 to be fully developed, if many segments of the state structure are organised and functionally reconstructed, i.e. make it more efficient and economical. In order to provide conditions and resources for the development of some systemic continents, now by force of opportunity unacceptably neglected and denied by this budget, I think in the following year we should, as an illustration of what I said, do at least a few things. I'll just try to get some on. On one side we have today's entire legal system in this country, still set up very extensively, not efficient enough and a system that costs a lot. The plan must, of course, be worked in the following year, so that in 2014 we have an overrun. On the other hand, you have security services, which are also far from the necessary resources to have a safe state. The latest events show that we don't have it. We need to be aware that these services require a lot of resources as far as functional equipment is concerned, because these funds are expensive. The consequences can be seen, and many can't be seen, we'll just see them. On the third hand, since we're not developing these topics today, we have something that I'm really worried about, some colleagues have talked about it, we have a culture that in this situation is an inadmissible little asset. It is an area in which a major distribution has been made in relation to this year's budget. I cannot accept that in any poverty of the state we can further tolerate this. These are now extorted situations, but I'm talking about 2014 that there is a need to create conditions in 2013. I can't afford to stand behind something that needs to be shut down in fact, and it represents the essence of every nation's national being. Culture is exactly what it is. So, as you can see, we're going to vote for this budget, because everything that I point to shows that the state of affairs has forced us to save on these things. So I don't keep counting, Madam Chairman, I'll just say one sentence. I want for the public who's following this to point out one thing. In this budget, the country's largest savings or budget cuts relative to this year's budget is the country's Assembly. It has just shown how all segments in this society should behave when it comes to saving and preparing conditions for a better 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5265	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5266	Dear gentlemen, we have a budget for 2013. It can be treated in two ways, one is political and the other is economic. What matters to me right now is that this discussion, like the previous day, has a tone of political character in the budget. On that side, I'm going to try to get a little more picture of what's not standing here, and it's going to happen, and it's going to help significantly to make what's going on as a real picture in real life picture in 2013. The pessimists can always talk about this critically, but when you have a life ahead of you that you need to paint in the next year and you belong to some new time that started with the end of the election on May 20th, then you have to treat in a different way the time ahead, try to measure optimism and some community painting of the years that are coming. The time has passed behind us. With all the desire to get that wheel back, it just can't. Many examples are also in the means of information and in the public about what happened in previous times. I don't want to talk about it. I'd talk about optimism. The budget is the most important act and the most important document this Assembly brings over one year. I think all this time and this moment of debate that we're in is just one good-looking moment and we have plenty of time behind, and especially we have enough time ahead of us to define a number of topics. A few optimistic things I see on the side, and it's going to happen with this budget, and they're part of the critical tone that's being brought in at the moment. There have been disputes, they say – you will not achieve such a tax on the company's profits. I mean, I think there's a great chance that this corporate profit tax is bigger than planned. I'll say a few reasons. This budget is followed by a number of regulations that bring this optimism. First, something will happen in the tax world that in Serbia, there will be blockages from many businesses and conditions will be created, you know, a new regulation that will erase interest. These are not classic tights, these are tax rates that are calculated by a comfortable method, and they have a significant impact on the total tax debt that is currently burdening both the budget and Serbia, and I think, above all, on the taxpayers of Serbia. The forgiveness of this debt and the rise of the blockades count on creating one new environment and creating conditions for these companies to definitely do two things. First they start calling their partners on the phone again and saying, "Here, now we can start working." That those who have employees knock on the bank door and say – we can borrow, no matter what the conditions are. They'll look for some tanks in their production volumes. So a number of small businesses or small businesses will be able to re-think positives. To generate income and thus reconcile their tax obligations, that is, when it comes to legal persons and entrepreneurs, it will also happen to a number of families that will eliminate some of their old debts that have burdened them in every way. I think that's a good measure, and at this point, the cross-section with one condition that we had behind us and a good incentive to further strengthen the charge in the budget. It is evident that these two months have been significantly improved in the sector, and I think that by the end of this year and the beginning of next year, this could be an even more significant measure. We're going to have another measure that's very interesting, which is taxing tax returns or you're "of the Shore" zone. Many Serbian citizens have had opportunities to do so these days, and some have moved both geographical maps or globes to see where some islands are in the Pacific or the Atlantic Ocean where our citizens have made their own businesses and through which they manage key capital in this country and privatised capital. This measure of taxation of cash transactions with those parts, with a rate that will not be small, even there can be considered in another way, that possibly this rate, given the amount of transfers and radicalises in some larger scale given the amounts and that a little more operation can be performed. It's just that you have no control in that sector what's going on. There remains money and who knows where they travel around the world, because Serbia is losing significant resources that are not invested in development, which are not invested in incentives, in production. Then when someone talks here, we'll be out of new jobs. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, All these funds will go into subsidies, they will go into development, and those who do not know what they will definitely have to invest those funds in the economic categories that are basic. So, in new production processes, in employment, in development, or they're going to face the real indicators that every country has. That's why I'm building optimism that this budget has a chance. Yes, more importantly, it means reducing the deficit, reducing public debt, repairing everything we may not see at this point, because time will bring new quality. That's what the optimists say. The pessimists say it's all terrible and we're going to new elections. In other people's ruins, we can't look for a new accident for Serbian citizens. We need peace right now, and we need all of us to continue this bag together and against corruption, because it has not brought anyone good but a small number of individuals, to calm down the passions that are not necessary at this time, because Serbia is surrounded by a number of other issues that are difficult and very complex and should help the leadership and the government find the right way out of these issues. Of course, we should be a dying barometer of society that will restore citizens and optimism and trust for a new time. In 2013 it may be a chance for Serbia to go the other way. This budget is an opportunity for all of us to see through it a new hope for employment and a new hope for new generations coming to the employment bureaus and a new chance for people to get a positive start on thinking and saying no more hope. I think this budget says there's hope for Serbia and there's a chance we can all make it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5267	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5268	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Ministers, for the Roma Party, this budget in that part is in a situation where it can reduce the budget deficit seems a real task, it seems like a real goal, and in that sense I'm going to talk about another idea that I think can help and present certain indicators. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia asks the question of water management in a different way, we will be able to obtain significant savings, as more concrete pools per cubic meter will not cost 350 euros, we will not build water supply factories that cost 20.30 million for municipalities at all, and they are not put into operation at all. We will not separate large funds for the production of only tender documents from several hundred thousand euros, and that these tender documents are not in use at all, that based on them we cannot withdraw significant funds from the International Community that we can now withdraw from undeveloped areas, just for areas like Banat, such as some other environments. I mention Banat because it's the environment I come from and instead of people getting water, getting sewers, they get luxury swimming pools and spending, and they don't get quality life. The next thing I want to talk about is the issue of implementing the Roma integration process. We've submitted one amendment. In this part, I want to talk about the general contribution of this amendment. That it is not a good thing that the Office of Human and Minority Rights did not propose it immediately at the start, in defining the budget and thus showing in another way the people in that office their intricacies. In order for the government to achieve its objectives in this direction, it would have to make significant changes in the office itself as a government. The basic idea of this amendment is the following. To provide funds for the formation of cooperatives to encourage housing, it means residential and crafty cooperatives for a simple reason because six hundred thousand euros from a project conducted by a decade implementation team under the auspices of the OSCE are expected to come next year. If we do not meet in an adequate way with these means, I fear that these co-operatives will go in another direction, not in the direction Serbia wants to go, in one unproductive direction, and that in 2014 we will conclude that we have spent only six hundred thousand euros on Roma integration, i.e. to encourage cooperatives in one incorrect way. The next thing that is encouraged by the amendment, too, is for Serbia to become the centre of youth education. Here I want to pass on the consultations I had with representatives of international organisations where they have shown great interest in this direction that if Serbia really shows some results in 2013 Serbia can become a regional centre. We can withdraw between five hundred thousand euros and a million euros annually to finance the education centre, because it would educate people from across the region. In this way, Serbia begins to export its resources, its mind through different forms of services. Also, I want to express my satisfaction, since the Ministry of Finance and the minister are getting closer together with the views of the Fiscal Council, that this is very important for the public of Serbia, and that in this direction it creates one certainty for all of us that there is one clear goal and that we can all stop for, but I agree, it is not only up to you, the respected ministers, from the government, from all the structures of the government in the depths, and if we do not take significant steps in this direction, I think it will be very difficult for us all together. Let me comment on one more thing, it's a matter of funding the national councils of the National Minorities. I think that this government and your ministry must be in a clear position that national councils can no longer be firms, that they can't deal with public works, that any money that the vault gets in this direction to pay off such funds, should be stopped, because, by definition, the national councils are institutions dealing with certain issues of co-operation with the state deciding on certain issues, and if they want to deal with specific things, theatre activity, publishing activity or other, then they can start institutions, not public works, become businesses and deal with all that they don't need, without doing what they need to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5269	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right at the beginning to say that this budget is progress compared to previous ones. First of all, it's very easy to get out of it that this budget is partly due to what the former regime has done. The revenue in this budget is 965 billion, and the expenditure is 1087 billion, the deficit is 122 billion, half as much as it was in the current 2012. I think the Ministry of Finance should be commended if the lower budget deficit is achieved at the end of 2013. What stands next to the budget, forgotten by those who until recently ruled and a sum covering not only the budget deficit of up to 122 billion, but a sum of 554 billion, out of which 400 billion dinars over three billion euros are meant to pay back the former regime's principal debt, is only about the achievements of the principals that will reach 2013. It is also clear that, regardless of the high level of debt, something large has not been done by the scope of the approved loans that we will allow in 2013. So, no matter what our debt is 55% of GDP, and perhaps that percentage has crossed, we need to allocate another 550 billion dinar for the necessary projects next year, almost 4.7 billion euros in order to approve loans and resolve some infrastructure issues that, despite the large public debt, have not been settled in the previous period. We've heard a lot of objections here from the former regime, they've been particularly justified by the fact that it was a global economic crisis, so they've forgotten that they're in charge and that in this budget and that we need big funds to pay back their debts and their principals. To avoid the world economic crisis, I will list the percentages of GDP, it is in Serbia 55% of GDP, so as not to justify it, so to say that in Romania 40%, Macedonia is 22% public debt and that there is 18% of GDP in Bulgaria. So it's not all they've done the product of the global economic crisis but the incompetence and the desire to turn the state into a partner society, where they've taken as much as they wanted and where there's been large debts. With all these debts, and the next, that led us to this state, that we are measuring public debt today, and that a long economy should also be measured. The debt of economy and population in our country alone is almost 20 billion euros, interest paid by the economy and the population in the last 10 years is somewhere at 22 billion. When we take the debt of the population and the economy in the country and abroad, the debt left behind, all of it totals more than 40 billion euros. I think even those who lied will agree with that condition that they left us and that was found. This budget deals in part with the correction and consequences of the former regime. We need 90 billion to pay the interest, and that's what it says about the debt level, but it also talks about how the former regime was in debt. So, out of those 90 billion, I think 46 billion is a commitment to domestic banks and a little less to foreign banks. When we take into account that our ino is debt, public debt, greater, and the debt in the country is smaller, then we come up with data that domestic banks, foreign banks guaranteed by our state and how well they earned, given that the debt in the country was smaller, and that the funds allocated for the payment of interest are far higher. What I'm saying is that in the former regime, they've made good money on the side -- domestic banks guaranteed by the state of the country. When we look at the revenues, then we'll see that the main incomes from VAT and excise, what worries is that out of 434 billion, how much will be collected from VAT, is 296 for foreign goods, and 135 billion dinars on domestic goods. This shows the desperate state of our economy and that in consumption every third thing we buy will be of domestic origin and it is clearly seen from the structure of VAT. The 90-billion-dollar interest they smile for, which they set up for payment next year, is 50% higher than we set out for the Department of Defense. The Department of Defense gets 60 billion, and the payments on debts they made only next year will be 90 billion. Those 90 billion are bigger than all subsidies, not just in agriculture, tourism, railways, roads. The 90 billion we have to set aside for interest, for debts, we could have made 300 kilometers of highways. It should also be said that they put us in the position that the interest is 90 billion in debt, and that childcare is 42 billion, that social protection is 30 billion, and that the interest on their debts next year is 90 billion. As far as I'm concerned, I have a grudge, and there are criteria for maintaining the means of the roads. We have a situation, this is my objection to the Ministry of Finance or to someone who determined that Kikinda has 11 kilometers, Zaječar 163 km of local roads, Becej 2.4 km, Bojnik 76 km, Šid 9 km, Negotin 125 km, Senta 3.9 km, Shop 78 km, Beocin 6 km, Kursumlija 110 km, Doljevac 4.4 km, Dimitrovgrad 81 km. I'm afraid whoever was doing this table on the local roads is wrong somewhere because Indjia is 11 km away and Gornji Milanovac is 191 km away. I think that someone who's been putting together this table with mileage of local roads, didn't do it right, and could come up with some of the municipalities being damaged in the maintenance of these roads, and I live in India, we have over 50 and more kilometers of those local roads that can be considered local roads, too, for transfers of local self-government, to set aside 35 billion, and if I remind you that the interest on debts made by those who are all funny, 90 billion, then we see that we're going to give more interest three times than we're going to give to local self-government. My complaint also relates to the fact that the minister announced that municipal services, i.e. the prices of local self-government services, would be self-determined and I'm afraid there will be a great variety. I also have an objection to transfer funds. For example, Indjia got 156, Kikinda 234, I know there's some formula, but let's just say, Presevo got 409 million health funds. Either way, the ministry deserves praise if the deficit is reduced as they say. If everything is respected what was written in this budget, unless we're forced to do rebalancing, given the hole that was left behind. Finally, to look back on subsidies in agriculture. I'm unhappy that it's not 5%, for every commendation it's an increase in premiums and subsidies, but given the current developments, we have to follow well where these subsidies are being spent. So, these days, I've been going through the plantings of vineyards for which millions of euros have been allocated, so for now a vineyard of 160 hectares, the former government has, the former regime has allocated a million and 600,000 euros. Today, when you leave four years later, there is no vineyard, so only the paper on spent funds remains. So, these subsidies that amount to almost a third of what the affair is about these days, which has shaken our public, almost one vineyard paid off by the former regime, undeserved, subsidies million and 600,000 euros, for the vineyards you can't find there. I also found several orchards, for which a subsidy was paid that does not exist at all, where there is only agricultural land, which is naturally privatized. Since I live in India, therefore, I also know of this case called "the great winemaker", the former prime minister of the DS, who withdrew 525,000 euros in subsidies for the time being of the vineyard, as if it had been planted, although the vineyard was planted six months before he even rented that land for five years. I'm still asking, what fool is issuing subsidies to a five-year-old vineyard? It's almost amazing what the former regime was doing. I'm calling again on the D.A. to deal with these problems. I claim that their friend, the party tycoon, had loaned Zivkovic a vineyard, that he only used it to get subsidies, that after...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5271	Mr. Risticevic, the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5272	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5273	The theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5274	The subject is subsidies, ma'am. I'm asking that it be controlled, that these things don't happen to us, and I'm asking us to control that unfortunate year in 2007. If we came to power, we came not only to rule, but to see how they had previously ruled and to see why this former prime minister from their party, the great moralist, got unearthed 525 thousand euros and today we listen to the lecture of his students. So, what I'm saying is that in the future, regardless of the subsidies are increased, we're trying to get subsidies to farmers, to the producers, not to come back to some guys who are going to deal so badly, just to withdraw subsidies from their party friends. I don't want to repeat the mistake they've made and say the following at the very end -- it's not a problem what we're going to pick, the problem is the inherited state. If we go through, it's not the problem or the debt that the former regime left behind, the problem is the debt structure, the problem is the lack of a source to pay back, and if you go through with Serbia, regardless of what 17-18 billion euros we owe, as much as it says here in the budget, when you go through with Serbia, you see how much our infrastructure is abandoned. So they almost didn't do anything. We are witnessing the desolation of our paths, our stripes, our education, our health care. They left Serbia almost without a chance for the present and future generation. So these moral sermons of theirs, where while they ruled, one hole, a smaller hole, they patched up with bigger holes and bigger debts. So, such a situation should be avoided, but I fear that our debt, thanks to the consequences they left behind, thanks to the fact that it is now necessary to invest in what they did not invest in, and I am in debt, I am afraid that our debt will be far greater at the end of 2013. Mr. Minister, a skilled minister is the one by definition, and it says in an anecdote, which rips off as many feathers from the goose as possible, with as little snooze as possible. You've got a dead goose. They left you a dead goose. That goose doesn't move anymore. So, from that economy, there's nothing and careful about that tick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5275	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who did not exercise his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is Dr. Mirko Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5276	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when this debate is over, I would like to say that it showed what the DS was talking about at the very beginning, and also during the debate, which is that this budget is only drawn up mathematically, and that there is no reform in it, and that the policy, which is offered on the basis of it, is actually the policy of increasing taxes, the policy of increasing inflation and the policy of reducing citizens' standards. Based on this grade, the DS won't support a budget like this. At the very end, I'd like to appeal to Mr. Secretary and ask him two questions. I noticed during the debate, Mr. Minister, that you were giving different answers to similar questions and, simply, you were making a mistake, at least at my place, whether it was due to a lack of concentration or for what reasons, so here's an example. On the previous day, on the question of one LDP MP, I think it was Mr Đuric, I am not quite sure, who asked for and said that certain reforms were to be implemented and that they were visible in the budget for next year, you gave the answer to that question that the reform of this type, for which he advocated was not implemented during the recession period. I was very confused about it, because I thought that the next year was planned as a year with a positive rate of economic growth, which is the opposite of the definition of recession, and of course it was confirmed by your current explanation that it was 2%, and besides, it could also be seen from the figures. So because of these, let me say, different answers to the same or similar questions, my appeal is to take a little bit of account, because it creates really big problems. In this regard, I have prepared some questions, which I believe you will now be able to answer, and the first question is this - in Article 34. The draft budget, you predicted, is later seen by two members, but the article envisions the possibility of additional debt, i.e. giving guarantees for various things, among other things, to ensure financial stability, it later shows that it is 400m euros. So my question is, since I've heard that you as one of the quality of this budget pointed out that you don't want to give guarantees for liquidity financing, can I understand that Article 34 will not apply to the issue of guarantees for the liquidity of public enterprises, so that we stay on the basic claim? I'm simply interested in whether you intend to use this for liquidity or not, to make it clear to us? The second question I have is the question, because when you present the budget and at all when you present the economic policy for the next period, among other things, you said there would have to be a sale of some property, so I'm wondering if you'd be kind enough to tell us what you mean, which would be the sale? Given that questions are very specific, if you know the answer to them, I would ask you to just point them out. If you're not sure, then you're welcome to go into a wider lab. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5277	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5278	At the end of this principle discussion, I would like to thank the MPs who were constructive. Given that there were no more important remarks on the draft budget, I must express my satisfaction that radical change in public finance policy still has the majority support of this parliament. We are aware of the fact that this is not enough and that in the next period we need to do more things to transfer this stability, which we are now introducing into public finances, to a complete economic system. The fact is, by radical measures, first of all on the bulky side of the budget, we'll be able to double-down the budget deficit compared to what we've done. So is this a mathematical operation, the expression that you used? Yes, it is. Each budget is an expression of mathematics, as figures are mentioned in the budget, but is also an expression of a new economic policy, which implies that the truth is not silenced, but that problems are being attacked and solved. In that sense, the reforms you discussed, related to the surplus people in the state apparatus, I said that we would solve this problem when Serbia exits the recession. Yes, Serbia will exit the recession next year, but with a moderate growth of 2%. We have traditionally prepared some billions and 700-800 million dinars in the fund, which is certainly not enough to solve all excess people in the state administration and in the state sector, but it is enough to start the process in 2013 and end it in 2014. So, the reform plan is the beginning of next year, and the end of 2014. It takes two years for this process to end. One of the things that we will discuss this afternoon after this break is the fact that we are limiting the restructuring process of state firms on 30 June 2014, so that the key year, as far as restructuring is concerned, will be what we planned next year, and in 2014 will end. Answer these two specific questions of yours. The 34th member also existed in the previous budget. We left it for similar reasons that were in the previous period, but we narrowed it down, on the one hand, and for a little bit extended, which I will now explain, on the other hand. First, the amount of guarantees given is 300m euros. The original budget was 400, so by amending the government, which arrived a few days before this debate, we reduced it to 300m euros. These guarantees can be used to ensure financial stability, which means intervention in the financial sector exclusively. The explicit answer is that these funds will not be used to provide any guarantees to public enterprises, only if there is a need for the financial sector can be used, in the case of the transfer of deposits, as we have done, from "New Agrobank" to the Postage Savings Bank. If the need for a similar case arises, if some unsecured deposits are to be covered, we have the possibility of doing so if we believe that this will preserve the country's financial stability, as we have succeeded in the transfer of the New Agrobank deposit to the Postage Savings Bank. Also, the classic reason that applies to some possible elemental accidents is as a possibility, because it should always be predicted. What is new is that these guarantees can be used to finance, i.e. to refinance the obligations of local authorities based on capital expenditure from the previous period, because we intend to clean up the delays at all levels and in all areas. Right now, we're going to clean up a good deal of health care late, which we've already talked about, and we're going to talk about in the next few days. Also, part of the debt to the tolls, but there will be an immense delay in local self-government and the province of Vojvodina towards capital investments. On the basis of this article, we will propose a special decision at the government, but I can explain to you what it will look like. So, with October 31st, each municipality and the province of Vojvodina have some debts according to the executed, not paid capital investment works. Some can pay for it, and some can't pay for it. We will enable this article to ensure that next year, if there is a consent of creditors in the private sector and local self-government, that in this way the Republic of Serbia settles the debt, that the Republic of Serbia lends local self-government, or the province for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2015 with a three-year maturity and grace period of one year, that the essential local self-government gives that money back to the Republic in 2014 and 2015, that the amount of individual loans to the municipality and the city cannot be greater than 50% of the transfers during one year, which means that during the return period we will be provided essentially as it returns two-quarters of municipal transfers. Then we issue a government bond based on this member. The bond goes directly to the private sector, which is a trustee of the municipality, i.e. the province. They take a bond, go to the bank, discount, get money immediately, and the municipality returns it to the Republic between 2014 and 2015. The Republic has a guarantee that this money will be charged by not paying any city, giving any municipality more opportunity than the settlement of debts compared to half of the annual transfers, which means that if they do not return that money, then transfers in that amount will be suspended in 2014 and 2015. In other words, it is that we are preparing to lend a loan to the locale, including the province of Vojvodina to settle capital investment debts to the private sector. If the private sector agrees, it concludes an appropriate agreement with the debtor on this and accepts that instead of money it will receive a bond from the Republic of Serbia, which it can cash in the bank. The bank is becoming a trustee. The Republic of Serbia is returning that money to the bank by either paying the money back to the Republic or the Republic suspending the transfer and returning the money to the bank. So we've made a way to, apart from treating the debts of the health system, the debts of the Republic towards the passengers, we have equal treatment of everyone in this chain, including the province of Vojvodina and local self-government. This will be a voluntary program. The municipalities will be able to get into that program if they want to, and if they don't want to, they won't. The private sector will be able to accept it if it wants to, and if it does not, it will not accept it. Anyway, we'll give that option. That is why this article 34 serves. That is explained in the light of this amendment. As for the sale of assets, yes, it is the plan of the Republic of Serbia that, in the next medium term, including next year, it will start to sell state assets that are currently not effectively exploited, or if the state is now making some losses, and there is the possibility that this property will be privatised, or sold, we will go to privatisation, and the privatisation revenues will reduce public debt. There is no way that public debt, which will reach 65% next year at the rate of all this that happened in the previous period, will fall more significantly in 2014 and 2015 without funding part of the reduced budget deficit by revenues from privatisation. That is clear and I have made it completely open and honest in the opening statement itself. What companies are these? These are the ones that are now being held captive and Serbia has little use for, so-called. companies from the Green Pula, agricultural, former agricultural combinations that have failedly been privatized. It's a kind of company. We want to put it into function, that part of the land they held and didn't pay rent, that we give the paors to work on rent and that lease is charged, and what's state property, we sell it literally all of it. The state should not be the owner because it mismanaged all these properties, and this applies even to those for whom people are now praised, which are reportedly well-run, because they are in the restructuring process, or they are not paying any obligations from the past. Generally, the state needs to get out of direct agriculture. It should enable peasants, paors who know how to invest, and the state should help with subsidies and incentives. What can also be the subject of privatisation depends on whether it has an interest. It is of interest that some of the current state-owned factories are privatized and everything we can get the owner who can make better use of these state resources, we will go into the privatisation process. There are several such companies, but until we have a directly expressed concrete interest and until we announce the tender, there's no need to talk about it publicly. Once again in the end, thank you to everyone who will support the budget. We know this is only the beginning of the fight against the economic crisis. This is phase two of fiscal consolidation. That's not even close to over. This is just the beginning, but I think we're getting started, that there's a lot more to do, and there's a lot we can do together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5279	Thank you. Mr. Djuric, I assume you'd like a replica of Mr. Cvetkovic's exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5280	No, it's the Rules of Procedure. You let Minister Dinkic do what he normally does here, especially what he's been doing for the last two days or these two days when we're discussing the budget, allow you to eventually, when practically no longer be able to respond to what he's been talking about, humiliate this parliament and say that everything that we've been doing for two days, all the remarks we've made, dozens of amendments made by the opposition in this parliament, that they are inconclusive and that there have been no more serious criticism of the budget, and then 20 minutes responds to something that is not a serious criticism of the budget for him. Since you've already opened those questions, Mr Dinkic, it's your turn to tell us and how you're going to restructure these companies by 1 June 2014. When you answer to Mr. Cvetkovic or DS, I assume you mean the PKB, which is reportedly not successful today. I agree that it may not be the most favourable model, but then it probably applies to RTB Bor, whom you are so proud of to do a successful job, and among other things you know that he is successful in doing business because he is in restructuring and that none of the remaining liabilities he is 10 or 11 years old does not have to serve and doesn't have to pay. Many of the questions raised by the LDP on Friday, before you caused or participated in that pointless incident with tweets and Twitter, which makes all of Serbia think that we are here all weekend working in a restaurant, and in the evening have managed to fight over social networks, you have not answered the questions whether you accept amendments that say that the DRI should strictly control money or transfers that go towards Kosovo. You only partially answered questions concerning the donation of the National Employment Service. No answer has been asked how you will give up or that you will no longer grant subsidies or guarantees or pay for the maintenance of the current liquidity of "Serbiagas" since 1 January 2013, and today you cannot do so. You didn't even give it through these answers. We can't wait to discuss public enterprises. It will only show how superficial this first, second or third phase of consolidation you're talking about is.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5281	Thank you. Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5282	Those who were in the O.R. Friday heard clearly what I said about RTB Bor. In the first half of next year, 2013, the privatisation process of RTB Bor ends. I even had a chance to read my own statement in the daily newspaper on Saturday. So that's what I publicly said and the press transmitted it. Someone wasn't in the O.R. and he didn't hear, but that's no reason to mention now that I wasn't talking about Bor when I did. Maybe you didn't hear, I don't want to get into it. You may have been there, but you weren't listening, anyway. Mostly RTB Bor will be removed from the restructuring process by mid next year, which means resolving all the complete debts from the previous period. RTB Bor currently pays all taxes, contributions, electricity costs, but it is true that he owes a huge amount of outstanding liabilities from the past and it has to be resolved. The same goes for other companies. I didn't mean the PKK just when I was talking about it. I mean, the Green Pulse. That's what they're called. companies that are united in this Green Pulse. However, it is inefficiently managed and can make far greater offerings if invested in these companies, if equipment is purchased, if irrigation canals are built. In that sense, we want to find the right partners, because it's too big for one to take over, which will essentially give full value to it. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5283	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5284	Madam Chairman, I'm advertising Article 106, please, this has been a classic abuse of reporting by the Rules of Procedure. So, the remark is that the mandated promoter is addressing parliament at the end of the debate in principle and then commenting on what he said, and talking about how he did not respond to some of the amendments submitted. We're just about to have a discussion in detail. Then the minister stands up and responds to the remarks of the Rules of Procedure. Please, I'm against this kind of rules of procedure. I was against it as a people's messenger when it was brought in. He is restrictive and, in my opinion, is not good for keeping the dialogue between the MPs and the authorised promoters, whoever they are, and from the government, but he is who he is. He is who he is, and now he has to be respected. This has really been an absurd situation. A statement by the Rules of Procedure, and then the minister answers, instead of you saying, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. First, it's abuse, fraud of citizens, and then, as a defense of parliament. Well, isn't that also an attack on Parliament's sovereignty, on the importance of parliament, if you're talking about the minister's failure to respond to the amendments and the debate on the amendments hasn't started yet? It'll only be a few days before we finish the principle debate on all the proposals we have on the agenda. Please, I know everything, and tiredness and concentration, but the opposition is right, but what is done is a flagrant example of breaking the Rules of Procedure by those who are calling for the protection of the Rules of Procedure, for protection of their work, and is talking about how some of their rights are compromised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5285	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. You're absolutely right. When I gave my word to Mr. Djuric, I thought he appeared on the basis of a replica of Mr. Cvetkovic's exposure, since he was warned. I didn't break it, you're right, I should have interrupted it. Since we no longer have candidates registered, pursuant to Article 98(4), I am concluding a joint principled single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 2 to 4 of the agenda. Dear People’s MPs, in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraph 1, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the proposals of the action from the agenda of this session to be delivered as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break for an hour. So, now that I'm setting a break for an hour, we'll be back to work at 4:15. (Judita Popovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5286	That is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Madam Chairman, which is what you, in fact, have scheduled for further debate in this House. You can't do that, according to the current Rules of Procedure. That's why I'm calling for article 27. The Rules of Procedure, because it has to be 24 hours from the moment the debate ends in the budget principle, so that we can continue to work in particular. I refer to Article 157(4). A Rules of Procedure that clearly defines how this parliament discusses the budget. In the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Therefore, in no case can we continue the debate at any other point on the Parliament's agenda this afternoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5287	We'll talk about it after the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5288	You know what, it's very important to clear things up when it comes to selective application of any act, law, constitution or Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5289	Mrs. Popovic, I've set a break for an hour. We'll finish it all after the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5290	I'm sorry, you didn't let me use my time for two minutes, so you hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-26-0.u5291	Dear Members of the People, having regard to the provisions of Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that we will continue our work Thursday at 10.00 hours, by discussing the draft budget law for 2013, in particular. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 109 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move on to requesting information and explanations on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has been given to the People's Messenger Neven the Flowering.
