ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3212	I am opening the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 110 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are not present and that there is therefore no quorum needed to determine the agenda. In view of this, and in accordance with Article 88(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly interrupt the work of the National Assembly until the quorum is secured, or by 11.30 p.m. [[After a break.]] I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly in accordance with Article 86(2). Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft law in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of the proposing Dr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business, also attended Vlajko Senic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly need the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts under emergency procedure. The government proposed that the draft law on the acquisition of assets and liabilities of certain banks be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure in order to preserve the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 22 October 2012 (point 1 of the proposed agenda). I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, there are no, no abstentions, no vote – 12, of a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of a public prosecutor in the higher public prosecutor's office in Zajecar, which submitted to the National Assembly on 22 October 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I'm closing the vote and I'm telling you, please repeat the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, there are no, no abstentions, no vote – 131 out of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision on the termination of the public prosecutor's office in the senior public prosecutor's office in Uzic, which submitted to the National Assembly on 22 October 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, there are no, no abstentions, no vote – 141, of a total of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Decision on the Education and Work of the Professional Service of the Trustees for the Protection of Equality and the Internal Planning and Systematization of Jobs in the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, which submitted to the National Assembly on 22 October 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, there are no, no abstentions, no vote – 141, of a total of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, there are none, there are no abstentions, no vote – 18, of a total of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, established the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law on the takeover of property and obligations of certain banks in order to preserve the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. First item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on the takeover of property and obligations of certain banks in order to preserve the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: SNS - one hour, sixteen seconds, and 48 seconds; DS one hour, one minute and 12 seconds; SPS - 30 minutes; DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; United regions of Serbia - 18 minutes; LDP - 16 minutes and 48 seconds; PUPS - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; New Serbia - nine minutes and 36 seconds; Single Serbia – eight minutes and 24 seconds; The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians – six minutes; SP – Democratic Party of Serbia – six minutes; The League of Social Democrats Vojvodina – six minutes; the National Minority Group, People's Party and Rich Serbia - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall by mutual agreement determine a maximum of three participants in the debate who have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them, DS – Teodora Vlahović, SPS – Zoran Kasalović, DSS – Dejan Mihajlov, LDP – Zoran Ostojic, Social Democratic Party of Serbia – Vladimir Martinović, SVM – Zoltan Pek and LSV – Djordje Stojsic. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposing representative, Mladjan Dinkic, the finance and business minister, want a word? Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3213	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 86, paragraphs 3 and 4, Article 87(1), Article 88(2). In Article 86, paragraphs 3 and 4, it is said that – the meeting session session of the National Assembly shall include the day, the session place and the agenda proposal, the time when the session is to be held. The President of the National Assembly in paragraph 4 may postpone the hour, that is, the day of the meeting of the National Assembly, which he shall inform the MPs in good time, by having to explain such a procedure at the beginning of the session. Article 87 of the 1st session of the National Assembly is normally held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, from 10.00 to 18:00 hours. Article 88(2) says – if the president finds that at the beginning of the working day, at least 84 MPs are not present, the start of work is delayed by one hour. In this case today, it was postponed for more than two hours, the session was scheduled to begin at 10, to discuss such an important law, which was sent to parliament by an emergency procedure and which had interrupted already one session, and Parliament's relationship with the ruling majority under this law was not in line with the urgency of adoption of this law, at least as presented in the public. That is why it would be necessary to bring government and parliament's intensities into line in order to avoid confusion and messages being sent to Serbian citizens, which are being sent to parliament. We really want to work, we want to contribute to the better functioning of parliament. Representatives of the opposition SPO parliamentary club... (President: Mr. Jugovic, time is up. )......................................................................................................... and the Democratic Party of Serbia are here and therefore we ask that you do not continue to violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3214	Thank you. To inform you, I have acted in accordance with Article 88(2), which reads: "If the president finds that at the beginning of the working day in the sitting room there are not at least 84 MPs present, the start of work will delay by one hour." In that sense, I delayed the start of work. Of course, today is a specific situation and because of the fog, many MPs have failed to arrive on time. So it's no excuse but just so you know the reasons why they're late. Veroljub Arsic. On what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3215	I'm reporting for the same reason, I'll be brief. It is that worse weather conditions are for travel, it is true... (President: Excuse me, Mr. Arsic, on what basis did you answer? ) According to the Rules of Procedure. (President: Which member, I apologize? ) Article 27. (President: All right, here you go. ) That is true, it is also true that MPs who are in opposition are not obliged to give a ruling majority a quorum for the start of the session, so because of all these problems that have arisen at the beginning of this session, I apologize, in the first place to all citizens, representatives of the government, MPs who came on time. I just want to say that this is not a matter of political nature, but that certain MPs have taken their job perhaps unseriously. The SNS as the largest coalition partner, it certainly has the greatest responsibility for what happened this morning and believe that this problem will be resolved very quickly and that it will never happen again. I would also like to convey the apology of SNS President Alexander Vukic to this event about an hour ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3216	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3217	I'm reporting on Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, because Article 103 states explicitly: "The MP is obliged to indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the President of the National Assembly and to explain what the infringement is, can therefore speak for up to two minutes." After that, paragraph 5 defines: "If he considers that the injury has not been done, the president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation, and if he considers that the injury has been committed, the president of the National Assembly is obliged to remove the injury done." I didn't see you say anything about Mr. Arsic's discussion, or that he was injured by the Rules of Procedure, or that he was not injured by the Rules of Procedure. So in that sense, if we respect the Rules of Procedure, let's also act in accordance with Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3218	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. So the MP, Mr Veroljub Arsic, gave a member by whom the injured Rules of Procedure, however, did not give an adequate explanation for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I felt I could not give an explanation. Thank you. Does the proposing official, Minister Mladjan Dinkic, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Dinkich.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3219	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is not a common law before you, because the Law on the acquisition of property and obligations of certain banks in order to preserve the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia is certainly not one of the usual laws that this assembly adopts. This law has been extorted by the huge failures of state authorities in the previous period in relation to work, management and supervision in some state banks. The goal is to save the deposits of citizens, businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, so that the damage to the financial system will not be greater. With this law, we are actually trying to reduce otherwise the already enormous damage caused by the poor work of state authorities in the previous period, primarily the National Bank of Serbia as an institution that is obliged to control the work of all banks in Serbia, which has made cardinal failures. Then, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Finance in the previous meeting, which has already spent huge taxpayers' money with no effect, because today we are talking about a law that needs to save what can be saved in one of the biggest financial scandals in Serbia's newest history in our banking sector, because it is a clear loss of taxpayers, citizens, in this case at least 600m euros. So it's a minimal loss that has already been suffered, and this law should prevent that loss from being greater. I'll explain what's going on, and I'll explain it very chronologically. As you know, the NBS is required to supervisor all banks in Serbia on a regular basis and to inform shareholders of these banks, in the case of private banks, then private shareholders, in the case of state banks, the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia. In the case of Agrobank, there may have been a lot of talk, but I don't think there's enough talk. We're talking about the purely economic, legal side of this case. Agrobank was one of the banks that was not often controlled, although the central bank should control all banks in Serbia regularly. The NBS control in detail was carried out late in 2011, in the first half of 2011, and the control report was inadequate. Here's the thing. The control of Agrobank from the first half of 2011 found that Agrobank did not have sufficient capital under the Bank Act, that instead of 12% of the capital ratio, the ratio was only 0.75%, i.e. Agrobank capital in mid-2011 was only about six million euros, and to cover all the discounts they had then had had to have at least 150m euros. So six million against the needed 150m euros under the Banks Act. The central bank therefore introduces temporary measures into Agrobank and then a forced administration. The failure, however, consists of the fact that the report, proved very quickly, as incorrect, since Agrobank unfortunately did not have a positive capital of sixm euros, but the forced administration quickly found that the capital was negative at 300m euros. So the failure of the central bank was only 306m euros, I say everything, because it simply can't be explained, a mistake can be made in an analysis, but for 306m euros to make a failure, it's absolutely impossible. In other words, from one analysis in the same year that found the lack of capital, but found that the alleged positive capital of Agrobank was six million, a few months later it was determined that it was actually negative 300 million, and it needed to be plus 150 million. So, a 450m-euro hole, from minus 300 to needed plus 150. What was the Serbian Government doing then when she received this report from the Central Bank? First, she was supposed to pass the law we're making today. She was supposed to react with the Law on Transferment of Parts of Assets and Obligations of the then Agrobank to one of the recipient banks that would voluntarily take over the property for reasons not to spend extra taxpayers' money. A cardinal mistake was made which, instead of doing so, waited another four or five months, the old Agrobank was closed, a new bank formed, as they called it, for special purposes. However, only 90m euros were put into the bank, fivem euros in fresh money, and only 85m euros in bonds. The bank had a 450-dollar dubiosis. She tried to save herself with an inadequate amount. It just actually put the problem off. What's the matter? The finance ministry may not have known what was going on in Agrobank until the Central Bank report. So she really couldn't, and she didn't have to know, even though she had her own representatives on the Governing Board of Agrobanks. At the time, the state was only 20% owner of the Agrobank, but through state representatives they could have had a status. The responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and the previous government arises at the time when they received the Central Bank's report, even if the first one, which pointed to the group, at least according to their first report, so instead of 150, there were six million, they were supposed to react, and let alone when they received an additional report from the forced manager, that it was actually minus 300 million. It was only then that she had to have a quick reaction. Instead, pressures were made even by the Central Bank's supervisory to hide it and not to show that it was a 300m-euro dubioza and this whole problem was pushed under the carpet. There were elections and apparently no one wanted to solve the problem, because it would be very uncomfortable before the elections to announce what was going on and to examine the responsibility of both the responsible people in the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance, or the Government, who were in charge of the case. Instead, it forms so-called. "New Agrobank". It was formed on 25 May this year with fivem euros in cash and 85m euros in bonds, plus they sought and received a loan from the 25m-euro Deposit Insurance Agency and an NBS liquidity loan from an additional two billion dinars. So 20m euros in liquidity loans. At that time, it was estimated that there were charges of around 300m euros or 32 billion dinars. However, as time went by, "New Agrobank" lost 2m euros each month, went further into losses. Turns out, even in this "New Agrobanks", where they were allegedly transferred by the government to healthy placements, 80% of the loans were non-paymentable. Let me remind you, gentlemen Members of Parliament, the average rate of non-payment loans in the Serbian banking system is below 20% and significantly below 20% if the case of "New Agrobank" and "Vojvodine Development Bank" is excluded, which have an unusually high degree of credit default, "New Agrobank" 80%, and "Vojvodine Development Bank" of as much as 75% of non-refundable loans. In other words, these two banks are ruining the average Serbian banking system. However, it is good that neither one of these two banks is a system bank and it is good that the key banks in our system are healthy, strong, strong and strong capital and it is good that this was not the result of a bad system, but rather the result of the abuse of poor governance and the irresponsibility of the competent state authorities, particularly the supervision of the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance in the previous meeting. So this was the condition we found when the new Government of the Republic of Serbia was formed. Why did we propose to pass this law on an emergency procedure with a session interruption, I'll explain it to you. I apologize also to the MPs for having a relatively short deadline for reading this law, but the reasons are very important. First, the new government of the Republic of Serbia had three options ahead. Of the 250m euros in savings stakes, as currently in "New Agrobank", there were around 250m euros in secured deposits left. The secured deposits are the ones the state guarantees. These are stakes up to 50,000 euros individually. These are the roles of citizens and these are deposits of trade, small and medium-sized enterprises. A total of such depositors whose deposits are secured currently have about 250,000 in "New Agrobank". So there are currently 250,000 deposits in the New Agrobank. The problem is that half the stakes are saved next week in the so-called. "Sunday of Savings," because a year ago, Agrobank gave extremely high interest rates to citizens to pass on savings to her. The interest was 6% to 7% on the annual level. My second recommendation to citizens is never to choose a high-interest bank to invest their savings, but to choose safe banks, because essentially within a week when it saves "New Agrobanks" to raise their stakes, reaching around 125m euros in the coming week. "New Agrobank" with only tenm euros in liquid assets would not be able to pay for it. The bank would go bankrupt and panic. Just to prevent this situation, we decided to pass a law like this and transfer all the secured and unsecured deposits to a bank that was interested in it, and that's the Post Office as the most stable state bank where the state is 100% owner, because it owns 97%, and 3% are small shareholders. We can say that the state is almost 100% owner of the Post Office. What options were in front of the new Ministry of Finance? One option is to let go, not to pass this law and watch the bankruptcy. The bankruptcy would have been forced by the fact that "New Agrobank" would not have been able to pay for the savings to citizens, either institutionally, since the National Bank of Serbia also announced the withdrawal of the work permit "New Agrobanks" in November of the month, since the indicators were not in line, or the National Bank of Serbia addressed the Ministry of Finance a month ago with the question - since the Government of the Republic of Serbia became 100% owner of the "New Agrobank", what are you going to do with that bank? For the bank to become adequate in the banking system, the need for capitalisation is about 230m euros. We have, of course, analysed the situation and decided that there is absolutely no point in putting 230m euros of additional taxpayers' money into the bank of a completely destroyed image, reputation, because it is absolutely impossible, after the financial scandals that took place in it, to recover it, and the cost would be, in addition to 100m euros, how much the previous government has already given, another 230m euros with a completely uncertain outcome or certain outcome and further problems in that bank. The second option was bankruptcy. The total bankruptcy of "New Agrobank" would mean the following – these 250m euros in secured deposits, by law, the state guarantees and they would be paid. All citizens who had secured deposits, any savings, whether small and medium-sized enterprises, would get their money, but this would mean a lasting outflow of money from the Deposit Insurance Agency. A permanent outflow of 250m euros. On the other hand, all unsecured deposits would go bankrupt. This means that even that small part of the chargeable loans, and they are about 65m euros, would immediately arrive and also all the unsecured deposits of different institutions would simply go into bankruptcy and a very small part would be charged, given that only 20% of the total New Agrobank credit portfolio is even charged. It's 80 percent non-refundable, which means he's in bankruptcy, you can see that you can't get God knows what. What's worst is most of the bad credits were paid in 2010 and 2011. So these aren't historical loans, these aren't loans from, I don't know, 2004, 2005, 2006. Most of the unsecured, I would say politically motivated loans, dating back to 2010 and 2011, have some since 2009, but are mainly from 2010 and 2011. So, just before this problem was even noticed. In two years, this bank has been completely destroyed. Of course, there is the responsibility of former Agrobank shareholders, because they were shareholders until May of this year. A 450m-euro hole occurred during a period when private shareholders were 80% co-owners in Agrobanka. It is the fact and responsibility of the representatives of these shareholders also exists, but also the responsibility of the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance when it received information about the problems. In short, I would like to explain the transaction that will take place if the National Assembly adopts this law. On Saturday, after we expect the law to be passed on Friday, an extraordinary cabinet session was planned to confirm the agreement to transfer all deposits of "New Agrobank" to the Postage Savings Bank on Saturday. So it's a total of 250m euros in secured deposits and over 150m euros in unsecured deposits, so over 400m euros will be transferred to the Postanska Savings Bank. However, the Post Office will be fully provided with appropriate funds. First, for secured deposits. 250m euros in cash from the Deposit Insurance Agency will be transferred to the Postage Savings Bank, covering all these secured deposits. In addition, these bonds, which already aired by the previous government of the Republic of Serbia, amounting to 85m euros, or ten billion dinars, will be transferred. One part of the exposure, about 60 exposures, total value of around 10m euros, will be transferred to 65m euros in remunerated loans, which are well provided. Thus, the amount of deposits transferred to the Postage Savings Bank will be fully secured with liquid assets, cash, bonds and chargeable claims. So the essentially complete balance of the Post Office savings bank will thus be well secured and closed. Of course, we've been looking into the last month and a half since we've been informed by the Central Bank that we're about to withdraw permission to work on the New Agrobank, what is the effect of the transfer to the Postage Savings. After the analysis, we've established that the Post Office can easily accept this operation. For the reason that today's capital ratio is 29% and the legal minimum is 12%. So they're far, twice the limit. With this operation, the Post Office will have a balance sheet amount of around 765m euros, currently 358m euros. So, the Post Office will increase the client base. It will have 60 new exposures, will have a total deposit of 624m euros and will accept 300 workers of the existing "New Agrobank". The capital adequacy rate of the Post Office, after this transaction, will remain above 20%, compared to the 12% legal minimum. This means that no capitalisation of the Post Office will be required. With that in mind, 250,000 New Agrobank depositors will solve their problems, because on Saturday, along with this contract, all depositors' databases will be transferred, both citizens and businesses. So as of Monday, they will all be able to freely play their roles in the Post Office, as this operation is being prepared for the last few weeks, only to be activated after this law, by the government's decision and by signing an appropriate contract. I must say that when we faced the problem, we consulted on everything, primarily with experts and new management of the NBS, but also with the IMF Mission. Why? Because this isn't a simple operation and because we wanted to be 100% sure of the success of the operation. We are convinced that this is a 100 percent good solution in a situation like this, an extortional situation. We wish this situation hadn't happened, but we found that condition and the only possible reaction was this. These laws have been passed in some other countries. Unfortunately, in Serbia they are not brought about by the consequences of the global financial crisis, but because of the bad human factor, bad policy, I would say even bad professions, when we talk about the Central Bank's supervisory work for Agrobank. I can't believe Central Bank supervisors didn't see this. The only thing I can imagine is that they kept quiet when they were politically pressured by the government not to talk about this. But that doesn't upset them with responsibility. If you're an expert, you have to tell the truth no matter what political pressures there is. This way, we're just reducing one big financial standard that happened irrevocably in our system. We're preventing it from spreading to the rest of the banking system. I must say, given the situation in Vojvodina Development Bank and the findings of the Central Bank and the IMF regarding this institution, the recommendation of the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank, the owner of the Vojvodina Development Bank, which is the province government, was to do this same operation. Or, that all deposits, secured and unsecured, in Vojvodina Development Bank, which has 240m euros, 140m euros are secured, 100m are unsecured, to transfer to one of the recipient banks, which would take over those deposits. In order for this transaction to be done, it was necessary to find the recipient banks, along with the Central Bank, that there were several banks, which are domestic, which are foreign, which are interested in taking over these deposits. Of course, without a catastrophic credit portfolio of 75% uncharging loans. We offered the province government to intervene for these unsecured deposits by issuing additional bonds of 100m euros, half-half, Republic 50, District 50, even though colleagues from the province own 80% of the bank and the Republic only 20%. The province's government's stance is not to accept the proposal, but to capitalise the Vojvodine Development Bank with an additional 150m euros. Such a request came yesterday to the finance ministry and the Central Bank, to allow additional capitalisation of the 150m-euro Vojvodina Development Bank. We gave our opinion, from the aspect of the Public Debt Act. This is possible, there is a legal basis for the province's government to issue bonds of 15 billion dinars and thus to reach the necessary level of capital adequacy, which it should have according to indicators from the National Bank of Serbia. At the same time, we expressed the view, the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia and the IMF, that this is economically unwarranted. Several recapitalisations of the Vojvodina Development Bank have already been carried out at 150m euros and would now add another 150m euros, this time completely to the expense of the province's citizens, as this would be the sole emissions of the province's government. We believe that it is pointless, economically wrong and that it is far cheaper for both the province and the Republic of Serbia, the whole people, that the "Vojvodine Development Bank" should be put in place, in this way, to transfer deposits, to save and secure and unsecured deposits, but to put a credit portfolio that is inaccessible where it belongs, which is in bankruptcy, because after the transfer of deposits from "New Agrobank" to the Postage Savings, "New Agrobank" goes into bankruptcy. Of course, the province government can decide to capitalise on the bank and that's the right of the AP Vojvodina. We will not dispute that right, but then it will be responsible for the further development of that bank. Recapitalizing a bank with 300m euros, which has 75% of uncharging loans, is insane. Once again, I ask the provincial prime minister, the finance secretary, that regardless of having received formal consent to do so in accordance with the Public Debt Act, to change their minds and to prevent further agony from the "Vojvodine Development Bank" to solve in one move the problems of the two state banks that have come into this situation because of poor leadership, poor governance, poor placements, due to financial scandals. However, this law makes it possible to save the deposits of all state banks if the problem arises. At this point, the problem is in these two banks. I don't want to be silent about it, because as the new finance minister, I don't want to take responsibility for the previous mistakes. However, we have prepared a rescue operation guaranteeing the rescue of all citizens' deposits, all municipalities that have deposits in both these banks. I'm not getting into why Belgrade holds deposits at the Vojvodina Development Bank, and why the Vojvodina Forests hold deposits in Agrobanka. I'm not going in any of the municipalities where he keeps his deposits. We want to save everything, by the same criteria, because we think we need to preserve the stability of the financial system and I urge that in the future, after we finish this operation, politics really gets out of the profession when it comes to banks, because banks can't be played. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3220	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Olgica Batić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3221	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first the representative of the Government said – this is all, it's just not the usual law. I'll agree it's not common, because it's catastrophic, because it's unconstitutional. In particular, Article 3 refers to its unconstitutional nature where it is said that the acquisition under this law is not subject to the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, the Deposit Insurance Act and the Bank Liquidation and Insurance Companies Act. No matter what this proposal for a law on the Committee has been adopted on constitutional matters and legislation, then MPs, you feel free to submit drafts of the law, exempt from the application of any law, and may your proposal also be accepted, so that this is not the only precedent and not be the only exception. Such a law makes no sense to bring unrest into the banking sector of Serbia, by humiliating the independence of the NBS. Namely, the Law on National Banks is prescribed that the NBS controls the business of banks, both the legality of business and the value of business. Article 102 The law on banks is exactly what's prescribed. According to this elemental principle, the NBS itself prescribes closer conditions regarding the way in which that control is carried out. It is also the NBS that so far as it finds that the relevant bank does not have a credit rating, if it finds that it is undercapitalised, or if it finds that it has risky placements, and especially if it finds that the bank poses a threat to the stability of the financial system, it is the National Bank that can take any measures, and these measures are from a simple warning to a literal emergency administration in a particular bank. When all of this is in mind, and all of this is written in the Banks Act, whose application is conducted by the NBS itself, then it is quite clear that such a single bill destroys independence primarily of the NBS, because what is prescribed as its elemental obligation, which is an obligation to control the credits of banks, will now be done by the Government, and that means that it will be done by Minister Dinkic. This is how these perfided methods of Minister Dinkic are taken away from the power of the National Bank, because if the ministers are involved in the business of the National Bank by making this law a practical double of powers, it is certainly by means of a bill of law that doubles, then it is a very ugly business, because what the National Bank should decide on will now be decided by the finance minister. The competencies are, of course, doubled because the NBS can impose a forced payment, and the Republic of Serbia already guarantees deposits, so if that is the case, and the birds on the branch know that this is exactly how I listed it, then the introduction of this system that is proposed will not know who drinks or who pays, they will absolutely not know anything, because the ministers will be able to take measures towards the bank, or to put out any bank if they so wish. A broad diazepa of abuses, which Mladjan Dinkic left to him by known financial experts, is clearly seen from this bill, as the introduction provision of this law states that banks will be taken over when there is a serious threat to the stability of the financial system. In this regard, I ask questions – what is stability of the financial system and where does it say? What is a threat to stability and where does it say? What is a serious threat to seriousness, and by what law is it defined? Who's estimating this stability? Who's going to assess the threat? Who's going to judge that the threat is serious or unserious? And finally, who guides this threat, serious or unserious, and whom does it guide? It is a vain attempt to answer these questions, because the answers are impossible. It shows that the application of this law will be such a barber of the finance minister, because if the finance minister says something is unstable, then we all need to believe it's unstable. If the threat is a threat, then it is a threat, and if it is a serious threat, of course it is a serious threat, yes. Where it says it's serious and how we're going to check it out and whether it's a threat or just a minister's will, we won't know, because this law doesn't offer criteria or measure any definition. After all, I wonder what kind of engineer assesses the stability of finance, and by what criteria does it evaluate them? We know what stability means, we know what it is measured, but who measures it in Serbia, the stability of the financial system and what measure? If we just look around and around, then we'll hear where different economic analysts can't agree on what stability is, and what instability is and what is the limit between it. It says there is no legal definition of stability, and if there is no stability, and the law stipulates that the condition for the bank's takeover is this very serious threat to the instability I was talking about, then it is clear to all of us that this law says – it will be taken over by the bank that Mladjan Dinkic wants to take over. Far from being the only problem here and this proposed law. I have a few questions for Minister Dinkic. Does he know that bank control can only be performed by the NBS? Does he know that this control cannot be done by the government and that the government has no right to exercise that control? Furthermore, does he know that even if he is a finance minister, he cannot enter the banks and ask them – excuse me, are you stable or are you perhaps unstable, are you a serious threat or perhaps not a serious threat, but can only be independent NBS officers? If that is the case and if it is clear that the executive authority cannot collect data on it, then the issue is even clearer – how will the government and Minister Dinkic, without such and such information, assess which bank is a serious threat, which is inconclusive? The answer is self-inflicted. The government could only do so if the National Bank had just given it data on credit and business, and that is exactly what it seems to me that Dinkic's proposals are not so good, because what he has proposed can only be done by the NBS, and the government and ministers as executive powers never, ever, in any civilized state, and there are such in both Europe and the world. We're the exception, I guess. If government officials can't control banks, how will they know if they're a threat to the stability of the bank? I also suggest that the DHSS already know its position in advance on this bill, and of course it will not vote in favour of this bill. But what's also interesting is that this bill gives Mladjan Dinkic the rights to himself six times the rights that the NBS has. Now he can attach and separate the banks, as he pleases – here he can merge, there he can separate, he can call for some stability, some kind of threat, some sort of seriousness or indifference, and then he can drown five banks into a single bank, and that wouldn't surprise us. Then finally we ask ourselves, and the famous question arises: Where is the money, where have they gone? I can't believe some people can believe what the finance minister just said. I urge all MPs to seriously consider what they are now doing and what they will do about such a bill. At this point, Minister Dinkic manages the Tax Administration, manages public finances, manages customs, manages payment traffic, manages the budget, manages state subsidies, tourism, precious metals, and now man wants to manage banks, of course, also wants to manage these banks, wants to manage everything. It's nice what you want to do, those who support this bill and meet it, but when you give it and when you empower it to have control over it, you will soon become its slaves. On this proposal, DHSS and SPO have submitted amendments aimed at preventing such nepotism by the finance minister. The finance minister initially said that he actually appeared as a lifeguard and formulated that he wanted to save us. To save what can be saved. We know here how you saved banks. We know how you saved your savings. We don't doubt your love for each other, you're well acquainted with it, and especially citizens are familiar with the opportunity you loved, for example, the National Savings Bank, so I'm justifiably afraid in advance of the collapse of the Post Office. You spoke and all along you respected that the previous government was guilty of everything and all the previous governments before this were guilty of everything. In most of these, you were sitting right there. Why, then, when you mention salvation and as the savior of the entire financial sector of the state of Serbia and beyond, why didn't you save four banks from being shut down, those affairs that your name is mentioned for? Why did you participate in the destruction of the National Savings Bank? What about the Cypriot money, against which Vladan Batic and DHSS filed a criminal report and under the criminal charges is a pre-criminal case, because the deputy prosecutor for organised crime in five years makes a very deep shop, imagine, writes a memo. It takes five years to write a memo. Remember the activity, all those criminal activities of the NVV bank, through which G 17 plus was laundering money. Remember the sale "Mobtel", owned by Bogoljub Karic. Remember the Euro-Asciz Bank, so remember the Sartid and Fancira affair. I ask you a question – why didn't you answer as the savior of all these affairs? In all of this, the denominator has only one name and is now responding to yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3222	Dear MPs, since it is full of speakers, Minister Dinkic wants a word. I'll delete the list, and I'll ask you to call back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3223	I'm sorry you didn't read the law and what you're saying by heart, because if you read Article 2 you'd see that it's impossible to execute this transaction unless the Central Bank of Serbia, or the NBS, gives consent. Of course, all banks in Serbia are controlled by the NBS. Do you think we could know the state of the New Agrobank, at Vojvodina Development Bank, that the Central Bank hasn't informed us about it since we're shareholders in those two banks? If you'd read the Banks Act, you'd know that in the event of a problem at any bank, the Central Bank is obliged to inform shareholders. Whether it's a private shareholder, whether it's a state, it doesn't matter. The Republic of Serbia is a 100% shareholder in the New Agrobank, and I think there is 23% in Vojvodina Development Bank. From there we know that data from the supervisory sector, because the Central Bank has informed us that it intends to withdraw the work permit from both these two banks. They asked us, "What will you do about it?" Do you want to do anything? In other words, why am I reporting to the congregation? Because at this point, I'm the finance minister. If you read the Government Act, the finance minister is responsible for the state's stakes in all banks, insurance companies, and that's the job of the finance minister. I'm not responsible for private actions in private banks. We are also responsible for the stability of the entire financial system, primarily the Central Bank, and the Government and the Ministry of Finance for the payment of secured deposits in the event of bankruptcy. God forbid any bank goes bankrupt, the state must pay up to 50,000 euros to all savings. Of course, it would have been easier if I hadn’t shown up in this congregation and hadn’t proposed this law to the congregation. What would happen? The "New Agrobank" would go bankrupt next week, the state would pay off the 250m euros from the Deposit Insurance Agency and of course it wouldn't be the fault of a new set in the new government, as it is known when the problem happened – in the period of the previous government. It's irresponsible, it's politics and that's what you do. If we don't intervene, and the only one who can intervene is the Ministry of Finance in the Government, if we want to intervene, with the initiative and consent of the NBS. We wrote this law together. This law wasn't just done by the Treasury. We, together with the Central Bank, have made this bill, because we all know that bankruptcy in this situation could cause any bank in Serbia to have a chain reaction and a deposit attack. There's no reason to go and ask to raise deposits in other banks, because these two cases are isolated, fortunately. That's what's important to say. We have a good financial system, but we've had bad governance in two banks. I can't put all the blame on the state as far as Agrobanks are concerned, because 80% were private owners, until the moment the dubiosis was established. However, the state has had significant interference, which is now evident from this whole abuse investigation. You've got some incorrect information. Why didn't we save four major state banks? Because it then cost four billion dollars, or 30% of Serbia's GDP. Our evaluation and evaluation of the IMF at the time was that it was pointless, to give 30% of the GDP to save banks that had failed long before. National savings haven't been destroyed. You've made a mistake. It was sold at a price three times the value of the capital to Greece's "EFG" bank, in a transparent process in the public tender. I know you're a politician and you have the right to say everything you think, but these are serious topics, serious things. You have the right to do that. What you said about me wanting to run "New Agrobank," you see, here you go, there's the whole "New Agrobank," doing with it whatever you want. If you think it's luck to solve that problem, you're wrong. It's a big problem we want to solve. I'm just asking for seriousness in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3224	Olga Batic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3225	First, I have to tell Mr. Dinkic I read the law very well. I'm a lawyer, a lawyer by profession, and I'm sure, since you're an economic expert, I read better than you, and I'm better at interpreting the law. I've read Article 2 very well, I've read Article 1 and Article 2 very well, but I'm going to talk about it at some other time, and of course I'm going to launch an initiative to examine all the criminal activities of the Development Fund. I'm very serious about this subject and I'm serious about where I sense that there is a possibility of abuse and that there is a possibility of carrying out any criminal activities and their cover-up. Since you're arguing to me that I've read this law at all, and I've read it looks better than you do, so I've seen the financial resources you're predicting here, which are abnormal but nothing weird for you, it's always millions of people, it would be best, in any case, because you respect me for not reading this law, that I'll never be as good a legal expert as you are a good economic expert that you've shown since 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3226	The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3227	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will present the views of our SVM parliamentary group on the issue of the proposal for a law on the takeover of property and certain banks in order to preserve the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. We've heard that unfortunately we've had an affair called the so-called affair. "Agrobank" and how it was done, that one "New Agrobank" was formed somewhere in May this year. Unfortunately, after five months, this bank came in the same case as the old Agrobank. It's before bankruptcy and bankruptcy. With this law, as we've heard, we're going to put out the fires, sort of correct the wrong drones that have been passed, and by this law we're giving the possibility of a more stable bank taking over the assets and liabilities of a bank that is in front of bankruptcy or bankruptcy. This is about all the property and all the debt and liabilities. Article 1 also states that it can also be a partial takeover of property and liabilities. If we look at the very fact that with this law, unfortunately, we will not avoid bankruptcy or bankruptcy of the New Agrobank, the government thinks that citizens and businessmen will not lose confidence in the financial system find countries as a strong bank assumes obligations according to the deposits of a bank. I hope we're talking about all the deposits here, not just citizens' deposits, but business deposits. Unfortunately, this law, as my colleague said, and we think it's against Article 3 of some of the laws temporarily puts it out of force. With this law, we're going to make some precedent case to get into practice with one bank, so unfortunately we're going to enforce this law with other banks, as we heard from Mr. Minister, that we have another or two banks that are unfortunately with political qualities and bad plasmas ruined. Since I spent 25 years as a banker thinking a little bit as a banker and not a politician, and as I heard from Mr. Minister, unfortunately, I am sure that the Post Office of New Agrobank will only take over those claims that are remunerated. So the risk claims won't. She's staying at the New Agrobank. He'll take over part of the property. These are certainly facilities and buildings with technical equipment, with an IPI network that is at the best locations in the cities of the entire territory of Serbia, I am sure of it. I hope they'll also take over the agreed deposits. Here we think of deposits by sight and by hand deposits of citizens and businesses. I think they'll take over both dinar and foreign security deposits. The question arises – what will happen to risk placements, other assets, other objects that are not very attractive and what will happen to the workers of this bank? That's one of the important questions. If part of the assets and part of the bank's liabilities are taken away, this bank will go bankrupt. The question arises – what will happen to small shareholders, because unfortunately so-called The little shareholders of the old Agrobank haven't been compensated yet? With this takeover of "New Agrobank" what about shareholders, if there are any, "New Agrobank"? I know from practice that next week, the end of October, so on. The weeks of savings, as we heard from the minister that the savings would be forced on the exposures or would be forced into New Agrobank's exhibits now at the Post Office to get their money out, what they had done a year ago with so-called. Good interest. I hope that all these contractual interest commitments will be respected, that they will pay off the savings or possibly new savings there to arm their funds. I'd like to ask you a few more questions. I suppose, but unfortunately, it's not written or defined in the law that if you take one part of an active bank you should also take a piece of the passport. When I take over the property, here I was talking about equipment and buildings, my question is – will the property being taken over as an investment investment or a underlying asset? If it is taken over as a basic asset, then the question is asked – at what price, at the book value or at the market price? That should be assessed by an independent appraiser. In this law, unfortunately, it's not defined. Only one procedure has been defined. The procedure is called a takeover contract. It's not exactly defined how to do it. If we look at Article 7 which is written like this – the takeover is done without the consent of shareholders of depositors and other creditors, i.e. debtors of banks participating in the takeover, the question arises – will shareholders, other shareholders or small shareholders be asked? They will not be seen at all, the decisions of the parliament of these banks will not be taken into account – who will protect the constitutional right of small shareholders and the constitutional right of the shareholder society itself. Why won't the Act of Forced Action be applied, so small shareholders can be compensated at these banks, since we know that in the Agrobank affair, small shareholders are still not compensated? If that's how we look at this law of the state, it's only saving its investment, and it doesn't take care of the other owners of the bank. You all know well, if one bank or some organization is doing business with a profit, then they all share a dividend. If it's a loss, then that loss won't be shared by everyone. This law gives the National Bank the power to decide which banks can be easily taken over. As Article 2 requires a positive opinion of the National Bank on this takeover procedure. Who's going to control the National Bank, not come back to that case, like we had the Agrobank affair? Unfortunately, we have a lot of open questions left in this law, lots of holes. We're not just talking about 230m-euro holes in a bank. Unfortunately, we have two more banks that have been ruined by political decisions and bad placements. I'd like to go back to the law one more time. Unfortunately, this law does not have a duration and there is a possibility that the executive power can nationalise banks. I'd ask one more question, and that's the question of shareholders' rights, and what about employees' rights in these banks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3228	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3229	I'll take the opportunity to respond to your dilemmas. This law cannot allow banks to nationalise, as it applies only to state banks. State banks can't nationalize, again, if they're already state-owned. On the contrary, without this law, the previous government has nationalized this Agrobank. She didn't need any law, as you saw, because private shareholders owned 80% of the Agrobank, suddenly the state became 100% owner. The question of the New Agrobank shareholders doesn't exist. The only shareholder of the New Agrobank is the government, the state. The government of the Republic of Serbia is 100% owner of the "New Agrobank". The question referred to in Articles 7 and 8. - Why did we predict this quick procedure? If we were to go through the regular procedure, to declare the depositors, the shareholders' assembly, the depositary bank, it takes a month, three weeks in the shortest case. The bank would go bankrupt next week. We don't have time. This allows for an urgent transaction to be made to reduce any risk and to maintain trust. It's the only and only reason why these procedures are shortening. Considering that it's only done when it comes to state-owned banks that are receiving it. The private banks won't accept it until they get the board's consent. Of course, we don't suspend those rights. These rights remain with state banks where we are like the Republic of Serbia, or the state, owner and then predict an accelerated procedure. As for the situation that the recipients of the private bank, we do not go into their procedures and it is clear that in the event of a takeover, by private banks, deposits, they would carry out their regular procedures if they were market interested in taking over those deposits. Considering that the Post Office is 97% state-owned, and 3% are small shareholders. It is possible that small shareholders, once the deposits of "New Agrobanks" are transferred, may disagree. We give them the opportunity under the Company Act to buy out their actions at the proper price prescribed by the law. Therefore, these 3% of small shareholders in the Postage Savings Bank will have the right to request after this transaction that their actions be purchased by the State at the appropriate price prescribed. We have the money provided in the budget for that purpose. So they can ask for it now, and they can do it after surgery. So, they're completely free to choose whether they want these actions to stay in the Post Office or those 3% of the shareholders can ask for ransom. The state will pay them off immediately. We already have that money in the budget for this year. You asked the question – why is part of the passport being transferred? Maybe you didn't get a good chance to study it. It was a short time ago. The whole band is transferred, the whole band, the 100 percent passage. So, and secured deposits, and unsecured deposits, and citizens' deposits, business deposits, small and medium-sized enterprises, large, municipalities, funds, everything that exists on the side of the Passive is being transferred. Given that there is not enough liquid assets currently in Nova Agrobanka, because there are these 100m euros in bonds, then the state has to add another 250m euros from the Deposit Insurance Agency to ensure that the Post Office, while accepting a complete passport, has a 100 per cent coverage in the activity. Of course it saves the New Agrobanks to raise their money on Monday. They'll get as much as they want. Why? Because the Post Office will receive full cash from the Deposit Insurance Agency worth 250m euros, the amount of deposits secured. If someone wants to raise it on the same day, or depends on the amount, then they can lift it on the same day. It's a question of full liquidity coverage and this way we ensure full stability from one situation that would occur if we didn't do this, and that is that if there were no law, if there were no transfer to the Postage Savings, if there were no intervention from the Deposit Insurance Agency, savings would come next week. A number of them would knock on closed counters, as only 10m euros could be paid out of the current liquidity of this "New Agrobank". By adding 250m euros in cash to the Post Office's savings bank, the Post Office can immediately pay off and whoever wants to raise their money from Monday. However, the Post Office is a stable bank. My recommendation is that people don't have to raise money, let them look, let them lift, when they see that they can lift, why would they lift more, they can leave it at the Post Office, because the Post Office has exposures in all Serbian cities. In this way, it will have about 60 more exposures, an extremely high capital ratio. That's why we chose the Post Office for this transaction, and she was self-interested. What's very important, the whole procedure cannot be initiated by the Ministry of Finance. So there's no concern that the Treasury is launching these procedures. On the contrary, it is the Central Bank that initiates the process. We cannot know what the situation is in some banks until we are informed by the National Bank of Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia does not inform us about the situation in foreign banks, private banks, but it informs us about the situation in banks where the state is a shareholder, which is completely natural, and then the government makes decisions depending on these notifications. There's been an announcement about the New Agrobank bankruptcy that's being prepared in the coming period. So, the deadline for achieving capital adequacy for "New Agrobank" expires in the second half of November, but the National Bank warned us that "New Agrobank" has no liquidity to pay off in a week. We were informed a month and a half ago, and then we set out to prepare a plan to save citizens' deposits, businesses from New Agrobank. This is actually the law on saving deposits from troubled state banks. This applies only to state banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3230	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3231	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected members of the Ministry of Industry and Finance in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, given the importance of the stability of the financial system and the banking system in the Republic of Serbia, supports the adoption of such a law, especially when we have information that as many as 250,000 deposits stored in New Agrobanks can come into question. These are not just citizens' deposits, they are deposits of micro-small and medium-sized enterprises. I feel free to say that letting this problem run down the water or letting "New Agrobank" go into some kind of bankruptcy could seriously endanger the flow of our country's economic and economic system. Resolute Minister Dinkic and the proposal of the Ministry of Economy and Finance do not support them to control money or to control the work of banks in which the state has any stake or involvement, we support this move solely because the ministry has shown in this way that it wants to solve problems that have accumulated. What's alarming is that this problem with "New Agrobank" has arisen because of the human factor and most of the other problems that are related to the public sector, state-owned enterprises and wherever the state is involved are related precisely to poor management, poor governance and profession that is not applied in accordance with new and modern standards. Since we're going to meet a week of savings, and the New Agrobank, as we heard, could not finance the commitments on Monday, this is how we solve the problem of secure but unsecured deposits. Even 125m euros in savings and armed funds will be charged next week. I can't imagine a situation where the savings and depositors would come to raise this money in accordance with the law and according to their rights. This law requires what I can say, and it exists in developed countries, in the United States, in Canada, in EU countries, even in this model, when it comes to helping intervention when it comes to problematic banks, it exists, has been operated and implemented in Croatia, Turkey and in some other countries in the region. But, as the resolution minister said, they had a problem of another nature, they had a problem with bank liquidity, a problem with bank insolvency, and we have that problem, as the World Bank methodology says in this case, a problem of fraud and embezzlement when it comes to the bank's business. In these cases, it is very important to establish a legal framework and legislation, so that the government, so that the state can intervene in order to preserve the stability of the financial and banking system of Serbia. This move, I'm sure, will have a drastic impact on the trust of foreign and direct investors in our country and our economic and economic system, but it will have a drastic impact on the acceleration of our country's next rating period at the Rating Agency which, as we all know, because of all the problems that have been pushed under the carpet in the previous period, we have a rating of "bb minus" or so on. "Jang Rating." He's talking about foreign investors having a good time thinking about whether they're going to invest in our country because of these things. "New Agrobank", which is also a very important aspect of the solution to this problem, employs 790 people and through the accession of "New Agrobank" to "Postan's Savings" in "Postan's Savings" will cross 300 people who will continue to do their job in 600 branches, and 490 employees will be provided through the social programme, so that we can freely say that they will be covered and that we will not have unwanted negative consequences and conflicts on this issue. What is also important is that the "Postal Savings" balance will increase and increase to some 800m euros and that bank will drastically strengthen its business, the number of depositors will increase, which is very important when it comes to one such state bank. I would mention that this law provides, and that this was not said, and that the security funds of the Treaty on the issue of a bank guarantee, on the basis of which the bank is a transferor and singles out some means of security in favour of the Development Fund, go to the benefit of the Development Fund, which is very important in order to preserve the Development Fund as an institution. I think he did a very good job in the previous period and is one of the most important factors in preserving our economy, especially in the period since the start of the global economic crisis, from 2008 to today. It represents an institution that has helped many small and medium-sized enterprises, large enterprises to overcome liquidity problems, overcome problems with craft and overcome investment problems in this aspect. I would remind you that in 2008 because of the global economic crisis from domestic and foreign banks, even a billion euros were withdrawn and that a negative effect would definitely have been caused that in this case it did not react in this way, by adopting this law on bank takeover in problems and their rights and obligations, in order to seriously jeopardise the economic order and economic order of our country. What does our country get with this law? It gets that the Serbian government is given the authority of the Assembly to respond quickly and efficiently in cases of estimated bank instability, conditions are created for stabilising the banking sector in Serbia and I would also mention what is definitely the biggest problem in public sector management, in state-owned enterprises, which is a quality choice, recruitment and selection of personnel to manage such institutions and organisations. So we don't apply and we don't try to pass this law because of the global crisis, because of the indifference, we bring it because some people didn't want to or didn't know they were doing their job. As one of the main factors in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, along with the whole team, I appeal to the Secretary-General that and how, and I hope that through the Law on Public Enterprises which passed the public debate on 19 October, it will take account of who will be delegated to the Supervisory Boards, who will be delegated as director of the companies in the executive boards of the banks, so that the final management in the private sector is leveled with the quality of governance in the public sector. I'm going to say one more sentence, that governance in the public sector and showing that kind of trust to people, that's what I tell my colleagues, that's what I tell citizens, that's what I tell people who run the public sector, that's just another additional responsibility in relation to what's required when it comes to managing economic sustainability, profitability, efficiency and efficiency in the business process. Management in the public sector and public enterprises gives banks new responsibility, but also gives a special kind of honor to people who can help their country be effective, be effective and increase their gross domestic product, attract as much investment as possible and create a quality environment for the development and acceleration of its economy. I believe that through the adoption of this law certain stability of the financial or banking system is ensured, the work of thousands of micro- and medium-sized enterprises, their continued survival, trust, not only in the Postage Savings Centre but also in other banks operating in the banking system of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, with other measures, the economic measures that we adopted in parliament last month, with a budget that will be defined for 2013, which will reduce the budget deficit to 4%, we definitely have a good field for development, for investment, for opening new jobs, which is the SDPS and most important. So, in addition to macroeconomic stability, fiscal stability, monetary stability, banking stability is important and, of course, these are the preconditions for establishing a quality environment for domestic and foreign investment and for solving the burning problem. We now see that currently in our country, the unemployment rate is as much as 28%, in some cities of the Republic of Serbia – over 50%. So, once again I want to say that we have to solve the problems right now, they're tough, they're tough. I have confidence, and the SDPS will do its best and through the resolution ministries involved, but in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia to roll up sleeves, to work, to establish an ambience for new employment, to raise the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises and new foreign investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3232	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3233	Thank you. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, this law is as some of my predecessors have said, but not all, especially not the last, one dangerous precedent. A precedent that basically introduces legal violence into this system and uncertainty into our country and certainly will not contribute to improving the environment for foreign investment. Why do I say that? Because it's undoubtedly one special, special, specific law in one case only, in this case for Agrobank, and therefore it could be called "lex specialis" in some way. On the other hand, it opens up the possibility of such transactions being carried out in the future. So for starters, I'd like to discuss some sort of a termological misunderstanding, Mr. Dinkic, Mr. Minister, to refer this to state banks. State banks, I suppose, think of those banks where the state has any capital, not majority, because the first member of this law says it does not refer to taking over the entire or part of the assets and liabilities of banks in which the Republic of Serbia has direct or indirect participation, not knowing how much. That's how I read it. To the side that with indirect participation opens another round of potential banks that can come under the influence of this law. Why does this law introduce, conditionally speaking, legal uncertainty? Excuse me, if you convince me that there is a law in a country, a normal, candidate for the EU, the United States, I have heard even that this country is mentioned, that such a member exists, the takeover is done without the consent of shareholders, depositors and other creditors, or debtors of banks participating in the takeover. Next, Article 7, the final position: "Download cannot be subject to rebuttal by creditors of banks participating in the takeover in accordance with the law governing bond relations and laws governing bankruptcy. "So, this law derivates parts of the bond law, parts of the law on bankruptcy, parts of the laws on bankruptcy and the recovery of banks, and that is why I think it will be interesting when this law comes to the Constitutional Court. I'm going to be critical, I'm going to try to be reasoned, but as is usually the case with us from LDP, we offer solutions, we don't just criticise. You said that the situation in which Agrobank was found was extorted, due to massive government failures. That's where I'd like to remove another misunderstanding, and that's, when it comes to state authorities, I'm guessing that in this case the government and the National Bank are thinking about. When you say "Government," I assume you're referring to the previous government. In this case, I hope you don't take it personally, tell you, because you are some sort of continuity with the previous government, and you and your coalition partners from the SPS. Therefore, everything the government has done since half of the government is the same, it also refers to this government. Then we'll come up with some nuances between what the previous government did at one point and after the new year, when the forced administration was introduced in the Agrobanks. We can't be in favor of a law that has to be passed because of the heavy failures of state authorities and in previous state bodies, and we didn't participate in these bodies either, so we don't feel responsible or mandatory, and you who participated, then I understand that you want to correct the failures of the previous state authorities. Where's this going? It leads to legal uncertainty, leads to the escape of foreign capital or the lack of the one that is necessary to reduce this high unemployment rate, leads to the full uncertainty of private property and we will come to the conclusion that "New Agrobank" is in the state's 100% ownership, because the old Agrobank was only in the state's 20% ownership. Where's a piece of that private capital? Is that some kind of nationalization and expropriation? What happens to that private capital where there's a lot of it from the EU? I am not just talking about important shareholders of old Agrobank from Slovenia, EU members, but I am reading these days and some Swedish investment funds where even the current Swedish foreign minister lost money. Not when we collect all the expenses the citizens will pay for what is undoubtedly, and here I agree with you, the biggest financial scandal in this area, so maybe from that "Ljubljanska Banka", it has other causes. Then we'll see what it costs. You have said a sum of 600m euros, that it will cost so much at the end of the taxpayers, citizens of Serbia, in total all the damage. You will have the opportunity, since I see that you will actively participate in the discussion, to answer if you expect it, to include a possible loss of arbitration that will trigger private capital, which by creating "New Agrobank", i.e. by forcing the old Agrobank into bankruptcy in some way evaporates? So costs are another reason why we can't support this law. The third reason would be some kind of misunderstanding, or whatever you say, dilemmas that remain and must be resolved. It would be better if they were resolved before we started this debate, but it will be resolved. Some of them are just getting rid of each other. Now we're talking about the management of the old Agrobank during 2010 and 2011, when the most bad rankings happened and it seems to me that some people are under investigation, some are in custody, and that all that happened about this period before the forced administration was introduced at the end of last year, at the end of December of last year, by the National Bank, when the Director of the Deposit Insurance Agency came to the business manager. It is clear what was happening then and it is clear that there were political decisions and there is nothing disputed and it is in the hands of the authorities and simply, you mentioned the report of the National Bank in the first half of 2011 and what was then done? Forced measures have been introduced and the temporary manager has entered for the new year. You were talking about the ratio of capital adequacy, but somehow I feel like I need to explain to the public what's going on with that bank's liquidity. Is it possible that, despite such money withdrawals during 2010 and 2011, when temporary measures were imposed, the bank had a coefficient of two, otherwise one is the lowest prescribed by the National Bank, meaning double the minimum prescribed by the National Bank. Then what happens in those five months until the drive of the old Agrobank into bankruptcy, nationalisation and loss of property, private assets and private actions and the total damage of those who owned 80% of the bank? What happens in those five months to create "New Agrobanks"? She goes bankrupt after five months too. Somehow, it seems to me that this law is only the second round of what's happened since New Year's Eve, that it should close that story in the first five months of this year, when old Agrobank was driven into bankruptcy, and you know well how she was driven into bankruptcy. The new manager, in fact, gave all the suspicious loans immediately to the charge, blocked the debtors, and thus forced the bank into that loss of about 29 billion dinars, because simply when someone owes and you block it, they will no longer have the opportunity to repay your debt or interest. So, if I understand correctly, in the 2011 final account, the loss has risen to 29 billion dinars, which, compared to the capital of 17 or 18 billion, has literally forced the bank into a bank for special purposes. As possible, it has not been explained so far that at the beginning of the year the bank has such liquidity, despite what was happening under Antonic, Lalet Sekulić and their other business partners, the type Covic and similar, and who knows how many others, and that it is still liquid and that after five months of forced administration it goes into bankruptcy and Slovenian capital and any other private capital is effectively cheated, damaged, which is why they announce the lawsuits. It's one of the things that needs to be explained. Secondly, this whole campaign this year, I'm not saying that there is a government connection, this one, especially at the beginning of the year, as far as I know, 360m euros were secured deposits in Agrobanka. Normally, when every day there's a bank in the paper, and these people get arrested, and they get arrested, it falls to 250. It has left 110m euros from the bank under conditions that are expected if the campaign is being run. No one has done anything to make sure, as you say, come on, people, don't be afraid, all the money is safe, the deposits are safe. That was peaceful, and it seems to me that this "New Agrobank" has further destroyed it. That's why I think there's a few directions. You gave two directions where you thought about it as a solution and then you decided on this. We think this is a bad solution. We don't think anything good about that other solution either, but between the two bad guys, it's always less bad. You yourself said that now that you forgive the expression, put what's left of the "New Agrobank" to the Post Office's savings bank, that the Post Office won't yield, but that's why the Deposit Insurance Agency will add 250m euros of cash to the Post Office as a guarantee of the liquidity of those deposits. I guess you don't expect people to start raising money. And I don't expect and it shouldn't have to happen, but maybe someone who was faithful to the Post Office Savings because this, we call it, "New Agrobank," in this state as you described with those 450m-euro gaps, you used a lot of big numbers, so 600 million losses to scare someone who was in the Post Office holding money and to say what this is, we better go to a third. I hope it doesn't come to this, but somehow it seems to me that the purer solution was that, when the deposit resolution agency 250m euros was given to the Postman's Savings, and the guaranteed deposits of Agrobanke were 250m euros, well, simply, the Restitution and Bank Bank Banks Act applied, that money went not to the Postman's Savings, but to those whose stakes are spared there, means to ordinary citizens. You and I will always agree, I'm sure you'll agree, that citizens will know much better what to do with their money than any minister, it was called either way. So I think this would be a cleaner solution, which wouldn't endanger our country's legal system. That's why there's, after all, a law on the recovery and bankruptcy of banks to determine what happened. It's not disputed, but this solution that opens up opportunities for, how can I say, the dangerous will of the government, yours or any other, in a situation where the government, or government, has no money to reach out for some kind of money, to deal with banking management, to build up banks and separate banks, seems to me to be much more damaging, than that what happened is inevitable to happen to some bank that came up because the state authorities didn't do their jobs, and not because private and private capital were mismanagement there, to get to that solution purer, more clearly, legally. The people get the money, they don't get the Post Office. That would lead to much more trust in the banking system. When a bank goes into bankruptcy, deposits are paid. The Deposit Insurance Agency will go 250 anyway. What happens in the future with those shareholders? You have to answer this question. Why? Private shareholders, those who make up 80% of the ownership, who accounted for 80% of the ownership in the old Agrobanks, who had a plan to resuscitate the bank, why the state, or representatives of state capital, had bombed the Assembly twice in the spring and these were not in a position to present the plan for the recovery of the old Agrobank. Maybe one of them would get into the capitalization. In principle, the authorities of the state deliberately, so it seems to us on the side, forced the bank into bankruptcy and thus loaded these owners of the old Agrobank from the EU to seek money now in arbitration, to seek compensation, etc., because it is undeniable that someone who owned 20% took or usurped all possible rights and thus prevented and drove one bank away, and then this other bank into bankruptcy. I think there are a lot of ambiguities that have to be explained to seek support for this law, even if the first two conditions don't exist, which is that this threatens the legal system, introduces a kind of legal violence in which executive power can, so to speak, play with other people's money, because it's not state money, it's just a small percentage of state money. On the other hand, who's going to invest in some bank where the state has 3% ownership, and 97% is private, to push into some kind of takeover, etc. Where the Bond Act does not apply, no bankruptcy law shall apply, etc. I think it would be cleaner to apply the law on bankruptcy than to create such equilibrists, which will cost citizens of Serbia anyway. You said 600 million, let's take those 250 million that were secured deposits that would be paid under the Bank's Bank account, because it's guaranteed by the State, or by the Deposit Insurance Agency, and it has 250 million. The rest of the unsecured deposits could be paid out of the bankruptcy. Sooner or later, I don't know what the deposits are, what they're like. There are some stories that, for example, one-seven-eight billion are A-and-B-class, the best placements that are now being transferred to Postage Savings with these 60-70 exposures, along with four billion other deposits. You told us 500 people would be out of work in Agrobanka. There are 800 of them, you say these will take over about 300, so 500 will be out of a job. I believe those 300 would find a job in case it's "New Agrobank" to apply the bankruptcy law. After all, the bankruptcy law will be applied here, because after the acquisition of assets and passports, this new bank will go bankrupt. It seems to me that some other motives are behind, I really don't want to guess which, from our political and professional point of view, this law is a worse solution than that of what exists. And then why is there a law on the recovery of bankruptcy? You've said several times that, fortunately, this is an isolated case. This argument is as if it wasn't written by someone from your ministry. For example, you say this is an isolated case, these two banks, Vojvodina and Agrobanka development banks, and when you state the reasons why the regulation is proposed to take effect immediately, not to wait eight days, you say that it threatens Serbia, a potentially threatening danger that would be reflected in the possible collapse of the Republic of Serbia's economy. So is it possible that Serbia's economy will collapse because of Agrobanka? It kind of doesn't seem like it, except, by the way, it's plus here in terms of how to say, a lot of kind of epithets and adjectives that don't go along with this matter. My colleague Batic talked about the great danger to stability, it says here on the other hand – after the takeover of property and liabilities, the bank that met... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... With difficulties, I'm done. It wasn't she who faced the difficulties, but it was extorted by the huge failures of state authorities, and that's where we agree with you, but we don't think the solution is in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3234	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3235	Thank you. I see you've really taken this case seriously, and that's why I'm really going to try to clear up some of the dilemmas again. I have to tell you that if you ask the experts in the financial area, the bankers, the IMF, you'll see that there is absolute and undivided support for all of them to pass a law like this. Already, a fellow from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia has said that such and similar laws have been passed, not because of the poor government of some banks, but because of the global financial crisis, where bank deposits have been saved in some other countries. This transaction, which will now be carried out in the case of a new Agrobank, is called the "Processing Adjustment Agreement" in the professional terminology, means the purchase and acceptance of the deposit-taking obligation, carried out in the case of Turkey, Greece, the United States and Great Britain. When we made a proposal for this law and we essentially received data from the National Bank of Serbia, on which we had to act, I repeat once again, we also called the IMF to give us their expert opinion because we didn't want to make our own decision, because here you have asked a question that I also asked my associates – should we release the "New Agrobanks" course or save the deposit in bankruptcy, and why haven't we decided to do so? The option, as you said, is secured deposits, which 250m euros have secured deposits, would be paid 100%. And in that sense, it saves everything, all the small companies holding up to 50,000 euros in deposits, would get full compensation, but the 111m euros in other deposits that are not secured and that are larger than 50,000 euros would fail. There are also companies, there are cities, municipalities like the city of Belgrade, such as the "Vojvodina Forest", such as the town of Subotica, the Faculty of Agriculture in Novi Sad, means various institutions, their deposits would collapse, a total of 111m euros in deposits would go bankrupt. It would be a bit of a charge in that bankruptcy because 80% of the credit is non-refundable. It's logical that, with this 20% billing, very little of this would be compensated in the bankruptcy process, plus those chargeable loans, those six to seven billion dinars of billable credit, that little chargeable credit would come immediately. Even those who had loans for five years would have had to return them immediately, and those companies would have been in trouble if they couldn't get it back. That's why both we and IMF experts have defined that the bankruptcy option is not good, plus that 250m euros would be paid back, without being able to stay in the banking system, because those people who once burned themselves in bankruptcy are hard to get their money back into the system, at least it would have been a few years for that to happen. Is there in the event of bankruptcy, especially in the case of uncontrollable bankruptcy, danger, major financial danger to the entire system? Well, there is. We made sure in 2008, the SDPS MP said, when he was in US banks and banks in Iceland, citizens raised a billion euros from all banks in Serbia within 45 days. Indeed, trust in financial confidence is everything and so I say it's good that this is an isolated case and that it's just a few problematic state banks. That's why we've limited this law to banks where the state has some property and you're right there, it doesn't have to have majority property, but secondly, there's a possibility that the state can use this law and transfer, save deposits to some other banks. That's what the state costs, let me tell you right now. So, from the point of view of rationality, the budget doesn't cost anything to let everything go bankrupt and just pay off the secured deposits, not to transfer and unsecured. So, we're giving this law an opportunity, that doesn't mean that we'll be ready to transfer all the secured and unsecured deposits if any other troublesome state bank comes into trouble. Here, an example of Vojvodina Development Bank, we offered, of course, why it is happening parallelly, so the central bank of Serbia gave us information that they only have 3.5% capital adequacy instead of 12%, that they do not have enough liquidity and that they need to react. That's why we suggested that the AP Vojvodina do this kind of operation that would cost us about 100m euros, half of the Republic, half of the province, because we would have to cover unsecured deposits, because there's not enough liquid money in Vojvodina Development Bank to cover the secured and unsecured deposits, and no bank would accept it to take over without complete coverage. We predicted here a market way, both for the Postage Savings Bank and for any other recipient, so the bank that collects deposits must be 100 percent covered by liquid, remunerated funds, cash, government bonds or potentially remunerated loans in the case of these 60m euros at the New Agrobank. In any case, Vojvodina has decided, not to broadcast 50m euros in bonds, but to broadcast 150m euros, to capitalise the Vojvodina Development Bank. Will the indicators of Vojvodina Development Bank be improved? It will. They'll jump to the necessary 12% and meet the working conditions. Is that enough for that long-term bank to be stable, I said my opinion in the letter to the province's prime minister, because if you have 75% of the outstanding loans in your portfolio, I don't know what kind of artist should run that bank in order to fix it in the next period and whether it's worth broadcasting and borrowing citizens of Vojvodina for 150m euros, in addition to previously 150m euros in debt, I don't think it is, but I won't interfere with Vojvodina's autonomy. Here every owner makes a decision for himself. In the case of the Vojvodine Development Bank, the province is the owner. We own the New Agrobank and when you talk about shareholders, unfortunately that's my personal opinion, I think you're too kind to them, according to the private shareholders of this old Agrobank, here's why. You said the liquidity coefficient was supposed to be two, so it was reduced later in this process. And unfortunately for you and for me, and unfortunately for the citizens, that liquidity coefficient was falsified. Why do you think all these people who ran Agrobank are in prison and why are they being investigated? Private shareholders were responsible for 80% of the ownership in the old Agrobank, before anything happened, before the state made a failure, the biggest failure was made by the administration to control the Shareholders' Assembly, where 80% were private shareholders. In that sense, I think they suffer the consequences of their mistakes. It is not their direct personal error, because it is certain that some shareholder and Swedish or shareholder from Slovenia cannot know exactly who is managing it. His responsibility to appoint the Executive Board in a way that protects his share stake. The problem was that the falsified reports were all the time and there they had to deal with themselves, which and why they forged it, who was guilty, etc. I don't want to go into all those details. I can tell you that the people who led Agrobank, the Executive Board, are aware of what names were responsible for the management while she was private, Dusan Antonic as president, Slavoljub Korić as vice president, Branislav Pesic as a member, Bojan Simonovic as a member and Bojan Zaric as a member. Those five people signed off on all those non-refundable loans. Once unanimously, there used to be some who didn't all the decisions were signed. The state then had two representatives, Zvonimir Nikezic, the owner of the consulting house "CES Mekon" and Goran Mrdakovic. Two representatives for that 20% and their responsibility is 20%, for everything that's been going on. What was interesting to me was that the consulting house CES Mekon won, regardless of the failure of old Agrobank, the job of Vojvodina Development Bank for 500 000 euros, to make a plan for the consolidation of Vojvodina Development Bank, the last tranche of the 500 000 euros was paid last month. So, after everything that's happened with "New Agrobank." Whether the study is worth 500,000 euros, whether it will deliver the "Vojvodine Development Bank", which is in the dubiosis, I don't know, but it's very interesting. Did his friendship with the former prime minister help him get that job, be a member of the board of directors? Were the Swedish shareholders Karl Bilt and the Slovenians safe because they thought the board member was friends with the prime minister? That's another question. They're responsible for bad bank management back then. You say, "Option bankruptcy," then all 800 people would be out of a job. This way, at least 300 will keep the job. Is that some luck for them, for those 300 that these 500 are not. They'll get a social program, but they've been working in a bank that's mismanaged. I don't blame the workers, they're certainly not to blame for this, but at least they'll get the social program. Question for small shareholders, I'm going back to that question. As finance minister in the new government, I haven't found a single small shareholder in the New Agrobank. They're all left out, because that's how it is in the bankruptcy process in the old Agrobanks. Of course, I'll talk to them, but we didn't have any legal basis to include them in any way in this operation, because 100% ownership is currently state-owned. That's what I've been dealing with as a starting point. That's what our ministry found. What I have to say one more time, because I really don't want there to be any speculation about this law, is that there's no discretion, the possibility of this law being used if the bank isn't in trouble. The bank is in trouble if the NBS says they'll take her work license because she doesn't meet the requirements of the Banks Act. The government can't say there's a bank in trouble. The central bank is independent and the supervisory board gives an assessment of whether or not a bank meets the requirements, whether or not it can fix its business. Only state banks, according to this law, because the state has property that cannot repair their situation through capitalisation or through better work, can they be saved, or deposits in those banks, if the government decides to do so with the consent of the NBS. So this law gives the possibility, not the obligation to save all deposits, because it gives the possibility to save or secure or secure and unsecured. It is possible to partially save deposits under this law, because such a possibility exists in other laws adopted in this country during the crisis, for other reasons, but it did. On the other hand, why is there the support of the expert public in this law? Because it reduces the potential future costs of the state in these operations. I'll explain how. The example is that now some other state bank has a problem and that its bankruptcy is imminent, if it goes into bankruptcy, the state must pay off the secured deposits, the unsecured deposits fail, and there is damage. If there's a possibility of transferring her deposits to another strong bank, then the state doesn't have any expense. Eventually he can close part of the trunk by issuing bonds, and he doesn't need to give cash. So this law gives the state the possibility to cut costs in the case of problematic state banks. I've already told you, there are only two major troubled banks, which are fortunately not systemic, not "New Agrobank" or "Vojvodine Development Bank", have no systemic character and therefore are isolated cases. We think it would have been better if it had never been for this law to be passed by the Assembly, that there were no problems that led to the necessity to propose and adopt such a law. When problems are created, I am again talking about the question of responsibility and I will be completely open, independent of time. The problem in the banking sector cannot be held responsible by the agriculture minister, cannot be held responsible by the police minister, no one but the finance minister can be responsible. Realistically, that's what I'm saying right now, I'm the finance minister and I'm now responsible, from two and three months ago. My predecessor is responsible from the moment he found out, not even the finance minister can know all in advance. The Central Bank is responsible for letting this problem happen in the first place. If serious controls were done, the liquidity coefficient could not be falsified or the bank's capital forged. The bank's capital wasn't as positive as it says in the papers, it was negative. The first old Agrobank went bankrupt because of its negative capital, as is now the Vojvodina Development Bank. 150m euros should not be added because the bank is good, but is bad. The question is whether it can become good at all, if it has already been given 150m euros and it has not been enough to make it good. Now another 150m euros are required. In our opinion, according to IMF experts, in such cases, it is better to put that bad bank into bankruptcy, and to save citizens' deposits and businesses by transferring to a healthy bank that wants to accept it. This law cannot impose an obligation on a bank to accept deposits unless it wants to. So, only if she sees it as a good business transaction for herself. Why is it a good business transaction for banks that only accept deposits? Because they accept deposits that are covered in cash, they don't accept any bad placements. If bad placements were transferred, no one would live to accept it and it would be economically irresponsible. By transferring only cash-covered deposits, covered by bonds, liquidable assets, it can then be a good, profitable, commercial job for the bank that receives it, as the client base increases. If the bank is stable, it can try to keep most of those new depositors on it, and that is the goal, that the Post Office, which is stable and strong, will keep most of these new deposits. Of course, if someone doesn't want to be a depositary of the Post Office tomorrow, and he was a New Agrobank depositor, he can free Monday to raise his savings deposit, by transferring liquid assets from the Deposit Insurance Agency worth 250m euros. Anyone who wishes will be able to be paid off from Monday and thus preserves the stability of the financial system.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3236	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, Section 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will work after 18 hours, in order to be effective in the work of the National Assembly, that is because of the need for the draft law of the agenda to be adopted as soon as possible. At the same time, I'd like to inform you that I'm setting a break for 15 hours and five minutes. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the National Assembly MP for the vacant parliamentary seat, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic of the Election Commission on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to MP Branislav Mitrovica, elected from the election list United Regions of Serbia -- Mladjan Dinkic. On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and of the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Branislav Mitrovica. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I ask him to approach for the sake of taking an oath. The chairman reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. "I swear to uphold the duty of the civil servant and the civil liberties and the best knowledge and the ability to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice") I ask the MP to join the signing of the oath. We're going back to work. The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3238	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, two key things today are the subject, and these are: responsibility and trust and these are the two most important words I will speak about today, and the reason is the law that is on the agenda. Why trust and why responsibility? Trust is something that builds a banking system all over the world, including us. Without trust, the banking system can't work. This law that we need to adopt by the end of this week is something that will restore trust, primarily investors in the bank, and something that will prevent and eliminate any risk of a chain reaction in the banking system, which has been well known and that has been happening in us and elsewhere in the world. Responsibility, we as MPs today have a great responsibility and when we discuss this law, listens to the public of Serbia and any discussion in this House can throw trust in the banking system, but can restore it. On the other hand, I call on all my colleagues and colleagues to be responsible as MPs. The government is also responsible for proposing this law and the National Bank, as the country's institution. The same responsibility has the leadership of the National Bank, which failed to exercise due diligence over banks and to question the functioning and stability of the total banking system. They were left behind in the previous period and some decisions had to be made. The situation we have is next. They're in trouble, we heard it today, two state-owned banks. Not by any chance, or all of us together have to wonder, why this is happening in these state banks. Obviously, it's not about one system problem. It is, in fact, a problem in the management of these banks and the surveillance that is missing. By this law, we actually remove bad management moves, keep the clients' deposits of these banks and the loans that are placed on the economy. The minister has outlined possible scenarios and possible solutions to this problem. So things are very clear. One option is the liquidation, the other the recapitalisation and the third – the adoption of one such law. Many countries in the world have made similar solutions, realizing the danger of losing confidence in the banking system. I will remind you, digression is doing, although this is not the case today with these banks, that the economic crisis that has left such a devastating effect on the global economy has actually begun in the banking system by the mortgage crisis, in the US and has become a reality sector, and then another return wave from the real sector again into the financial, i.e. banking system and governments of a large number of countries, the EU, the United States has also had to resort to the recovery of its banks, with various measures of limitations. Our banking system just in this economic crisis, at the very beginning, proved to be very stable and vital. Serbia did not have to do interventions that even those countries that are far more powerful and more developed than us. We have preserved our banking system through a policy that was present at that time and relatively high minimum reserves in the banking system. What is now jeopardizing the banking system is not this system crisis, it's not the global economic crisis, it's just a bad setting up in these banks. You've seen from the opening statement on what kind of disaster it is, what a cleavage, and what bad placements it is. Eighty percent of that so-called. "New Agrobanks" are bad jobs. I'm going back to what I said at the beginning - responsibility. Whose responsibility is it? This parliament must also demand the responsibility of all those who have led to these banks in this position. The whole Agrobank affair actually shows what's going on here. It's obvious she's been held accountable. It also lacked the responsibility of the NBS leadership at the time to warn both the government and this parliament that there are serious problems. It is we who today are trying to protect the deposits of citizens, not to cause panic and chaos that can be very dangerous, but at the same time, to invite all state authorities to examine ultimately the responsibility for business failures both Agrobanke and Vojvodina Development Banks and all those banks with the participation of the state and state capital. It's our obligation as a parliament. Here you could hear a false thesis, that actually someone with this law wants to put under the control of financial flows, manage finance, and in fact it's a rescue, a forced move to save at this point something that is actually the role of Serbian citizens and Serbia's economy in these banks. I think this operation really is delicate, but it's inevitable that it doesn't spread further. When I was talking about trust in the banking system and how the banking mechanism works everywhere, I was also thinking that if it's not done now and right away, it can spread very easily to those banks that are healthy. I have a case that, because of such bad moves and failures, even the most stable banking systems can suffer serious consequences. And the best bank in the world and the best banking system, if there is no trust and documents to demand their roles, can't stand it. That is why I call for the seriousness of all of us and for us to discuss this matter in a way that has been largely discussed today. There were really very responsible and serious discussions. Together we must come to the right solution. There's a minister here to listen to all of us, to possibly fix this law. We're looking for solutions together, and we just don't have many. That's what we had to hear, one model that we didn't invent, that already exists in the world, the takeover model. I think that this way not only protects the roles of citizens who have their savings in these banks but also protects a good part of the economy that uses credit with these banks, because in the event of liquidation, these loans would be immediately charged, which means that they would worsen the liquidity of the economy itself. I think this is a really elegant solution, an effective solution that is also counterproductive to this chain current that could possibly occur in case these measures are not taken. I'm going back to responsibility and trust. I am indeed seeking and insisting as a National MP that, by the end of the examination, the Agrobanks and the New Agrobanks and the Vojvodina Development Banks and that the NBS lead the main and leading role in this, of course, and other state bodies that will investigate the responsibility of individuals. It's just amazing that 300m euros, maybe more of it's a dubiosis, Agrobank, that that money just disappears and there's nothing of it. It will be sad if all this story ends with the state covering those minuses again, that no one answers, or that money that's magically drawn from these banks disappears. In doing so, we must all insist together, so that not all citizens pay for such failures. One more thing bothers me personally both as a citizen and as an MP, and yet I return to Agrobank – I am completely disappointed when I found out how business was done, among other things, in that bank. Some people who bought hundreds of employees in privatization bought the company first with the same loans and then sold out what was most valuable, fired the workers, earned money in the finals, that shell from the company that remained, staked in these banks, and re-earned big money. That's what affects me as an MP, and that's why I insist exactly on responsibility. I use those two words - responsibility and trust. So it can't go unpunished. This transaction and this operation will save and stabilise this country's financial system, but that's not enough. We all have to insist together that we examine who led these banks to do so much dubiosis? It's hundreds of millions of euros. We often ask questions and wonder why we don't have roads, why aren't they building kindergartens? We have a problem with solving things that cost five or 10,000 euros in many local self-governments, and only by giving up these powerful millions who have disappeared through this mechanism. We heard different stories here, they also mentioned four major state banks that were allegedly ruined and closed by Mladjan Dinkic, etc. Let's talk about it openly. It's exactly the same story as this story. You know what, it's easy to manipulate people and tell them -- they were great, great banks, and then somebody came and put those banks out. Let's talk facts. For many of us, it is in memory and I understand some people who say that they were good banks. And I think they were good banks, but they were badly run. They've made political decisions. They were good for a part of Serbia's citizens. I remember the example of people who were in these banks getting loans they never paid back, or inflation ate them. That was good for people. You take a loan for the apartment, you give a full salary for the first war, you give the second half, and the third, fourth and other wars are bought for less than a hell of a cigarette. That may have been good, but it led to the epilogue we had after 2000. Many companies had salaries, developed, bought equipment from such loans that they never returned. At the end of the story, the whole story was next -- banks made a four billion-euro dubiosis. You heard it was then most of the social brutal product. The pairing of these banks led the state into bankruptcy. It seems we've forgotten, many of us, that there's been a missing foreign currency savings in these banks, that no one else has been saving in them. At that time, and today I claim that these banks have not been liquidated that the greatest burden was not borne by the citizens, they have been given their roles thanks to the governor's decision and then the government, trustees from abroad paid the highest price. You remember the Paris Club and the London Club. So let's not get into the same mistake and try to save something in a way that's wrong and that can't be saved. This is a law that will allow this negative process and trend to be stopped. We are responsible as MPs, as representatives of Serbian citizens, to protect both their roles and the roles of the economy. Let's not question the stability of the financial and banking system. This is exactly what we're doing. All those stories that we had the chance to hear during the debate, whether the law is constitutional, whether it's not constitutional, are legal issues, but when the circumstances that happened here no one had any idea of the scales of the disaster and of the bank's failures, then you have to react urgently. Sometimes you'll be responsible for not reacting. Sometimes you'll be held accountable because you reacted badly. Apparently, in the business of these banks and in the reaction of the previous government and the National Bank, there were many untimely reactions and many failures. So I invite you to try to make this solution the best possible during the discussion that will continue through the amendments and through the discussion now, and to stop something that can have really far-reaching and inconspicuous consequences. The URS parliamentary group will support this law because we are confident that in this way we are actually saving Serbia's financial system, encouraging investors and saving investors and investors, calming down all those on the country's banking and financial market. And citizens can be calm, and bankers, and of course those businessmen who have their own resources or use these banks' loans that will have no adverse consequences. I hope that we will all learn lessons for the future from all of this, that if we are representatives of the state, we must be far more responsible for the state's resources not only in banks and other institutions and companies, public enterprises, and that if we fail at a certain moment to do the right things, we can have far more serious consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3239	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3240	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers exactly 83 years ago on this day of October 24th, was called "black Thursday", and this was the introduction to the biggest economic crisis in 1929, which lasted almost a decade in the United States and led to much greater social and economic consequences that eventually were the introduction to World War II. What's happening today in our financial sector, I think it could get us into something similar that happened back then if we don't see the problems right. I don't think we're gonna have a black Thursday or Friday, but we're gonna have a whole black decade. The problems in the financial sector, and this is just the tip of the iceberg, the problem this law treats is much deeper and has arisen in a way that has been the result of what the problems of the economy which are currently unable to return its loans in a timely and timely manner during the past decade. Right now, as you know, in banks we have about 30% of what's called "MPL" placements or loans that can't come back. In Agrobanka, it is also a slightly higher percentage and not only the Agrobanka but many other banks could face challenges tomorrow because they do not have capital adequateness. They can't pay their deposits to those who save in those banks. In our view, this law, which was found before the MPs, partially solves only one individual case, but is not part of a package of measures that would actively respond to a crisis that could be escalating very quickly in other financial institutions. As you well know, some other foreign banks are trying to get out of Serbia, trying to sell. It's extremely difficult anywhere anyone who deals with the economy nowadays to get credit and I'm afraid that if it doesn't come out with a clear strategy that's going to deal with this problem, we won't be able to bring in a "lex specialis" for each individual case, which is very superficially treating this problem. This may solve the issue of Agrobank, but on the other hand, we are introducing a practice to make legal solutions that are not in line with the legal system, i.e. Other laws that treat this matter. For this reason, the second question is asked – The Deposit Insurance Agency Act, Deposit Insurance Act, Bank Bank Bank Bank Bank Liquidation Act are, let me say, the frameworks that treat this problem. Some colleagues have already mentioned this in their presentations, but then we have to ask ourselves whether the existing laws are adequate to deal with such a problem if we each have to pass a special law on a case-by-case basis. There may be better solutions that have been applied in countries that have faced this crisis before us. In particular, Scandinavians reformed their banking sector in the 1990s and in a very thorough way examined how financial institutions function. As we know today, they have no problem functioning the same. Also, a large amount of this toxic activity in banks today has been less paralysing the economy. The bankruptcy law doesn't work for us at all. You have a situation that a company that is unable to serve its obligations has 10 or 20 different creditors. While for years they have been trying to clear up debt-confidential relations between companies, which have even been able to operate and make operational profits due to legally unresolved property-legal relations, i.e. poor bankruptcy laws. Applying the same, not possible. In other countries, as far as I know, all the bad activity is modelled, as was our old foreign currency savings. Government bonds were taken out of banks. You can't expect bank officials to try to restructure the economy. the real sector. Today you have a situation that a good part of your economy is blocked and that businesses cannot operate and there is no indication that in the multi-annual bankruptcy processes these proceedings will end. We've given some amendments, and it's about the fact that maybe in a partially strange way, the shareholders of the former banks are being treated. It is not clearly defined what indirect participation means in the capital of banks whose assets, i.e. liabilities, are assumed. So this could mean that someone who wants to invest in the financial sector in Serbia will certainly not. Because tomorrow, that same financial institution can lose its assets, without a passport, without having previously consulted shareholders. As we know in the case of Agrobank, arbitration and lawsuits will follow. I'm sure those who invested their funds won't shut up, they'll try to be compensated. This legislative proposal says that the takeover is done without the consent of shareholders, depositors and other creditors, or debtors of the banks participating in the takeover. I think it's completely contrary to the Constitution which in some ways defines that private property is uncut, as well as to the law on companies that very clearly define what management bodies are in companies i.e. There is a Assembly, board of directors, etc. which may agree or disagree with some decisions, although the state is a representative, i.e. has a certain percentage of the capital. Such a decision must be voted in a legitimate manner, not a shortcut towards a unilaterally adopted government act, quickly, must be transferred to another financial institution. Such a proposal opens a space for different, let me say, solutions in the future that cannot be good for the deficits of financial institutions, which are in trouble, or for those who have invested in banks in Serbia. I don't think that's good right now. Especially since our credit rating has been downgraded, we've had a violation of the National Bank's independence in a very strange way. Because of the way the governor is elected, I don't dispute the governor's qualifications at all. As far as I'm concerned, I think he's doing his job well, but the way he's done it is not only us, but he's also controversial to some other institutions that aren't in Serbia. Also, about the Vojvodina Development Bank, I think it should be seen as an economic issue, not as political. For the reason that there is a reason why there should be a development bank in Vojvodina. Because there is a mainly economic activity and way of financing agriculture requires resources, because also offerings, the placements must be tailored to certain economic branches. If it were to be acted in accordance with the proposal, I am afraid that the development bank would be quickly abolished without any idea that the institution would replace the function of what the development bank was supposed to do. Also, I must remind myself that the financial sector in Novi Sad once existed. The banks that were then state-owned were faster and better privatised. So today, a bank that would take over the assets and liabilities of Vojvodina's development bank could be either Greece or Italy's, which I'm not sure would give the best results at the moment, given the situation with the financial sectors in those countries. At that time, the banks were privatised, while the " Commercial Bank" in Belgrade was declared strategic and privatisation was not implemented in such a way. At that time, it was only to make sure that the budget was filled, not what would happen in four or five years. So the problems that we have today in the financial sector are not created overnight, but are due to the years-long moves of various governments. All in all, our parliamentary group will not vote for this bill because there are certain solutions in the law that are controversial to us. Also, I think what should particularly be apostrophe here is that there is no clear criterion of how a grant will be shared. It says here that banks, which take over funds, or obligations, will be given assistance, but it does not say how, nor on the basis of which criteria, if the aim is to reduce the deficit in the future, i.e. that the current government behaves fiscally. I think sharing grants is not the way to go, with intent being good and absolutely priority regardless of how different parties view this problem – to maintain trust in the financial system and citizens' deposits should be an absolute priority for any solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3241	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3242	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, we at the DSS have an understanding of the chaos that the previous government has left almost in all areas, whether we are talking about judicial reform and the ruins that we are about to solve now, whether we are talking about the area of energy, agriculture and finance that we are talking about today. In the area of finance, there are more black holes that eat state money for anyone who eats funds that could be much better relocated and redistributed, whether for social programmes or for other expenditures of the budget. We are talking today about how we are going to save one bank from which almost 300m euros have been drained over the past few years, without any basis, and how we are going to solve the 130m-euro issue that the previous government allocated to the "New Agrobanks" in May and how we heard and how that money is eaten now when we talk about it. We are talking about 130m euros in "New Agrobanks" of which there are 15 million left, while the remaining 115m were used for various businessmen in the then government to buy "News", "Politique" or some other projects that have funded the citizens' money and which have been paid out of the budget as the basis for the work of this "New Agrobank". We understand the need to pass one of these laws. In some ways, we can understand the argument of haste and all, as well as budget rebalances, lack of public debate. The law arrived the day before yesterday, and we already have a session today. The third thing is that we don't have the opinion of the National Bank and we don't have the opinion of the professional public, except that we heard from Minister Dinkic that the expert public supports one such solution, which we can trust Mladjan Dinkic to believe that this is the case, but we haven't had a chance to hear it from the professional public since the opportunity for public debate was not there. During the debate on the election of the governor of the National Bank and the change of the Law on the National Bank and during the debate on budget rebalancing, we asked multiple questions about the "Agrobank" and Minister Dinkic himself said he would give the National Assembly an answer as to what was going on in "Agrobanka". We heard verbally now from Minister Dinkic about the situation in Agrobank and what followed after with "New Agrobank", that there are 80% of non-refundable loans, but we have not heard the same thing as who is responsible. There's one thing that's obvious is that in this situation we're passing the law to address the question of "New Agrobank". That's what the minister told us, and we all know that. We didn't hear who was in the control system in Serbia, and why we let "Agrobank" happen to us. We see that every day, people who were commissioners, who took loans from Agrobank, are arrested, but we don't see who's in the system of the state and the National Bank, and if anyone is going to respond because they let Agrobank happen. We all know that when a loan is taken, bankers are looking for black under the fingernails, that mortgages that are multiple times bigger than credits that you take and various other collaterals that you're looking for, but how could it happen that in one country that has all the laws that regulate one financial area, we come into a situation where 300 million just so happens for loans that don't have any collateral, no mortgages, no other loan security, and then in "New Agrobank" almost the same thing happens in just a few months? Someone simply has to answer for it, and I expect us to get answers to that in some future period. As I said, we at the DSS have an understanding that this issue must be resolved, but this issue must be resolved in a way that would not violate the system that exists in the state of Serbia, what kind of system that has shown all shortcomings, for example. Agrobank, in the previous period, but that system exists. It is not a system problem, the problem is individuals who were key levers in that system who did not use their powers to prevent the abuses that occurred in the Agrobanks. We believe that this law threatens, to a good degree, the system that exists now, because it directly suspends Article 3(3) of the law which regulates this area and through its provisions indirectly suspends the Law on Banks, which we believe is not good at the moment and that this is a bad solution that ad hoc is made to resolve the issue in the "Agrobanks", but one solution made by a mutant in our legal system, a hybrid solution which, if it continues to exist in our legal system as such, opens up many opportunities for some abuse. The laws that exist in this area exist to limit the self-will of the National Bank and to protect the state from the will of commercial banks. Now we have a situation to pass one law that will be a hybrid solution, which will give too much authority to the government in the process of taking over banks, although we believe there are other mechanisms that could solve this issue. These mechanisms may not be as fast as Mr Dinkic says they should be, but they are mechanisms that exist in existing laws. I'll tell you later on about these mechanisms and one solution that could have pre-warned this solution and only be directly applied to "New Agrobank". We as a party, when we talk about the legal aspect of this law, we can say that this argument, which states that this law, among other things, is being passed because of the consequences of the global economic crisis, does not fully stand. It's not the world's economic crisis that's to blame for the situation in Agrobank and New Agrobank, on the contrary, it's the system that, at those times when it was supposed to control, didn't control the business of these two banks. It is good to hear that the global economic crisis is not an argument for the adoption of this law, although in other countries there may have been, unfortunately, the consequences of the global economic crisis are much less than the consequences of the irresponsible government we had in previous years. The global economic crisis is a child compared to what we have left behind after the previous government. Speaking of this law, you gave us an answer as to why you proposed it, which is that there is no other possibility that before Sunday the savings could be resolved by the question of depositors, or people who have their roles in "New Agrobank". Of course, we have an understanding. Could it have started procedures sooner that would have allowed this to be resolved? It probably could, but this government doesn't have 100 days left, and we're assuming there was a little more time to do something more, but this is how we got into a situation where we're trying to solve one question this way. As far as we're concerned, this law can be a bomb in our legal system, because it suspends these three laws, and it opens up the possibility of further arching state resources. Article 5 says the bank can be paid to the acquirer, in this case to the "Postal Savings", for the benefit of financial support. So it opens up the possibility that the state is still investing money and investing funds in banks. That's the problem for us. The state has shown only in the case of Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank that it is not a good boss and that these two banks have a problem. Whether to open up the issue of other state-owned banks, "Employment Bank", "Serbian Bank", and others, we don't know, we'll see what comes next, but in these two banks we have a problem. The state has proved not to be a good boss and that, ultimately, it is necessary to access any situation in which the state should invest grants in an area, in this case, in the bank of the acquirers. As you say, in this case, it's going to be the Post Office. This law is a serious state intervention in the banking sector, it can be too large, depending only on the way it will apply. The state, as I said, has so far intervened in banking areas, through Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Banks, or previously "Metals Bank", but it has proved to be "Metals Bank", in which the state intervened, so the "Vojvodine Development Bank" is an even worse thing than "Metals Bank" or, at best, the same. The state intervened in the Metals Bank case to create the Vojvodina Development Bank, and now we've come to the point that we've made one bad bank another bad bank. All it has to do is draw a line and see how many Serbian citizens cost experiments with state aid to banks. We were in the party doing the bidding and we found – if all the social benefits per Republic of Serbia's budget increased by 100%, it would be a cost of 300m euros per year. Our experiment with Agrobank alone this year will cost 130m euros so far, with what the state has invested in the formation of New Agrobank in May. How much will it cost us further through the grant you've provided for in this law, we'll see. We are coming into a situation that a close government group of businessmen has spent an entire budget that could have been spent all year, increased by 100%, for social contributions in Serbia, child benefits and everything else that follows. Simply, in Serbia someone has to answer for it. We come to the situation that we here in Parliament and government, on behalf of the citizens, will continuously invest funds in that one group that is close to the government is rich from day to day, and that citizens, those who fill that budget, are in a position that social giving and all other donations cannot be paid, because they have to finance the holes in the Agrobanks, the New Agrobanks, the Development Bank, the Metals Bank and the other banks that are just coming to us, or the situation that we are coming into. So we have proposed through the amendments you will see and we are trying to fix this text of the bill, to get into a situation, to make it acceptable and to provide as many as one situation in which there would be some control of the spending of state resources. One of the two solutions exists also in the Banks Act, in Article 133. The law on banks as status changes is also mentioned by the bank's accession. This is exactly what this situation, which we are talking about today, is about taking over and this same member is about the administrative management process, or banks for special purposes, such as "New Agrobank" today. So the Banks Act regulates the bank's accession process, i.e. one bank's status changes in this way by joining another bank, or drowning in another bank. But here, through this law and through this article, we have a procedure that implies an analysis of the economic justification of accession. An analysis of the attachment that needs to be positive, otherwise the NBS won't give consent. The National Bank has no role under your law except to give consent. There's no role in the process itself. I understand that you may have some mistrust so far as it's been done in the NBS, but I expect that trust to be established and that the NBS will work differently after the election of a new governor. So there's an existing law on banks to attach one bank to another, like changing its status and shutting down one bad bank, by attaching itself to another bank. The fact is that it is one procedure that you were talking about, which takes at least a month, and probably several days, and that in this situation we, or you, or citizens who have their roles in "New Agrobanks" have no time to wait and that we will be in trouble if the "New Agrobank" week of savings welcomes us in such an entirely non-equity situation. But it's one procedure that exists, which is legal and which is transparent. The procedure provided for in this law is short, restrictive and non-transparent. This is the same problem for us that this law does not provide me with any economic justification analysis that should precede this. They may be, but they are not foreseen by this law, nor any participation by the NBS that should be a guarantee of the functioning of the banking sector in Serbia along with the government and other bodies. If the intention was to solve only the problem of "New Agrobank", why didn't you reach for one mechanism, which is to bring a "lex specialis" that would only refer to "Agrobank", where certain rules and certain laws might be suspended or not applied only in the case of Agrobanka, and we passed a law that delegates the jurisdiction of four laws governing the area of finance, these are the three laws of Article 3 and are indirectly laid down by the Law on banks out of force. We have made a law that has completely changed the blood count of the financial system in Serbia, instead of already coming before us and saying – we have a problem with Agrobank and New Agrobank, and that is the situation. We all know here that this is an inherited problem and no one has a dilemma about conducting an investigation, conducting business research and insight into Agrobank's business. If that's how you said you had a problem and let's solve it, could it be "lex specialis"? We would say – we can talk about "lex specialis" to solve this particular issue at the moment. But by passing this law, we think it can further bring down the banking system and I don't know to what extent it can contribute, and I would like, like all Serbian citizens, to contribute to the increase of confidence in the banking sector in Serbia by foreign investors and of course, Serbian citizens who are one of the largest depositors in the banking system itself and that this law can contribute to it. Unfortunately, we will see, there is time, there is time, what effects this law will have on our banking system and whether it will warn the unpleasantness and new dubiosis of Serbian banks, or banks in which Serbia is the owner. I don't think the issue of the Vojvodina Development Bank is the issue of the District Government. I think the issue of Vojvodina Development Bank, the NBS issue and the responsibility for business control of Vojvodina Development Bank is at the NBS, to examine the business, to examine the placements, because it's simply impossible for 75% of us to have non-refundable discounts again. You know, nowadays someone has to answer for that, because it will again be covered by Serbian citizens from their own money. It will again be money used in the budget to cover the bank's debt, instead of leaving for social contributions, or for some investments that would create new jobs and help improve citizens' living standards. But we are getting into a situation that every year the money, which should be used for something else, is being poured into the pockets of some people who are unfortunately close to the authorities of their happiness, and unfortunately the citizens of us here and who then use those resources in the way they consider appropriate, but certainly not in the citizens' interest. The Democratic Party of Serbia, a law in this form, cannot support it. We handed over nine amendments to this bill, and since it was a small deadline, you probably didn't get to know their content. We hope that we will be able to fix this bill and through the debate on amendments to come up with some solution that will not be a bomb in our legal order, but that will be in line with all the solutions that exist now and that may only contribute more effectively to the implementation of these solutions and more efficient control of the business of banks in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3243	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3244	I have to say, I agree with most of your thesis that you've brought out, I'm just not agreeing with one. We're actually protecting and strengthening financial stability by this law, and we're not jeopardizing it, and with all the other things you said, I agree. I think the very way of presenting this law confirms it. What does that mean? We found one problem, we didn't do it, he was found. We didn't have time to use the regular procedure in the Law on Banks, the Law on the Agency for Exploitation of Deposits, you yourself said that under that law the appointment of the Assembly of Shareholders, the assessment of all these things to be done, we should have taken the maltenes on August 1st with that procedure to arrive before the week of austerity to resolve the issue of "New Agrobank". Realistically, the government was formed a few days before August, more precisely by the end of July, and this problem here in the form of how I see it now, I got kind of at the table in September of the month. Literally with about a month, a month and a half to react. We planned the Lex Specialis, at the beginning. We thought we'd only include "New Agrobank". We completed the proposal to "lex specialise" the law, but when we got a notice from the NBS that they wanted to withdraw permission to work on the Vojvodina Development Bank and that maybe there's still banks, state banks, that are in trouble. Then we changed our mind after consulting the IMF and decided to go to law that would regulate all problematic state banks, but only problematic. The problem banks are the ones where, unless the state reacts, financial instability can arise. But it's the NBS who decides what a troubled bank is and what isn't. That bank that can't go back to life that can go bankrupt is a troubled bank. Of course, that's why we only limited ourselves to banks where the state has a stake. When we took over without the consent of shareholders, depositors and other creditors, we also limited ourselves only if it was done to the state bank so that we could even carry out this procedure in the case of the New Agrobank and the Post Office. If a bank acquirer would be a private or foreign bank, then Article 7(2) provides the possibility, not only the possibility, but also the right to conclude contracts on the basis of the decision of the Assembly of its Bank. So we can't and we won't suspend the rights of private banks, foreign banks, but they decide whether to take over. We believe that the Serbian banking system will be stronger if the two dubious state banks that have been ruined by bad governance, Vojvodina Development Bank, Nova Agrobanka are liquidated and their deposits saved. I'm making a difference between the deposits of citizens and the economy and the poor activity, i.e. the bad placements. In that sense, we thought that this law included both the "New Agrobank" and the Vojvodina Development Bank, and we have the possibility to continue to do so. You're saying the NBS is responsible for the Vojvodina Development Bank and you're right. The NBS is the one doing the supervisory, she did the supervisory, came up with the assessment that the negative capital of the Vojvodina Development Bank is such that to get the bank back on track, it is necessary to put 15 billion dinars of capital into it. Our opinion is the same as yours, we share the Ministry of Finance's opinion, there's no economic sense of putting 15 billion dinars of new taxpayers' money into a bank that has 75% of the outstanding claims and has already been recapitalised twice with another 150m euros. So to insert 300m euros in total into a bank that has already shown in the previous period that nothing is being helped, as it is getting worse. It's pouring into direct losses. Whether there are smarter things in Vojvodina to invest 300m euros in other projects, and I'm sure there are. A lot of things are missing in Vojvodina and roads and helping the farmers they're talking about, whatever, the welfare of what you're talking about, everything is smarter than putting in a well that's obviously bottomless, because there's no guarantee that bad governance won't continue, because two recapitalisations have already been done and 100 percent agree with you, so we say. That is why we advised colleagues in the province to be responsible, not to act politically in the case of banks, but to accept the fact that there was bad governance, to accept the proposal and the Central Bank and us from the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia, that the best solution is to save deposits, the Deponents of the Vojvodina Development Bank, completely, and that the rest go bankrupt, because it is uncharging loans. For some reason, I can't just walk into the causes of people who run the province now. They decided they were better off seeking a 15 billion dinar recapitalisation and asked for such agreement from our Public Debt Administration, or the Central Bank. We've given our opinion, by law, it's possible that Vojvodina issues public debt for whatever it wants, it's freedom and they have space for it by law, but we said it's economically illogical. What the NBS is going to say, you're absolutely right, they're responding, it's up to them to assess, because this is not just about the issue of insolvency, or the security of capital, but about the security of liquidity. The capitalisation of the paper, it's not the same as fresh money, and in that sense, I assume that the NBS will take a certain position. In any case, no matter what is taken as a position in both the Region and the Central Bank, this law will allow for the rescue of deposits in the Vojvodine Development Bank, if desired. If someone doesn't want to save deposits and thinks they can make it through business, I can't slow down the continuation of that experiment, either, but I think it's economically wrong. On the other hand, I absolutely support both you and Mr. Ilic and everyone who has said here that it is necessary that after such a financial scandal it is determined exactly who is responsible and sanctioned for it, because an even greater scandal would be for the state to lose, a minimum of 600m euros, and probably more, and that no one is responsible, because that money is not just gone, someone is responsible for it. This is the biggest financial scandal, and I think it would be an even bigger legal scandal if this financial scandal were left without legal sanctions. So I tried to explain to you why we went to this law, we didn't have time, because the government wasn't formed a year ago, but less than three months ago to use already existing instruments. We thought we were going to a lex specialis, all of a sudden, retailes, when we finished the job with "New Agrobank" waiting for us information about the Vojvodine Development Bank, and then in consultation with the Central Bank, we said, let's give the possibility, however, we don't know what's waiting for us, because the Central Bank also has a new leadership, for a short time, if there's another state bank that's problematic, you asked it yourself. What is certain, we do not expect to have problems in any system bank, because the state bank, if it is systemic, is the Commercial Bank, it is one of the strongest in the country, but it also has minority shareholders from the European Bank for the Reconstruction and Development of the International Financial Corporation and they are one of the strongest banks. No system bank is anywhere near the problem. Just because these two banks, Vojvodina Development Banks and New Agrobanks, the degree of credit default in the Serbian banking system is slightly above 20%, and would be much lower if there were no, because these two corrupt averages with 80% non-refundable, or 75% non-refundable. I think it would be the healthiest thing for those two banks to disappear from the system, when they are bad, and only to remain healthy banks in the system, because this is not a political game, I know that both Vojvodina's bank and central Serbia and all of Serbia, but this is about citizens' deposits. There must be a responsibility to the deposits. Funding of development needs and provinces can be done from the Development Fund, someone, the province, but then not citizens' deposits are collected and not moral gambling is made, but development projects are financed from the Fund. I think Vojvodina should have such a fund, it has one, but it can be stronger. I think it's a better option for the province government, that the money she would issue to capitalize a failed bank if she wanted to join the Capital Vojvodina Development Fund and strengthen the base, but there's no deposits there, no citizens, no economy, but it's a fund and there's no risk. So there's no risk of potentially bad decisions harming someone else. Here the bad decisions in the bank are making an effect that is tectonic both on the deficits and on the entire system. That's the difference. We bring this emergency law with a desire to save all deposits in troubled state banks, because citizens who were saving there are not guilty, because all these banks had permission to work at NBS and we're going to save all those deposits and I think it's clear now, which is why we also said that the bank is provided with irrevocable financial support for the takeover. So, if 250m euros of secured deposits for the Postage Savings Bank are needed, it cannot be more than 250m euros, but must be covered 100%, taken over, must be covered by activity. There can't be any more shows about it, because that would be unwarranted. So, these banks that will take up deposits, the New Agrobank Post Office, and I hope that the province's government will change their minds and give consent, even an initiative, not agreeing to take over the deposits and development banks of Vojvodina, because three, or four, banks are interested, and one is from France, and the other is from Austria, the third is from Serbia, there are several banks that would take over, but with the corresponding coverage of liquidity and without these non-refundable claims. This is a better solution than spending another 150m euros on capitalisation. It is my belief and confidence of the IMF Mission which has also studied the Vojvodina Development Bank case, as well as the New Agrobanks, and one thing is to save deposits and the other to determine responsibility. You're right, those who deal with determining responsibility have already put some people in the investigation. However, a question of responsibility arises, whether there is someone from the state authorities who is responsible, because here they have obviously scheduled institutions and central banks and governments, after learning from the previous central bank and all other state bodies that had to be involved. If there is no responsibility for this, 600m euros in the loss of a few people, I don't know what responsibility should be for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3245	Thank you. Miss Jerkov, on what basis you're answering.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3246	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3247	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3248	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Article 27. – all participants in the debate are, except that they are obliged to comply with the laws and are particularly obliged to respect the Constitution. You know Mr Dinkic, the AP Vojvodina, an autonomous province within the Republic of Serbia, which can have its budget in the manner it considers necessary. What the AP Vojvodina can invest 300m euros in is an absolute matter of legitimately elected representatives of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. You, I'll remind you you're not one of them. The Autonomous Province has its own organs, has its own Assembly, has its own Government, has this "Development Bank" and the way it wants to run "Development Bank" is absolutely an AP Vojvodina thing and you are not you, who, as Minister of Finance, can take on responsibility that you do not have in accordance with any legal or legal act in this country. This "Vojvodine Development Bank" was created as an attempt to save Metals Bank, which was in trouble just at the time when Mr. Jelasic, your governor, was governor. Is that someone else's fault, too, or is it gonna be that the Metals Bank got into trouble? Maybe it's the G17 plus personnel. Your concern for the money of the people of Vojvodina is extremely touching, and I appreciate it, but you may try to take care of the citizens of Vojvodina by not cutting them off by the Budgetary System Act, by not giving 25,000 acres of land to sheiks beyond all the laws in this country, so that your Deputy Prime Minister won't charge twice the same highway to the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3249	Thank you. There is no obligation, as well as in the case of Mr Arsic, to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure since your argument did not refer to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3250	You are completely wrong, for the simple reason that the Autonomous province is autonomous in decision-making, but in the event of the collapse of the "Vojvodine Development Bank", 140m euros in secured deposits is the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, not the province. Who's going to pay for the savings, the entrepreneurs if the Vojvodina Development Bank fails? The province government will not pay for it, all Serbian citizens and those from Somboro will pay for it, and those living in Vranj, Nis, Leskovac. So it's not exactly so that the province government can decide on this issue entirely, independently and without any responsibility. Of course, he is a majority owner and has the right to make a decision, but in the event of a mistake, responsibility is enormous, and damage is paid by all Serbian citizens, not only the citizens of Vojvodina. So, in the event of success, then public debt is paid to the citizens of Vojvodina. In case it succeeds with the new 150m euros, to create a pulsating bank, it is then a responsibility for success, i.e. a credit for success and the citizens of Vojvodina can say – we gave 300m euros of our money, but we have a "Development Bank". What if it doesn't work if the bank goes bankrupt? Then 140m euros are paid by all Serbian citizens, by paying out money to secure deposits, savings and depositors, and in that case 100m euros of unsecured deposits are lost. Among these unsecured deposits are not just the AP Vojvodina's money. Some 2.2 billion dinars of the province of Vojvodina are held in Vojvodina Development Bank. The city of Belgrade, for some reason, holds 600m dinars in the Vojvodine Development Bank, held significantly more, so they have now withdrawn. They also hold public enterprises such as Vojvodina, local self-governments that are on my information to hold deposits there, such as Zrenjanin, Subotica, Pancheva, Kovin and others. In the case of Vojvodine Development Bank bankruptcy, all these local self-governments are losing their deposits. Is anyone ready from you, or from the province to take that responsibility? That's all I'm talking about and I have the right to talk about, I'm warning only as the minister of finance of the Republic of Serbia that it would be irresponsible, to capitalise on a bank that has no great chance of success. If you do not believe the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia, let the province government look at the IMF report. I only ask that there be no politician in this case, but that economists should ask themselves and be responsible for the citizens, not just the province, because I am responsible as the Republic's finance minister to Serbian citizens who would have to pay for the damage if bad governance continued. If someone says it's not bad governance if there's 75% of non-charging loans, even though someone says that the economy is in a bad state, so it doesn't pay 75% back, the question is why in other banks it's not so close to being so high in charge of the loan. Why can't you just admit it was bad governance? Whether it was in the period "Metals Bank", "Vojvodine Development Bank", that some investigation will determine, there's no need for us to talk here. Whoever's responsible for the bad placements should respond, regardless of the name and the last name, function. I said once again, I advocate the full responsibility of all those who have ruined Agrobank and New Agrobank, Vojvodina Development Bank, any of these state banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3251	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexandra Jerkov, is asking for a word. Miss Jerkov, here's what you wanted, on what basis are you answering? You just reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You started off with some other discussion that just took us past the subject again. You'll have, since you're on the speaker's list, you'll have a chance at it, and now we can really open up a replica of the replica and please allow me to continue our work. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3252	The President-in-Office, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a law on the takeover of property and obligations of certain banks in order to preserve the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, is without a doubt a well-needed, absolutely extorted solution affected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But such a situation, I don't think there can be a reason for unproductive political debates that don't contribute to the solution to the current problem. The first signals of the necessity of such a legal solution were from the very beginning of the global economic crisis in 2008, i.e. in 2009, and unfortunately that law was withdrawn from the procedure. Perhaps today the problems we face would be much smaller. On the other hand, in the meantime, if we look at parallel solutions in certain countries in the environment and in the world, we can conclude from this that they are very different and that there is no universally good solution that we could rewrite, but that practice itself also points to the necessity of such a bill. He's certainly absolutely, in this situation we're being extorted, because we're bringing him in right now when it's necessary to protect the money of all depositors in the New Agrobank. Besides, that's what the promoter put out. However, what I want to say is that because of this situation and this way of solving it, indeed, MPs cannot be satisfied, nor can I personally be happy that this is how I solve problems in the financial system, i.e. the banking system of the Republic of Serbia. I think that for every commendation, the government of the Republic of Serbia has access, because this law is primarily the result of a decisive reaction from the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Prime Minister, Mr Dacic and the restoring ministry. They obviously learned the best lessons from the previous period, as it should be said that any kind of hesitation or indecision in this situation can cost all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the financial system in the Republic of Serbia. This is not an accident, I believe that no one can dispute, that in the first months of work this government has fully demonstrated a dominant feature that is determined, timely and uncompromisingly dealing with all problems in all areas of life in the Republic of Serbia. In a situation where "New Agrobank" loses about 2m euros a month and has just over 10m euros in cash, it is absolutely clear that it is necessary to do something, bring adequate measures to stabilise the financial system and thus preserve the trust of all, primarily citizens and businesses in the banking system. What follows is, above all, that all those depositors in the New Agrobank, as much as on Monday, have the opportunity to dispose of their money. Just by proposing this special law introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia is making a key step towards establishing a system way of stabilising the banking system, through the creation of a legal framework for implementing final and sustainable solutions in the future. It is quite symptomatic that in a week of savings, 250 million secured deposits and around 111 million unsecured deposits, the government of the Republic of Serbia would be threatened in this way by the proposed law. The existing legal framework so far has allowed for the country's minimal interventions in the banking sector, such as the 2009 assessment and, back to, some kind of short-term emergency solutions. Now we're witnessing that it wasn't enough anyway. The proposed solutions in this law are subject to criticism and may be formulated in some other form or form. There are amendments that have been submitted and the SPS is ready to take part in the debate in particular and try to complete this bill. It should be kept in mind the urgency that has been caused above all by the fact and by the hesitation of previous institutions and organs, that is, the hesitation of the human factor when it comes to "New Agrobank" and the situation where we have over 80% of the credit portfolio that is not chargeable. Also, if a large part of the assets were overrated and not adequate, it would require that they respond really quickly. It also calls for the investigation, i.e. the authorities to establish and process all those responsible for this situation in the New Agrobank. This law will certainly, as long as it is adopted, provide a transparent and clear legal framework for the Post Office to, as one more stable state bank, take over in a clear and transparent manner part of the assets and liabilities of the New Agrobank, part of employees, part of branches or exposures. It will, in all likelihood, contribute to the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia and contribute dominantly to the confidence of all citizens in the banking system after this process. It has been repeated many times today that trust is one of the basic preconditions for good banking.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3253	Do you agree to take a break? I'm setting a break. [[After a break.]] Since the break time has passed, I really have an obligation to continue. Mr. Kasalovic, do you agree to speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3255	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respecting the specificity of the situation, and I would also like to make a constructive contribution to the further debate, I will conclude my previous discussion, which was interrupted by an emergency situation, with another conclusion that the SPS Parliament Club really appreciates the provision in Article 2. The bill, which stipulates that the NBS must give a positive opinion that the entire process of takeover, i.e. the whole mechanism that prescribes this bill, would work. For this reason, I really believe that we must trust the institutions, that we must build their authority, especially such institutions as the NBS, and that it is truly guaranteed that even now, in part, suspected abuses in the application of this law can occur. I think that first dam will be the only institution to control the functioning of the banking system. That is why I urge once again to be politically responsible, when it comes to such sensitive and urgent solutions in the area of the financial sector. They are indeed a reflection of the real situation in the Republic of Serbia and should avoid such a kind of discussion in conditions where the risk of mistrust is really necessary, to the least possible extent and at least and MPs should not, and in public, dispel any kind of panic and mistrust of citizens, but rather support the efforts and determined reaction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and thus send a message to all citizens, businesses, that they can truly trust the banking system, that is, the entire financial system of the Republic of Serbia. To conclude, the SPS MPs believe that this bill is indeed a necessary and extorted solution, but that such a decisive reaction by the government deserves support. We urge that we all contribute together to strengthening the integrity of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, because this is the best way for all citizens, businessmen, investors to really trust the banking and financial system of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the SPS parliamentary club will support this bill in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3256	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Teodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3257	I've applied for my word, but I don't think there are really any conditions to talk about these situations when there's no minister. I don't know who to ask, and there are some things I'd like to say. I don't think there's any working conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3258	I have information that the minister will be here any minute. If you want, we'll wait until he gets here, and then I'll give you my word. Mrs. Vlahovic, do you want to sign up? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3259	Dear Vice-Presidents, Vice-President, honourable ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, when we talk today about a bill on the takeover of property and obligations of certain banks in order to preserve the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, this law will enter the book of the record from the point of view of the name and it is hard to really remember it. What I have to say is that the reasons for the law being passed, as well as the objectives set by this law, are difficult for the DS parliamentary group to refuse to support such a thing. So, the stability of the financial system is about keeping citizens' deposits, preserving or improving the liquidity and adequateness of banks' capital, in particular in this case we are interested in those banks that have public capital in their possession. Normally, in addition to what is said and what we all know, and in the environment, many countries have helped to cope more easily with the challenges that this difficult time of the global economic crisis has put before the economy and the banks. The recapitalisation of banks was happening all around us, and the fact is that not only did the state capitalise in some way on banks in our country, that other banks whose shareholders were private owners, i.e. foreign banks or funds and other institutions did so. All at this time, but also in the way of showing the adequateness of the capital in ranking the liquidity of clients, etc., the application of certain new methods of bank work also showed in a different way the insolvency of certain clients and all of this seemed to have to be recapitalised by banks. Normally, where the state wants to preserve the majority share, to remain a majority shareholder, that's what the state has to do. From that point of view, it is important to say that this cannot be a questionable aid to the banking sector at a difficult time, especially banks do not carry, and neither the bank authorities are the only ones to bear the blame for the difficult situation in banks. Many problems in the economy, so I'm directly communicating here with the resolution minister in the area, also, in addition to finance and economy, we know how many companies in restructuring are on the burden of these banks having problems. Restructure issues, meaning companies, companies, restructuring companies would solve some of these banks' problems, and much better capital adequateness would be. It is precisely from the point of view that many banks are provided with appropriate collateral, meaning agricultural land that cannot be touched from the front of the point of view now because companies are in restructuring, and especially banks could not seek a foreign investor, because we have a law that prevents the sale of land to foreigners by 2014. What the state seems to be able to afford, some private entities are also disabled in some other rights. It is basic and natural for the government, including the National Assembly, to take all measures to consolidate the banking system and thus take measures to strengthen our financial system. The question opens – is this such high and well-set goals, can this be solved in this way and with this law? Can we, under the code that we're going to help one bank this way as quickly as possible, overnight, is it possible not to look at all the consequences that such a solution can bring? This speaks from the point of view of the legal system, from the point of view of legal certainty. With this proposal, we rule out what is directly, which is an indirect minimum of eight provisions. These provisions in the law are very important in our legal system – the Business Society Act, the Bankage Act, three or four laws in the banking sector, two tax laws, the Bond Relations Act, which is for all of us the roof law and the law that is most lasting in our country. What's that? This isn't just cleanliness of the legal system because we lawyers want it all to be in place. It's a normal break-in into the legal system, it's making a lot of uncertainty. This uncertainty will be viewed in a far-reaching way, and in that part, I disagree with the part of the argument that this law does not have a destimulative character. In our opinion, he's very detimulative. Why is he destimulative? For the simple reason we know how important public-private partnership is. If that's important to us for further development and if that's one of the kinds of investment attracts, then how is someone going to invest one more dinar here, if they know that one percent of the state's participation is owned enough to rule out all the rights that are concluded under the contract? There's no one else allowed to invest for the simple reason they don't have any security. I don't know who the new Agrobank is. I've heard it in the campaign that was, I've heard it before. It's an old story, everyone's been informed, and I heard you, Minister, saying in the campaign, you mentioned it. The question of "New Agrobank" is not new and not since yesterday. Also days of saving, or weeks of saving, is not something that happens to us all of a sudden. It's the same thing you expected. The question is now – could this be solved in a different way, if only "New Agrobank" were to be solved? Could it be, since in this case, the majority shareholders are the Republic of Serbia at the Post Office Savings, which directly, indirectly, as this law would say, and that means that 96% of all the NBS data, and "New Agrobank" is exclusively owned by the agency. So, the Parliament's decision and the application of all our laws that regulate it, they're not controversial and they could have been made. Also, in this case, I don't think it's a dispute or a NBS decision. Just before it started, we could, according to our current laws, solve the attachment of the New Agrobank Post Office. In this way, the law opens up a much longer period of possibility of permanent attachment, merger and constant uncertainty as to what will happen tomorrow anywhere where the Republic of Serbia has direct or indirect participation. That it is not just banks where the stock control package is in the portfolio of the Republic of Serbia, says the fact that the Republic of Serbia has direct or indirect participation, without any percentage. If I don't caricate, it can be 1% and 0.1%, it's enough that this law can be applied. What is very discussionable is the fact that Article 5 does not discuss the state's grant of irrevocable financial support for the takeover of a bank that is mostly owned by the state. The big question is what kind of justification will have just to give money for taking over private banks, here mentioned - French, Italian, etc. Articles 7 and 8 place the total inability of the bank shareholders' assembly to be taken over. Those rights that are given to the bank's acquirer, the bank that's being taken over, are practically avoided by the general assembly of shareholders. Yes, it takes procedure and it takes some time for the assembly to meet, but I don't see what the interest of the shareholders' assembly in this case was different from the interest of the state of the Republic of Serbia? It's all in the best interest of the bank. Considering all this, this law is passed indefinitely. There is no one use, nor is it the law, as we have already had examples here in the Assembly, that members be brought in with a duration of 40 days. This law is passed indefinitely. So he will continue until he is challenged by the Constitutional Court or a new parliamentary majority does not change him. Following a careful discussion today of what the legislator and some supporters of the law are more likely to get the impression that this law was not passed because of "New Agrobank", but that it was just purposeful, in the week of saving, to do a reputational damage to other banks. When colleagues here are referred enough, uninformed, who had to read the law in a hurry to talk about some things about banks are right or wrong, I can say they are incorrect, but I think the minister is responsible not for the part of the banks, but for all banks. So the reputation risk is very important for the work of every business bank. By repeating some things, by expressing doubts, it directly affects the liquidity of a bank that is not desirable. I have to say, it's been checked. After every discussion where some things are brought out, forced, doubtful, people are scared every time they see and financially, unfortunately, negative effects. What I'd like to say more in this context is that not all of our discussions can be one-timers, nor ministers, nor MPs. We have to have some continuity. The possibility was mentioned here that the Vojvodine Development Bank could replace an appropriate development fund or another appropriate fund in Vojvodina. We know for sure that Article 5. The law on banks says no one, and we know who's the creator of that law, who hasn't established the law can't lend credit. In what way funds in the way of some of our deals... Why hasn't anyone found a microcredit law out of the economy, we can call it whatever it is? What would enable the provinces to work uninterruptedly without constant pressure, are they in accordance with the law, are they in accordance with the Statute, etc? What's very important is that when we talk about something that needs to help banks, we have to have responsibility and help all banks. The impression is that one bank is more desirable and the other is less desirable. The explanation says it won't disrupt competition. How can they not disrupt competition when they attack certain banks directly from the pay phone? He's doubting himself. Even future solutions are suspected. Not to mention the data that's at the NBS as an official secret, the data that hasn't been delivered to the ones that need it, that's here. On the first occasion, I will ask Mrs. Jorgenko Tabakovic, the governor who complained to the MPs that she had indications that there was some information coming out of the NBS that shouldn't, did some information come out here, or might the minister have misused her trust? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3260	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to my fellow Members and Ministers and I cannot say that I am pleased to have one of these laws today in the debate and in the procedure. As banal as it sounds, this law is unfortunately extorted. I'd like to ask all my colleagues that what happened before with the banks who lost their license to work do not connect with this. I can understand that there was also a reason that the state with these banks was in an unfavourable position, that it often financed both the state and certain economic and other requirements that had been imposed before the UN sanctions, so they ended up in a very difficult situation. This is now about banks that operate under new laws, by new regulations, and which have abused, that is, the managers of these banks misused trust when they came to certain functions. I can say that they have been misused indirectly, because those elected by some will by citizens most abused the trust of these same citizens. What's the point? One bank that lost its license to work by the NBS during an extremely short period has placed funds that can no longer be recovered. That's the point. It's nothing else. Not only did she place her capital, but she also placed the capital of the citizens who had savings with these banks and placed the capital of the economic operators who had both savings or were carrying out payment traffic through the bank. This is now one problem that this law only partially solves. It can be said that this is a systemic problem, because those who took money from Agrobank did not take it, to develop their economic activity, rather than rob Agrobank. How else can it be called the owner of one company that raises credit from the bank and transfers credit to another legal person, and then challenges bankruptcy in its legal enterprise and prevents the bank from collecting its claims? What do you say other than that the accomplices are the ones who run that bank if they gave that same owner the opportunity for other business entities to raise loans? So they knew he was doing it over and over again. I also find it a little strange that certain banks for special purposes, belonging to a territorial group, are performing their work in a limited part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Someone says the Vojvodina Development Bank is important for Vojvodina for agriculture. What's the name of "Agrobank" and what was her primary function? Where did the money from Agrobank end up? At least in agriculture. When it comes to bank liquidity and capitalisation, it is possible, but not when you have claims in 80% or more that are not payable, it is possible only in the situation if the bank has placed funds in remunerated claims and in some period of time that money should be returned to the bank and is missing for its further financial activities on the market. If we are to constantly cover the losses caused by market rules rather than because market rules were not respected and the law was violated and that someone treated state money and state capital as if it were someone else's, then there is no point in talking about some capitalisation. Just when it comes to Agrobank, there's a system error, and it's scheduled for the whole state. All the instruments that were supposed to prevent abuse in the Agrobank have failed and can't convince me that it was an accident. That's exactly the kind of coincidence I find hard to believe. To deliberately give loans that are non-refundable, the NBS does nothing about it, does not check the liquidity of that bank, and when it comes to the moment when it can no longer be hidden, by the time the money needs to be returned to one of the investors then the NBS intervenes, withdraws the work permit and then makes one extremely suspicious transaction with the establishment of the New Agrobank. It's nothing else. It just shows that with all the previous actions done by Agrobank, someone from the government of the Republic of Serbia was involved. How else to explain that the same leadership has been transferred to "New Agrobank" and that state money has been given in 130m-euro charters, except that the story is being covered up and that at least part of the debt to the citizens is being paid back until someone sees what they're going to do with the story. There's been a change of government, so that scenario couldn't happen until the end. It's nothing else. It's just that. How much damage does the Republic of Serbia and citizens have? In addition to the money lost and the state will have to pay back the depositors, means citizens and businesses, even greater damage has been done. How do you think someone is investing in their capital recently, whether from abroad or from Serbia, in banks where the majority is owned by the state, or the Republic of Serbia. Hardly. Now we come into one situation that our banks, what's left, will be in one difficult position and will have to rely on the state. If the question is asked – what if we don't pass such a law, and if citizens start going around the counters that are closed, looking for their money that isn't there, no one asks the question that this is the biggest problem of financial liquidity in the whole market, because a citizen doesn't understand as much in the financial market as people who deal with it. If he can't raise one in Agrobank or New Agrobank, he'll think he can't go to any other bank. That's where the bank's stakes start, nothing else. This could lead all banks, even those who are healthy, to put into a situation to question their liquidity, and even those who would succeed in paying the stakes of citizens in these banks, would cause a completely different problem, which is an increase in the price of capital in the market. It will become much more expensive loans for both the economy and the citizens. If the businessmen start doubting the banking system, here's the gray economy. How would you come to be? It would simply stop the payment traffic between banks, start the cash exchange of goods and money. That's why a law like this has to be passed. For reasons to make it clear to all citizens, who are now damaged and those who would be damaged in the future, that the state guarantees the roles they play in banks, and the state has to guarantee. Because it has issued bank operating permits and because its body, the National Bank, controls the business of banks and the supervisory supervision of banks operating on this market. If a law like this hadn't been passed, I'm sure one of these scenarios would have come. We would have had a similar story, as we had with Dafiment Bank and Zedimir Vasiljevic's bank and all the other banks that caused serious damage to both the state and the reputation of its banking system, and probably something similar would have happened, like in the 1990s, that the citizen had certain deposited funds, particularly deviable, in the business banks and could not have raised them back. If this occurs as a rule, the story, a single bank, be assured that it will be transferred slowly to other banks, in the sense that fear on the market will prevail and that citizens will withdraw their roles from the banks. That's why I don't think it's okay to even this case when it comes to this law, state and private banks. Private banks where capital is not a state capital take care of who they give credit to, whether it meets the conditions, what its credit rating is and what means of guarantee it can offer. If that was the case with Agrobank, and now I'm hearing another bank that doesn't meet the conditions for performance, we wouldn't have a law like this today. In the day of the vote, the SNS will support this law, precisely because of the possibility of having such adverse consequences if this law is not passed. I hope this is the last time a law like this will be applied at least in some future period, because I expect the state banks to be privatized in one part. Until they are privatised to do their job properly, not to allow extraprofits, extra earnings to some others who have so far been linked to the former regime and to the departure of the regime. I hope these abuses stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3262	Thank you. We move on to the debate of the MPs according to the application for a word. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3263	I would like only in a few words to supplement what my colleague, Dr Marinkovic, said, so I will not owe much. When the debate takes so many hours, then almost everything that's important, probably, is already said, so I'm going to ask my colleagues not to mind if I repeat something that someone, from the previous speakers, has already said. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia supports the bill for reasons of urgent action to prevent a crisis in the banking sector. In addition, every serious state is tasked with preventing any instability in the financial sector. This is the first task of the Central Bank, i.e. in this case of the National Bank of Serbia, which is one of the main objectives, but certainly represents the responsibility of the Minister of Finance and Industry. We see this measure as temporary, while the crisis is going on, because we believe that the state should not play too active a role, in terms of excessive interventionism, in the banking sector. The continuation of this measure following the resolution of the problematic situation, which was discussed by Minister Dinkic, and the country's exit from the economic crisis, in our opinion, would have negative implications for further development of the banking sector and could send a bad message to foreign investors in this sector and other sectors. However, we believe, and this could be understood from the presentation of the Secretary-General, that this is a temporary solution, and in that sense we welcome it. In order for the Agrobank situation to be absolutely clear to the citizens, I am thinking primarily of those who have not seen the previous parts of this debate, I must say that this is not a problem that arose yesterday, so now the government is solving it by emergency procedure, but that the agony with Agrobank has been going on for more than a year. About a year ago, after an emergency check, an extremely low value of the equivalent capital of the then "Agrobank" was recognised, which was a clear signal of the coming crisis in this bank. Given the situation that, at that moment, the bank is found, it will be that this problem dates a little further back to the past, with either someone missing it earlier, not to say in time, recognizes or hides the real state of it. This is, of course, the job of some of the other authorities in this country, so the Parliament doesn't have to deal with it, and I won't talk about it any further. What I want to say and what I think is important is that today, at the end of 2012, we talk about the problem, and that should be understood by citizens, who were probably created in the first half of 2011, if not earlier. The state, meanwhile, tried to remedy this problem with temporary measures, but thus, realistically, its resolution was only delayed and the case was inherited by this government as something that it had to solve. Today we are in a situation where "New Agrobank" represents a potential initial drop in the emergence of a serious crisis in the banking sector and a return to the old pain of this sector, which is a loss of confidence for Serbian citizens in the banking sector. You probably all know, and I believe that the citizens of Serbia know this very well, how much energy has been invested over the last ten years to restore what kind of trust in the banking sector in Serbia. As a result of this 12-year work, today we have very high value of saving citizens, unfortunately, not dinar, mostly foreign currency, but we still have very significant savings for citizens. If a bank were allowed to go bankrupt or endanger the banking sector in Serbia, this process would turn with, I believe, inconceivable consequences. It is something we must not allow, and that is what these governments of this Assembly, as serious civil service, are absolutely certain, and will probably be confirmed on Friday, will not allow it to happen. In order to further demystify and explain this problem to the citizens, I remind you that we have a week of savings that is composed of "New Agrobank", with a founding capital of only 25m euros, according to the former prime minister, and according to mathematics carried out by the current finance and economy minister, I would say something over a hundred million founding capital, could not, I say, survive. It would not be able to offer by chance, even if it could survive, enough attractive interest, and would be expected to be a major outflow of deposits, i.e. the escape of capital from the bank. That would certainly cause this bank's collapse and potential chaos in the banking sector. From all this, and from the definition of bridge bank, as established by "New Agrobank", whose duration is scheduled to be up to six months, again according to the former prime minister, it follows that the country's emergency intervention was necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3264	Thank you. The next reported MP is Aleksandar Jugovic, but he is not there. The word has a national emissary Jelena Travar-Miljević. You're giving up? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3265	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We're trying to resolve the dispute that has arisen in connection with Vojvodina Development Bank, and I see that we're talking from different perspectives. If there's a chance, I'll still talk about it, but since it's not the Vojvodina Development Bank, or at least I hope the Vojvodina Development Bank isn't the subject of this law, we'll see if there's gonna be time later on to talk. It was said, of course, many big words, however, that what is the essence of today's proposal and what is the essence of the law that has come before the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today. The point is, according to what we have heard, that today the Ministry of Finance and Minister Dinkic expects this assembly to allow it to pass existing laws, which already regulate this area, some MPs have said both by the Constitution and, certainly, beyond their powers, without clearly defined criteria, conditions and rules, based on some of their own free estimates, in the future, decide that any of the banks that have a certain part of it, we do not know exactly how much state capital can be taken over by any other bank, if Minister Dinkic considers that the bank poses a serious threat to the financial system and financial stability. Not only that, but this other bank, which will take over a bank assessed on the basis of unclear parameters to pose a threat, will receive the state's grants for the transaction it intends to conduct. Of course, it is clear to everyone that there are several problems that exist in this law and that, of course, LSV will not be able to support this law. First of all, we've heard here that this law is passed for the Post Office to take over Agrobank on the eve of the savings week. But that's not true. If that were the case, we'd see those two words written in this law. In this law, there would be an explicit mention of Agrobank, and in this law there would be an explicit mention of the Post Office, but that is not the case. In fact, this is about establishing a rule, and this is an extremely dangerous rule, where Mr Dinkic is trying to grant himself those powers that neither under the Constitution nor under the law can, and according to the experiences that we have with him, some would say – he should not have. Secondly, what is missing from this law, we have tried to regulate it with amendments, are criteria when a bank can be taken over by another bank. What does a serious threat to the stability of the financial system mean? What kind of legal category is that? Is there a serious threat, a less serious threat, a non-serious threat, that conditions should be met, how is this estimated and who estimates it? There's a law on banks that defines banks in a very precise way. Why is the same type of bank categorization not being used in this law? Why are the criteria in which this takeover is absolutely unclear, if not nonexistent? The absence of these clear and legal criteria is particularly dangerous given that Mr Dinkic is a person who is currently a finance minister, because the experience we have with him, especially when it comes to reforming the banking sector, warns us that we should doubt either his good intentions or his abilities. One of these two was missing in the past and therefore it is very important and precise to determine the criteria under which these banks can be taken over. These grants are actually state money, which in theory, as we have now heard, can also be given to some private bank, domestic or foreign, we have also heard about foreign banks, in order to take over state banks, banks owned by the province, banks for special purposes, etc. Do you have any idea what we're worried about? Do you remember Governor Jelasic who, on the day he stopped being governor, started working at a private foreign bank? Is it clear to you why at least it's weird that state money is given to private banks to take over state banks? It's something that, of course, opens up space for serious and large corruption, especially because of the lack of criteria. That's why we find this unacceptable. The takeover of these banks, several MPs talked about it, is done without the consent of shareholders, depositors, other creditors, without the decisions of the bank's parliament, which will, of course, demote anyone who has any idea of investing in the banking system, because the government, once, seems to be able to take over their property overnight, and the other bank becomes the owner of it. Of course, Mr. Dinkic, you need to understand that you cannot share, offer, transfer, take over and give away other people's property. Start to give your gifts, to share yours, to take yours, and our property, please, leave it alone. You were talking about the Vojvodine Development Bank, how the government of the Vojvodina wastes money. If the people of Vojvodina wanted you to decide on their money, you'd at least pass the censorship in the province. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3266	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3267	If the people of Vojvodina knew what the money of Vojvodina Development Bank was spent on, you would never have crossed the censorship. Unfortunately, the problem is that the people of Vojvodina have no idea how the province's government is spending money on Vojvodina Development Bank. Can you answer me what is the interest of the city of Belgrade to hold the money at Vojvodina Development Bank? What does the Vojvodina Development Bank have to do with Belgrade? Why are they holding 600 million dinars? They know the bank is in front of bankruptcy and they still have 600 million dinars. Someone asked them to put it there. Don't you find it strange that the bank financed a 32m-euro DS campaign? Isn't it strange to you that the bank has a leadership that has no face that at the time when the National Bank came out with a report that they have a negative capital, that 140m euros in savings from citizens is threatened by the fact that the bank has no money to pay them, but has to add 150m euros to patch up the hole, that the bank has money to pay 500,000 euros to Zvonko Nikezic's "CES Mekon" company whose son was once the finance minister of this state, the son of a man who gets 500 000 euros for the plan to heal the "Vojvodine Development Bank", who has a dubiosis that must be covered with the debt of the citizens of Vojvodina for 150m euros? It's not politics anymore, it's crime. Who's afraid in Vojvodina, in the province government to re-examine "Vojvodina Development Bank"? Why couldn't anyone have entered the Vojvodina Development Bank by now to see how 75% of non-refundable plasmas came into existence? Let's see who approved the loans, under what conditions? It's going to be a big difference when one day the public finds out between what's being heard about "Agrobanks," where some private, say, entrepreneurs, were getting loans, let's see the structure of these 75% of non-refundable loans. I expect the Central Bank to give us an answer to that, but, of course, some other government authorities. Why is this irresponsible what you're saying? Because that money on the basis of which these loans are given is not the money of the province of Vojvodina as a state institution, it is the money of the citizens of the people of Vojvodina, it is the money of the duchys who were forced to hold the money there politically while the city of Novi Sad has over a billion dinars there and cannot take them out. Ask the mayor of Novi Sad if he can withdraw the deposit from the Vojvodine Development Bank? He can't. Why can't he? No money, no liquidity. So Belgrade can't either, he'd be happy to pull now, if he could, but he can't. So it was necessary to place deposits while the bank funded the DS campaign, while it approved various political projects, and now instead of being embarrassed and silent, not to say anything, you're talking about someone there right now... No one's gonna touch the Duke's property, no one wants to touch the Duke's property. The problem is there was abuse here, which was a crime, which someone had to answer for. Why? It is impossible to make a loss at such a small bank of 300m euros. That abnormal man has to place money to make two to three years' worth of 300m euros in losses. That's impossible. That bank isn't systemically. It is less than 0.3% of Serbia's total banking system. You understand that Post Office has only 1.2% of the market. It's a small bank with 300 million losses. It's a scandal. I think your colleagues from the party with whom you fled the assembly today and there's not one... Okay, this one, I don't know if their member... By the way, the deposit of the city of Pancheva is in the Vojvodine Development Bank. You know why I'm saying this? I'm saying this because whenever a budget is discussed, the MEPs from Vojvodina say, "Why doesn't the Republic give money to Vojvodina?" Personally, I think that's a good question, but the opposite question -- why does Vojvodina capture a billion and a hundred million dinars to the Vojvodina municipalities that they can't move from the Vojvodina Development Bank just to keep the political project going? When a letter is sent to Pajtic and to the provincial secretary that both the IMF and the Ministry of Finance believe it should be interrupted with this agony, and they are free to say by taking money from all Serbian citizens, especially Vojvodina, because capitalisation means... Do you know how the recapitalisation is coming back? Bonds of 15 billion dinars are printed, and then citizens pay taxes, and these taxes enter the province's budget and thus finance these bonds for the next 10 years. So, for the next 10 years, it takes an experiment to cover the bad jobs of the political furniture from the previous period. I think it's an extremely expensive price and that price must not be paid by citizens or the Vojvodina or Serbia. Why I'm talking about Serbian citizens, I'm going to mention that one more time. Therefore, if the bank is bankrupt, the obligation to pay off deposits has the Republic of Serbia from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I do not want Serbian citizens to pay for the political adventures of the province's government. And this is a political adventure. What was done with the "Vojvodine Development Bank", and only what is intended to be done, is a super political adventure and the greatest irresponsibility that exists – to charge additionally for 150m euros in the province, to put money into a bank that even the previous 150m euros did not help and to create a false hope that those who hold money think that everything is okay there, and essentially, a paper that is funded every six months from tax revenues is not being deposited, that it can be paid for savings. So this bank doesn't have a perspective for us. It is necessary to transfer these deposits to any other bank that can accept it, to determine the percentage of the auction that is the bank, without any preference. That bank that allows the province and the Republic to lower the interest rate on bond issue, the bank should take over deposits, whichever of these strong, serious banks. It's a solution that any serious government would support. Our government is serious in the Republic. I expect the province to be serious, too. I don't see anyone here, though, you're not a representative, you're a direct representative of the province government, and I'm not telling you in person. I'm talking about the province government. I hope there'll be some seriousness, some responsibilities. Someone thinks that if another 150m euros are put in, they won't be able to control these 75% of uncharging loans. That's the one that's wrong. Those tracks can't be buried. Even when the bank is being recapitalised, it doesn't mean it'll be able to run away from the responsibility of the one who's afraid to investigate how the money from Vojvodina Development Bank has been placed. That can't be prevented. On the other hand, when you mention the reform of the banking system I carried out 10 years ago, I'm proud of her. Why? Because unlike this province's furniture and this previous republican furniture, I didn't take the citizens' money to settle the debts of the failed banks. We have literally made a much stronger banking system with minimum costs, with strong capital adequacy, so that in just the last two years, 2010 and 2011, there will be a collapse, but fortunately, not everywhere but only in banks where the state has run a political campaign and politically manage them. Someone asked the MPs here how it was possible that the state was interested in taking over 100% of the assets of Agrobank when 80% was private capital, if it had no significant impact on it? It doesn't make sense, which the government gave 100m euros then to a private bank. A little while ago, you said you wanted us to believe that the deposits of Vojvodina Development Bank were transferred to a private or foreign bank. The government, the former finance ministry has put 100m euros into the former failed bank. Agrobank was a private bank, until May of this year, 80% of the ownership of private shareholders. Why did they do that? They were afraid to go ahead of the elections, to tell the public that the Central Bank was not doing its job, that the finance ministry was not doing its job, that they had released their losses and to hide the losses under the carpet, did even more damage by putting in 100m euros, caused that now 250m euros must be spent to ensure all deposits that must be secured under the law. So, out of the desire to hide those who ruined Agrobank, where at that time the biggest fault was in the private sector, and I don't know what the government was messing with and protecting those people from the private sector, if it didn't have any direct personal contact with them, there were costs that were multiplying. As for the Vojvodine Development Bank, it's a different story, it's completely state-owned for a long time and its recapitalisation to some capital investment funds, only that added oil to the fire, it was a squared error. You can only recapitalize the bank with fresh money, you can't do serious recapitalisation unless it's a very large balance sheet sum, no paper, value paper, and let alone some capital investment fund clients, it's only a reform, accountingly hidden, to go to elections with a strong "Vojvodine Development Bank", no problem, allegedly in "Agrobanks", and then the account comes today. I'm just warning that this account that's been made and that someone has to answer for, it has to be paid, but I'm warning you, don't make any new bills. The province's government wants to issue another 150m euros of unnecessary bills, I warn. It's my responsibility as finance minister today, and four months ago I didn't have that responsibility, and now it's my duty to warn you. Any other discussion that goes in the political direction, and if we wanted to solve this politically, why would we offer to save from the republic the deposits of the AP Vojvodina, where people from another party are in power. We offered because we don't care what parties they're from, but it's important that they don't destroy the "Vojvodine Development Bank" anymore, so they don't kill these 140m euros in deposits of the citizens of the economy, craftsmen, small businesses, as many as there are, well, 67,000 people are concerned. These people are not politicians, they're ordinary people, ordinary craftsmen, ordinary citizens. So, 67,000 people, and now someone's playing with it, takes money from how many more people to cover their own mistakes. This is a serious story. Don't laugh. If you were funny...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3268	Mr Dinkic, please don't speak directly to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3269	Really, I don't know, it's just that maybe people don't understand these numbers, it's hundreds of millions of euros, and it's not for laughs. Just because your people laughed at things like this, we now have huge problems to solve these issues, and citizens have big problems. This is not for laughing, we are working very seriously here, we will continue to work, recommend, since you are from the province, not in power, but in living here, recommend to colleagues from your party in the province that the lack of policy in this case, because enough is the policy with the banks, let them do the right thing, let them accept the transfer of deposits to whatever strong bank, in order to save 67,000 citizens of Vojvodina, in order to save from the further borrowing of the citizen with 150m euros and to prevent the risk of a possible collapse after a year or two days or new capitalisation. The capitalizations, one after the other, that don't solve anything, don't make any sense. If one capitalisation had succeeded, I wouldn't have said this, none had succeeded so far in the last two years, and the capitalisation of 150m euros has already been done. So, serious things are at stake, but to whom the joke is, let's joke, I hope this assembly will seriously consider this law and adopt it as soon as possible to allow the transfer to the Vojvodina Development Bank, under the same conditions as the Agrobank. It's a really fair offer from the Republic government, but as long as someone wants to go on an adventure, we can't stop it, at which point the price won't pay any political option in the country, but ordinary citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3270	The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3271	Infringement of Article 27, which obliges the chair to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. The minister, like any participant in the session, is obliged to respect each member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which makes it impossible for him to address MPs with shame, you need to be silent or direct to MPs, disqualifying them on any basis. The chairman is obliged to warn the participants of the session because it is unacceptable during the National Assembly session. I have a lot of understanding for the emotion that occurs with each of us when we speak, because it is important to point out your position, it is important to formulate it passionately and correctly, but before, there was no reason why Minister Mladjan Dinkic as a participant in the session violates the Rules of Procedure and insults the MPs, since there is no reason to eat, but at all, about the liquidation of the "Vojvodina Development Bank". If she failed to agree with the Prime Minister and the Finance Secretary, today she succeeded when the finance minister presented this many arguments during the session, this much data, whether they were all for exporting, it is known what follows. So there's no reason to eat, the idea has worked, this session is obviously and designed to put pressure on the liquidation of Vojvodina Development Bank. There is reason only for the peaceful pleasure, which Minister Mladjan Dinkic could share with us, instead of thoughtless, I hope, the desire to insult the MPs, to violate the Rules of Procedure with your permission.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3272	I disagree with you, as you noticed, I warned Minister Dinkic at one point not to address the MPs directly. So, I'm trying to make sure this session really has its turn. The word is Mr. Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3273	I have also announced myself before Mrs Comic with regard to pointing to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and Article 107. Rules of Procedure. Believe me, until this moment I thought I was a national MP in the Republic of Serbia and that there would be no division of whether I am from Vojvodina or from another part of Serbia. For the first time I've been called here, did I come from this or that territory of Serbia to the highest House to try to be a MP, if possible, to help fix the bill, to point out what I think should be pointed out. At this point, I am surprised and bidding on whether or not I am a particular party, and as much as I am interested in Mr. Secretary, I am a member of the DS, but there is no reason for the minister to comment on his reasons, his views, and to comment on whether he is a member of either party or of the other party. I'd be more interested in being a member of the 1st. The bill defined whether this law applies to all banks in which the Republic of Serbia has direct or indirect participation or where it has control participation. There are no words - control participation. There is much else to discuss in the principle debate and in the debate under the amendments, but I think it is least and least simply not acceptable in this way that Mr. Minister, by explaining his views, may try to conclude in advance what the MP will say when he comes to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3274	The word has Alexander Jerkov, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3275	I thank you, Madam Chairman, the minister has directly referred me to the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3276	I'm sorry, Miss Jerkov, I was wrong, Mr. Shain reported in on a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. The 107th is already advertised, so we couldn't do it twice in a row... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3277	I thought I was speaking by article 107. I just wanted to warn the esteemed chairman, just as Col. Komic said he could not speak to the MPs in a certain way, so in article 107, he writes that, compared to all the other persons in the Assembly, we cannot address them in such a way. We do not pass this law because of Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, nor do we pass the law so that Mladjan Dinkic has certain powers, such as that. We are passing laws, and I have to say that as someone who will support this law in order for Serbia to legalise itself, so that Serbia can get out of a certain difficult situation and I don't think it's right to talk about whether someone in this assembly is like this or not. I have no intention of defending Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, but it is untasteful that, first of all, we listen to the accusations of his personality, that we are allegedly passing the law for him, and then immediately, as the Dukes would say, we are sulking or angry about why someone returns in a certain way, certain things. I suggest we get this over with, that the chairman over, because you know that you have the right once, and then once again to explain that there are no more replicas in this, to continue the discussion, because this is leading us now to some things that I don't think are appropriate to this. It is best to continue the discussion, not to place additional burdens, and I ask you to recognize immediately at the beginning of the discussion whether it is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, replica, or whether it is now a continuation of something that the Rules of Procedure do not allow at all. In that sense, I suggest that you do not further harm the Rules of Procedure, but that you allow people to continue on the list that they are, because otherwise I don't really see the meaning of all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3278	Thank you. Mr. Mikovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3279	Article 103(5), I did not receive a reply from the chairman regarding the reference to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. I've pointed out why, not only what you told Mr. Minister, but also in terms of biding whether he's a party member, he's not a party member, where he comes from, he's not coming from, so in that sense I think there's an injury. I didn't get an answer, so I think that's why I need to make it clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3280	Excuse me, Mr. Mikovic, so please also the MPs and the minister present in the hall that we all respect the dignity of the National Assembly, that we do not address each other directly and do not use offensive expressions. I'm really asking you, so we can continue our co-operation. Gordana Komic, replica. Here you go. In fact, I'm sorry, the first right to the replica has Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3281	Thank you, Madam Chairman. With your kindness, I have spoken for longer than was anticipated, it seems to me eight minutes, although my parliamentary group has had less at its disposal and I cannot help but notice that, of all the remarks made by the minister, it is only this one sentence of "Vojvodine Development Bank", which I have said, at least I understand, and it is not a topic. I do not dispute the right to the opinion and the Ministry of Finance and Mr Dinkic as minister, on what needs to be done with the "Vojvodine Development Bank" and the opinion is that the government of Vojvodina is making mistakes. I spoke to Mr. Secretary's assistant for quite some time while the session lasted, and what we agreed on was facts. I don't argue that the Vojvodina Development Bank is in some trouble. I do not dispute that these problems may not be solved in the way the government of Vojvodina proposes, but what I dispute is the way Mr Dinkic talks here today about the government of Vojvodina, the way he is trying to solve the problem with the "Vojvodine Development Bank", I believe that he, as finance minister, has other opportunities to solve such a problem. He, as far as I understand it, suggested Bojana Pajtic in what way he believes this issue should be resolved. This was not accepted by Bojan Pajtic and the government of Vojvodina, ultimately, did not accept it. She decided for the second time, their request for recapitalisation is in front of the NBS. The governor will decide positively or negatively on the request in the coming days, and that is where the Ministry of Finance's role ends at the moment. I do not dispute concern, I do not dispute the right to worry, but the slow way in which you discredit the government of Vojvodina, in which you discredit the "Vojvodine Development Bank" and the way you disrupt, this occasion, all those who, by chance, hold the money in that bank, at the same time, withdraw that money from the bank, because if that is the goal, then you are extremely successful. You call adventures what the government of Vojvodina wants to capitalize. (President: Time. I'm just asking if maybe the adventures were for someone who's been subsidizing for jobs, investment in hardware, in Fiat, in smelts, etc. As for crime, and the people of the government of Vojvodina once, probably in the heat of speech, you called criminals, and those people who were in the bank, you called the people who were involved in the crime, I think you should look for answers in your party, because for the past four years in that same government of Vojvodina you participated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3282	Thank you. National MP Gordana Komic. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3283	Thank you. The basis of the replica is the direct mention of the name and the untrue transmission of what I presented in the context of Article 27's injury. I was talking about the behaviour of the participants of the session and I said he had no reason to eat because today's session "Vojvodine Development Bank" de facto was liquidated. I said there was a reason for him to be at peace and dissatisfaction that he could share with us, because the liquidation deal failed, but that's why there's a session of the Assembly where he can send a message that the bank should be liquidated. So the difference between the third person speech and the state description, and the first person's speech is what I did and that's what the stenogram says, and it's easy to check. The will to take a word for it in order to give a message to someone in the O.R. is legitimate and legal, but it is a completely naive expectation that there will be no answer and that there will be no insistence on the truth and on the facts, because it is important to all of us. So, I have never broken the Rules of Procedure by insulting any MP in the first person, nor will I. As I defend the right of all of us, wanting to warn when the Rules of Procedure is being violated in addressing any MP, which is also evidence. You're willing to appreciate whether or not you like it, but it's not nice to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3284	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3285	No bank can be liquidated in words. I can say, either you or anyone in this room whatever they want for the Intes bank, whatever they want for the Commercial Bank, nothing's gonna happen. If the bank's strong words absolutely don't contribute to any compromise of trust. What you're saying right now is actually subconsciously running away from responsibility, replacing thesis and trying to do that. What only two institutions in this country can objectively respond to, which is the province government, as the majority owner and central bank to decide and it only decides on the fate of any bank in Serbia, you want to attribute to me now. I don't think that's fair, because through the transfer of constant responsibilities, it comes to these situations that one can move to another, the other to the third, the third to the fourth, and basically the citizens end up paying the price. I just wanted to say that the situation at Vojvodina Development Bank is critical, that it is trying to solve amateurally by the province's government, in the wrong way, contrary to IMF proposals, the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank, headly, politically motivated, unmotivated, the interests of the people of Vojvodina, and I just want it to remain recorded. Why did I talk about it today, because I want it recorded. Because I believe that banking policy leads to collapse and that the Vojvodina Development Bank is not run by banking, it's politics, just for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3286	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3287	If words cannot harm the credibility of the bank, words cannot interpret what the banking system is, and not the finance minister, then we have a much bigger problem than the passing of this law by emergency procedure. Today's session topic, which was "Vojvodine Development Bank", is its opposition to its liquidation, and now the argument for its liquidation. If we carefully read the stenogram, because we're all here talking about it being recorded, then we will clearly follow the messages and the data, which are divided in this session, all legitimate and all legal. Unfortunately, the only thing missing is that we listen a little more carefully, because my point was that there was no reason to eat. The job's done. There is no reason to object to such a type of performance of the business, when credibility and the reputation of any banking institution are at stake. What there is reason to be concerned, if the finance minister feels that no words can harm anything in our society. Only words and can, if we listen carefully to the words will we realize how dangerous weapons are, how dangerous weapons are and how they should be used with caution to achieve the wording of the goal we want. The bank that's currently being discussed is actually going to be in this conversation home, and the stenogram will keep everything recorded. That's a good thing, and that's why we're all talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3288	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3289	Let's get things straight to the end. The title of the law is written in plural. Don't let anyone leave this session thinking they only apply to one bank. The law refers to several banks, the proposal for a law on the takeover of property and the obligations of certain banks in order to preserve the stability of Serbia's financial system. If only, as God would say, the problem with the New Agrobank is solved by the transfer to the Postage Savings. Why, then, in Article 7, do we open up the possibility of being transferred to non-state banks? Because there is no other state bank left to take over the activity of troubled state banks. Only the Post Office is one. If there was only one bank in this law, I don't blame myself for perhaps not being clear enough, this law refers to "New Agrobank" and "Vojvodine Development Bank" equally. The only difference is that the problem called "New Agrobank" is 410m euros, and the problem called "Vojvodine Development Bank" is 240m euros. It's almost twice as small a problem, but it's still big. A total of 650m euros is a problem in these banks. That's what I'm talking about. We deliberately, knowingly left room to save, not to destroy, but to save deposits and "New Agrobanks" and "Vojvodine Development Banks", so we opened up the possibility of transfer to some other banks, because unfortunately we currently have only one single bank in Serbia, strong, large with 100% state ownership. It's the Post Office. There's no other one. To transfer deposits theoretically, someone might ask why you don't transfer deposits and Vojvodina Development Banks to the Postage Savings Bank? That was too much for her, because when you transfer deposits to another bank, you have to simulate the effects on capital adequacy. At the Post Office, the transfer of the New Agrobank deposit does not affect their capital adequacy, it will remain at 20%. If another 240m euros from Vojvodina Development Bank were added, then they would already have to capitalise to submit the transaction. So this law is written, above all, for two problematic state banks for "New Agrobank" and "Vojvodina Development Bank".
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3290	Thank you. The People's MP Gordana Komic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3291	I thank you for this will be the last replica, since there is a time within the parliamentary group. So, I don't argue that the law that's on the agenda for two banks is neither slow to pass most of the law. What I've given as a remark that most of today's session is committed to opposing the fact that it failed to agree on the liquidation of Vojvodina Development Bank. I said, what the minister today informed the public of the data, the attitude, and then finally and passionately, which is why I had to react. That winding-up was done. Is it legitimate and legal, if other ministers do so in other parliaments, we can talk about it. There are more banks that are state, either partly or in percentage, which are not mentioned and I hope they will not be mentioned, and we all know here what three other banks are in Serbia's territory, including Kosovo and Metohija. I hope they're all good and they're healthy. I hope there will be no problem or need to apply this law to them. If we expect here, from all of us, that the minister as a participant of the session says, and that the MPs are silent and that they have no objections, then one of us has misjudged the session he is sitting at. I'm not, and I'm sure he's not a minister either. I repeat, there is no reason to eat so much, a job has been done in this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3292	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3293	Because I see all the time that you don't understand what I'm trying to say. The bank cannot be liquidated if the province pumps 150m euros in debt inside. How can it be, why don't you explain it to me? It can't be done. I'm just saying it's irrational. The pumping of 150m euros to cover "Vojvodine Development Bank", means that Vojvodina Development Bank will have adequate capital at the first moment. The problem is, he won't be able to have enough liquidity. In order to get liquidity, he has to ask for liquidity loans from the Central Bank. I guess she'll approve them. These liquidity loans will be quite enough to cover all the secured deposits in Vojvodina Development Bank. It is 150m euros, as 140m euros are secured deposits. What's the problem? The problem is that unsecured deposits remain trapped. It will be a political order that Novi Sad, Zrenjanin, Panchevo, Kovin must not move deposits from Vojvodina Development Bank, because if those deposits move, the bank will collapse. That's why I think it's the wrong solution. If you think you can keep it quiet, push under the carpet and not speak plainly, it's your style. My style is openness, honest about problems. If we have a problem, let's solve it. It is not the solution to be in debt to 150m euros, and then to hold as hostages of unsecured depositors, because politically you can. Order simple cities not to move their deposits, otherwise they destroy the bank. That was done all the time in Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank. This is not the case, Mrs. Comic, in any other bank in Serbia, which is why I am speaking openly. (President: Do not address the MP directly. I'm really sorry, I didn't want to, and it wasn't personal. So there's no other bank in Serbia except for these two, where you have to force the depositors to give inside deposits to keep it from falling down. I would never talk about it if other banks were weak. Other banks are strong, and that is why the system solution is to clean both banks, which are cancerous. It's a cancer in the banking system, both of you, but save the deposits. And that'll save 100% of the deposits. Why? Because if deposits are not saved now, when possible, at no great cost, tomorrow there may be no money to pay off unsecured deposits. Then who's going to be the bearer of that damage? There's a big moral hazard. All I'm talking about is, clean economic categories in two non-systemic banks, and that's why I'm talking straight about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3294	Thank you. Olga Batic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3295	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3296	Then you have no right. You're not mentioned, you have no right to a replica, and neither is your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3297	What do you mean, it's not? I'm the deputy chief.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3298	I didn't hear your MP group mentioned. You have the right to replicate only if your parliamentary group is mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3299	I'm not answering on the basis of a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3300	On what grounds are you answering now?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3301	As deputy head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3302	You have no right to answer this part of the discussion. You're only entitled to a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a replica to report. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3303	I love most when someone understands what I don't understand. It's a regular completely clear answer for a question I haven't even asked. If someone does not want to hear what is clearly said, then it can hardly be touched by words that are quite clear that they cannot be clearer, if someone feels that the MP does not have the right to say what he thinks, even if he thinks he does not understand what he understands, then it is a matter of elemental decency to explain himself without wanting anyone to be offended or to misread the data. So, bad banks, when you do more clear data, they can go into liquidation and how. My problem now is is is it true that the finance minister has no awareness of what he's doing when he talks about banks in such a way at the Assembly session? It's a huge problem, I don't think it's just for the ruling majority, but for all of us. In any case, we will have the opportunity to exchange understanding with the eye of my time within the DS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3304	Thank you. Miss Jerkov, on what grounds are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3305	There's a debate going on in my discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3306	You didn't mention you or the MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3307	But if Mr. Dinkic says "you," who does he mean exactly?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3308	He addressed Mrs. Komic's direct exposure. That's why I gave her the right to the replica. We're moving on with our work. The next registered speaker is MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3309	Thank you. Dear Ministers Dinkic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning I will make it very clear that the SPS Parliament Club supports the proposal for a law on the takeover of property and obligations of certain banks in order to preserve the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, by supporting this legislative proposal, we are actually in favour of the goal which is to achieve its adoption, which is to preserve the stability of the financial system in Serbia. We believe it is a quality system solution, which creates conditions, I would say, for the permanent stabilisation of the banking system in Serbia, which is of paramount importance. The current situation that has already been discussed, when it comes to certain banks in Serbia and emergencies that are seriously threatening to shake financial stability, but also the inability to solve problems with current and existing laws, simply require a quick reaction from the responsible Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the context of proposing such a quality system-based legislative proposal. This legislative proposal shows, in fact, the determination and determination of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of course, by the Resorient Ministry of Finance, that they provide concrete and stable answers and solutions in the long term, when it comes to those negative elements which unfortunately create instability in the banking system. I don't think at this point we have time to talk about what happened, to analyze whether the current situation in certain banks is the result of disastrously bad political decisions or whether it's the result of catastrophic bad placements. There are competent authorities, competent institutions in Serbia that should deal with the issue and which should give an answer. Our interest should be citizens who save in banks and businessmen who have their deposits. What is most important to us right now is that it will save "New Agrobanks", which would go bankrupt by adopting this bill, the ability to have their stakes in the Postage Savings and not the transfer itself, as it is said, of the deposit, but also the liquidity that is needed and necessary to complete the transaction. So, as has already been said, the bill provides for the transfer of assets and liabilities of a troubled bank to another financial and capable and stable bank, and that is, among other things, an effective option for stabilising the bank's portfolio and consolidation on the domestic market. What is also important is that this legislative proposal was co-operated, and that is what Mr. Minister said in an opening statement, with experts, representatives of the IMF. If we question every institution of Serbia, if we suspect the NBS, if we suspect the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then any law, including the one we're talking about today, can be problematic. I think we need to show one level of political responsibility and work on fostering and strengthening institutions in Serbia. Let's say, through the strengthening of the NBS, we'll allow this legal proposal to function as well. Our ultimate goal must and should be, someone mentioned today, the return of citizens' confidence in the banking system in Serbia. The government has learned lessons from previous times and this legislative proposal shows the readiness of the government of the Republic of Serbia to offer solutions. I would like to say once again, the intention and purpose of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to this legislative proposal, are fully justified, fully correct and have our support. It is an extorted solution, extorted, as it is said, of consequence, and we agree, that is why it is important to separate the policy from the profession. The government had, as we heard, more options. We believe this is the most realistic solution that will solve the problem of 250,000 depositors in this exorbitant situation. Once again, at the very end, the SPS parliamentary club in the voting day will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3310	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I'm going to gentlemanly challenge Miss Batic, to have the opportunity to say what she meant when she didn't have the right to speak. So, first, I will take that opportunity, given that some MPs here have been able to recognize themselves, in the word of the Vojvodina. Here, I, as a Duke, have not recognized myself at all in the Vojvodine Development Bank, nor in mentioning the word of the Vojvodina. Why didn't I recognize myself, and some of the parties did? I believe one of those banks may have funded their election campaign. They're so nervous today, I wouldn't be surprised if we found a way into the Vojvodina Development Bank by accident of some loans that were placed for certain parties' political campaigns. I can bet that part of the anxiety comes from, and we're discussing today a law by which banks can be taken over by the founder of the Republic of the majority or minority. If it is minority, then with some permission from the Assembly of Shareholders, and the takeover can only be carried out if there is a positive opinion of the NBS given in accordance with this law. So the Ministry of Finance can't abuse this law unless it's licensed by the NBS and at least on that side we can be calm. What I wish I had been explained by the nervous MPs would be next. In the EU that is so called for, but in that older part of the EU, participation in the banking system of foreign banks is about 19% maximum. With us, they allowed the participation of the banking sector in our financial system to be 90%. In that part of these foreign banks, the daughters of foreign banks which are also domestic banks guaranteed by our state and which have 90% of 100%, in these banks and there are no major abuses. Most likely, since their home banks are private, that they transferred this business policy here, they couldn't abuse their positions and share their loans with their friends. I am dissatisfied with the involvement of foreign banks in the domestic financial sector, given that foreign banks themselves have an objective that is legitimate, to suck up as much capital from our economy and from our citizens. So we come to a situation that at this point our citizens and our economy, most of the foreign banks guaranteed by our state, and we know how this happened, at this point our citizens owe 609 billion dinars to these banks, the economy owes over 14m euros. Today, all together, the economy and the population, owes these banks 2,176 billion, or close to 20 billion euros. I wish those nervous MPs would have explained to me how these banks that came in with ten million founding capital, foreign banks came into a position guaranteed by our state, if they wanted to cheat on the depositors, how did these banks come into a position to make so little money and to owe them as citizens and as an economy? Considering that in the past ten years we have paid 22 billion euros on behalf of the banks, almost as much magic has been performed that someone who has not entered a single billion and left this country, comes into a position that we owe him more than 22 billion and that, on the basis of the interest in the last ten years alone, he has charged 22 billion. They weren't worried about that money sucking up, of course, but they were worried about a few bad banks, so on. domestic banks where the founding capital is governmental in the majority part or in a significant part. They're worried here, and I think they're justifiably worried. I already said in the introduction that they were most likely rewarded, that they could do what they wanted to do to the rest of that domestic banking sector, that they were politically managed by these banks. It is almost amazing that a member of that party, the former finance minister in his account has 12m euros, aunty little on the couch fell asleep... (President: Mr. Risticevic, please stick to the subject. Go back to the subject. ) The theme is banks and finances. So there were 12m euros in his account, so I wonder if it could have helped these banks not to get into a situation, if he had invested it in our bank, this bank wouldn't have come into a situation where we had to take them over and make up for their losses by taking money from the poor, making up for all the minuses to these domestic banks. We have to get the money, and according to this bill to deliver it to the agency if there is not enough, we have to deliver the taxpayers' money because someone before us, one policy, has misused their mechanisms and in banks where there has been state capital, abuse of its position, has brought himself and its friends, most likely tycoons, into a favourable position. Today in the press it was announced that a certain tycoon who owed "Agrobanks" a multimillion-dollar amount had reprogrammed his debts for five years with a grace period of two years. For a wonderful miracle, it would not be surprising, but the license to this "New Agrobank" is expenditure for two years, just as the grace period runs, and that bank has until May 25th or May 26th 2014. The tycoon is due to start paying off only in September that same year. So the bank will disappear and have no one left to repay that debt. I think I've said enough about what's been going on in that bank. For abuses in "Agrobanka", I accuse a group calling itself "CES Mecon", led by Finance Minister and former prime minister, Mr Cvetkovic. It is a group owned by Mr. Nikezic, who is the founder of the company and whose son was the secretary of state while the finance minister was Mr. Cvetkovic. Mr. Nikezic and CES Mecon were representatives of state capital in Agrobanks, and he had to, since his son was a high-ranking official of the state, to make sure that nothing happened to the state capital, and in particular that we would not be in a position to take money from the poor, rather than make up for the minuses in that bank made for the private wealth of the political structure and the tycoon that helped them abundantly. Just to remind you of their independent NBS, that is, its independence while they were in power, the following data speak – the second round of presidential elections was completed on 20 May, and four days later, the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic broadcast... (Chairman: Please, Mr. Risticevic, let's get back to the topic. I'm on the subject as much as the finance minister. If you won't let me talk about "New Agrobank," then say it's not a topic. As far as I can tell, hers is here as long as you want. So this law is the result of what was happening in Agrobanka. What I'm saying is that four days after the election, knowing what they did in Agrobanks, they were broadcasting 85 million bonds that were due in 2015. They were broadcasting a public debt on May 24th, and on May 25th, this independent NBS who was supposed to control it all, to God's name independent, as he knows he's supposed to liquidate Agrobank. On May 26th, the government gives state bonds to the New Agrobanks, which, in debt, illegally establishs a new Agrobank, and, behold, wonders are that independent NBS that is so independent and all of that knows, on the same day gives permission to the New Agrobanks. I hereby proved that the highest state summit in the former government was involved in the robbery of the people that was committed through Agrobank, by having to compensate citizens with money for everything they had wasted in their mandate from the budget. This is all about this law, about Agrobank, and I'm asking not only to take on the debts of the New Agrobanks, to assume their obligations, their capital, to ask the government to encourage the prosecution, I said encourage, and the investigative authorities to thoroughly investigate all abuses of former top state officials. Don't let the robbery of Agrobanks suit us again for the robbery of citizens by some of New Montenegro, Major, Lebanese, etc., don't let it cloud the eyes of the citizens, but let's determine what makes the former government here nervous tonight. I would also like to warn that during their term of office there is a "Diners Club" Belgrade, which had no control over the NBS, which broadcasts loans and shares cards contrary to Article 5. The law on banks, where only to share credit and payment cards with banks. They let the Diners Club do it, which can be extremely dangerous. At this point, they have uncontrollable 30,000 payment cards with 150m euros, for which they can suffer unless there is any control, and they are out of NBS control, and should not be if they are engaged in financial services. I would like to warn that this can lead to money laundering, that it can bury our traders because it is a total capital of 150m euros. Finally, let me remind you that today is 100 years from the Kumanov battle. It is a day when one small nation together with others, a small state has proved that under certain conditions it can rise and be great and free itself and others. In the name of these people who have been killed for the creation of this country and other states, and the last state, on behalf of these ancestors and in the name of future descendants, I demand that the fines of various "shocks, nitwits, duds, jits" etc., before we had too tight a belt around empty stomachs. The easiest thing to do is to tighten the belt around the poor and empty stomach. I think that this set I've listed has a lot of capital, that this capital was acquired by hard work but by someone else's work, by this poor thing, and that's why I'm asking you not only to question Agrobank, but to examine Vojvodina Development Bank. We'll find a lot of things there. We'll find a way to get this nervous. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3312	Since the People's MP Olgica Batic came forward, I will take advantage of the opportunity and read Article 104. The Rules of Procedure - "If the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is offended by a statement to the MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and function, or misreading his presentation, then the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group shall have the right to replication. The President of the National Assembly shall decide on the application of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article." I don't think Mr. Risticevic was insulting to you. (National MP Marijan Risticevic throws out of place. Please don't win. I can't give you the right to a replica, but to remind you that you will have the right to use your time. We're continuing the exposure. The People's MP, Teodora Vlahovic, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3313	After such a discussion, I would not use the right to reply, but I believe that we must point out that we are all obliged to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly. Here are the MPs with their duties and tasks, not the prosecution or economic crime. So auctioning the names of the MPs is problematic here. Are we now going to expect some gentlemen sitting in this room to make their wish lists to be accused or are we going to let the state authorities do their job? What's important is that we keep the institutions in this country and when we're in power and when we're in opposition. This way of talking without warning in the National Assembly degrades all institutions in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3314	Mr. Marijan Rističević, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3315	I'm gonna have to ask for an official translator here. I use my people's language. I didn't mention anyone except the state's greatest officials. So, I also mentioned the political support of a thieving thief in "Agrobank" who is visible and who has identified himself in that thieving thief, I'm not guilty of anything. Look at the carefully stenogram, except for the top state officials whose names I counted no one else I mentioned, except the anxiety of certain MPs who are afraid to enter "Vojvodina Development Bank". As a Duke when the Vojvodina Development Bank was mentioned, I didn't recognize myself, and I really don't know what these replicas are. I especially didn't mean anyone who answered the word on this occasion, or he could still answer. I didn't call anyone in the O.R. directly for crime, except I said there was a reasonable suspicion that the highest state officials were involved in the crime and listed their names and names of state capital advocates in Agrobanka. With that, if I've offended anyone in this room, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3316	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3317	The Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, today was interesting, especially tonight, to listen to the debate that you have been having in part with MPs from the largest ruling party until recently, and now the main parties in the opposition and cannot be seen as the striking absence of MPs and now the main opposition parties from today's session. There's probably a reason for that. I rarely say that I agree with you, but this time I really must admit, in a sentence you said earlier that it was a very serious problem, a very serious situation which is reckless or perhaps deliberate management of Agrobanks that were sitting on the board of directors, but also those who helped them bring the whole state. A month ago, we brought in a budget rebalance by which this country is minus two billion euros. We are now discussing how someone or more stole them and robbed Agrobank and the state must be further in debt and intervened with several hundred million euros to cover those losses. In addition to the enormously empty cash register, we come up with a situation to put all the burdens on the back of taxpayers, or citizens, through an apparent robbery from Agrobank and some other banks. We understand all this and that the situation is such that by intervening through this law, we are trying to prevent the greater damage that would have occurred if this hadn't been done, but we are asking both of you and the entire government for the greatest possible responsibility for what happened, because when someone robbed, you mentioned a figure of 600 million euros, then somebody really has to take responsibility for what happened. In that context, I'd like to ask you a few questions. How is it possible, since it was said that the agony of Agrobank and of these suspicious transactions, the lending takes at least a year and a half, that none of the authorities have dealt with this problem? To translate, the Government has been involved in the Agrobank, has its representatives, and is it possible that none of these representatives in the Agrobank Committee have signaled that something suspicious is happening there? The second question is – if no one has signalled from the government's representatives in the "Agrobank" and even the "Vojvodine Development Bank" media has been dealing with this for at least the last year, how is it possible that the Government of its sessions or to ask you directly as you participated in the work of the Government or your ministers when you left the government did not touch that question to see what's going on in "Agrobanka" to prevent the time of greater damages that are so obvious today. What was the National Bank of Serbia doing during that time? How is it possible that for a year and a half they're running through the media of the affair about who it is and how much money they've pumped from Agrobank and that the National Bank that's been in control of the banks hasn't intervened, has not been able to control and found anything suspicious? We requested, two months ago, when a shift of governors of the National Bank was debated here, a serious debate about the work of the former governor and the National Bank Council. That was the way and then we looked, remember, in the debate to shed light on all the problems related to Agrobank, to the Vojvodine Development Bank, to Metalsbank, to the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, etc. If we had discussed it then, it would probably have come to light, and then we would have had a little more time and a little less damage if we had responded in time. This easy to transfer such a burden, hundreds of millions of euros, to the back of citizens, really without serious consequences for those who did so, would be extremely irresponsible. I believe that what you just said, that you're going to advocate in the government, that a thorough examination of all the suspicious actions and responsibilities of the individual, so that we end up with an answer that is a political background in these suspicious affairs. No one on their own could have done that if it hadn't been for the background and there wasn't a back-guard by the people who were sitting in the highest instance of power. After all, to examine the responsibilities of the National Bank and its governor, Mr. Shoskovic, to justify so many high-incomes held by governors and vice governors of 600, 700,000 dinars. I guess it's their job to control the work of all banks and make it impossible to get into situations like this. This is how we got into a situation where we had to cover that hole in the budget, that citizens would pay through taxes something they didn't need and don't have to, and someone would get rich at their expense. I believe that through investigations these issues will be clarified, but I also ask that those who have raised loans, who have received suspicious loans from Agrobank, which are today shown to be inaccessible, to process themselves more strictly. It's impossible for someone to get a loan without having anything to pay it back. When a citizen applies to receive a loan, he has to prove more and more that he can repay the loan and stock his assets to make sure the bank gets back what he took. How is it possible that those who received hundreds of millions of euros from Agrobank did not guarantee it and that no one controlled it for a year and a half. We expect, first of all, the responsibility for what has been done and we believe that through this responsibility it will come up with a lot on the surface and it will prove that the previous government has made catastrophic mistakes, not to say a harsher word, in the Agrobank affair. Through the Agrobank affair and through the opening of the issue of Vojvodina Development Bank, it should also be examined how business was done in the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, as well as in the Republic of Serbia Development Fund. There's more to be found there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3318	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3319	Thank you. The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, I think it is very important to say that the DS also supports any attempt by any state government that wants to put order into the financial sector. What is our deep dissent is significant shortcomings, and perhaps the inadequate approach that you have proposed through this bill. What's for sure is that we feel that this carries in some way the mark of "ex specialis" and in the very explanation it's about a week of savings and it's better to pass a law on ending a week of savings. What's certain is that we think that you as finance minister, I don't think it's a good administration for this banking sector, that you're speaking publicly about the dubiosis of the Development Bank. I think there are other institutions that are supposed to be doing this, and I think it's inappropriate to give qualifications on people who run the province government. It may be said that the proposed model, which you gave this bill, is correct when it comes to a transaction between two state banks, which is the case with the proposed takeover of the New Agrobank by the Post Office. However, the law allows private banks to assume the property and liabilities of the state bank for which the state grants them irrevocable financial support. Without an estimate of the real value of an active bank to be taken over, which opens up the possibility that a private bank can achieve a huge material benefit. There is no transparent procedure for selecting the bank of the acquirers, making the way for corruption completely open. As a possibility, especially given that transactions are worth dozens or even hundreds of millions of euros in taxpayers. Where does the state's money cover transactions that are practically rewarded by private banks and repairing their balances? I think that's a legitimate question. What impact these grants will have on the country's deficit and public debt. This problem is simply solved. Change the law so that only state-controlled banks can participate in these transactions, for example. The question arises whether the IMF has agreed to the proposed text of the law? He did not give consent, and if their mission is in Belgrade, as far as I know. On the basis of which criteria is the recipient bank selected in Article 4? Is it based on the highest price offered for the asset or on its financial indicators? What if, for example, for the recipient bank, a bank with inadequate indicators is chosen, because it is not legally prevented from taking into account the bank's role as the recipient's bank, which in itself is capable, or how it is being checked whether the bank is capable of absorbing a risk-absorbing activity and responding to additional liquid liabilities and potentially through financial support to help it? This type of aid can be very profitable for potential recipients because they get the market, depositors, potential growth earnings on the assets, and everything practical for free i.e. for nothing. Who negotiates with potential recipient banks? What if two receiving banks show up? In what form will financial support be given? Are you in cash, bonds? How much is this burden planned for the budget of the Deposit Insurance Agency and how much of the Agency has the resources to assess this amount, as in Article 5? Are you sure the Agency has 250m euros and what you're going to do for the other banks if this asset is withdrawn? Not everyone is thrilled with this news from the Assembly? What deposits will be transferred? Some creditors will be privileged in the event of a transfer or failure to transfer their claims. How will their rights to equal treatment be protected, as well as the state against future lawsuits? Given that the recipient bank can be a private bank, this Article 5 could lead to millions of abuses and losses for the Republic of Serbia's budget. Therefore, there must be a mechanism for a fair assessment of the activity before the transaction and a fair assessment of the necessary assistance referred to in Article 5. Why isn't it defined what kind of assets, assets, claims and deposits are being transferred? What is the estimated loss of Serbia's Development Fund based on the guarantees taken down by business banks, given that they are taking on the overall risk of poorly active? Why does a bank acquirer not issue guarantees to the Development Fund in Article 16? Of course, I promised here to a respected colleague from one of the opposition smaller parties who, during his presentation, talked about "Vojvodine Development Bank" and users, officials from the former regime, who took funds from the "Development Bank" and I am obliged to say – it is the DSS, one of the biggest debtors, with over a billion dinars of debt, "APS Holding", of your MP, Nenad Popovic. If he's a former regime official, then that's fine. Mr Dinkic, if you are right to seek responsibility for Agrobank, and I believe that everyone's responsibility should be determined, then who is responsible for the financial breakdown of the 2006 Post Office, the intervention of the country of 60m euros? Then you were, if I'm not mistaken, the finance minister and your advisor, Mr. Jelasic, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Who's responsible for Petrochemia since you set up your leadership in 2009, is making an annual loss of 100m euros and owes "Vojvodine Development Bank" 900 million dinars? Therefore, what is doubtless a conclusion and what confirms the DS position that it cannot support this bill is that, unfortunately, citizens of the Republic of Serbia control all finances in this country, connect and separate banks, close, control all subsidies and all economy and its activities, all investments, standard of living citizens, all credit lines, tourism, ski resorts and everything else you need. I think I said the prophetic thoughts here when I said you'd put the governor in your pocket, which is also confirmed in this way. I know that the National Bank should plead, but knowing about the structure of the future National Bank and the possibility of you changing that law as we prophetically told you when you adopted it, I think it's quite clear in that sense. I think you're deciding for yourself in this country what has to do with finances as long as it's money. In the end, what's been repeated over and over again, 11 years are in bankruptcy of four major banks. I know it would cost the state billions at the time, but I ask as a representative of the citizens – when will this be resolved? Not because I don't think it's harmful to allocate billions to a otherwise poor budget, but simply ask you as a citizen when will once the big four Serbian banks come out of bankruptcy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3320	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3321	You weren't today, but never mind, I've been here all day to be here, no matter when you're around. This is an IMF study I was already talking about, which speaks in detail about recommendations on what to do with Vojvodina Development Bank and New Agrobank. I'll let you take a look later, make sure I don't wave with any other paper. (You can take Mr. Stefanovic to see right away. So you asked me if we asked the IMF - we did ask, I've said it many times, because it's serious stuff and we didn't want to decide for ourselves. It's about serious responsibility. Unfortunately, we had little time to react. I didn't invent the week's savings, it existed years ago, and it's always in the first week of November, and the government was formed at the end of July. This problem data was received for "New Agrobank" only in September, and for "Vojvodine Development Bank" literally only 10 days ago. Then we consulted the IMF on what to do, should we just go with the "lex specialise" just for "New Agrobank" to transfer the deposit to "Postal Savings" and end things? The IMF said it doesn't make any sense, because it's the exact same situation at Vojvodina Development Bank. The Vojvodina Development Bank is the same as the New Agrobank. Same case, only twice as much, but the exact same structure. Secondly, I don't mind if we delete the transfer to these private banks with amendments. There's no other bank except the Post Office that can take the deposit. Then let's leave the Vojvodina Development Bank to, as you say, not reward private banks, so we don't, as you said, do a lucrative job, so let's see what happens to the deposits. Then you yourself, sir, and your party take responsibility if they can't pay off the "Vojvodine Development Bank" depositors, if we don't have anywhere to transfer. Which bank should we transfer to? List me with any other state-owned large bank that has 100% ownership and can quickly decide on receiving deposits. It doesn't exist. The Commercial Bank also has a European Bank for Reconstruction and Development inside, and the EBC, KFW, a lot of shareholders. The decision-making process takes months for such a thing. So, the thing is much more serious than you think, unfortunately. Literally, the alternative was one and we found it – "Postal Savings" for "New Agrobank". We've been looking for an alternative if deposits and Vojvodina Development Banks are transferred. Alternatives are only private banks, including foreign all other banks. There's no possibility of a transfer just because we're doing a risk assessment, we're doing a simulation of the impact of the transfer to the recipient's bank's coefficients, and we've established that the Post Office can only safely receive the deposits of "New Agrobank", but not any other bank's deposits. These new 240m euros in additional from Vojvodina Development Bank, there is no alternative, must be transferred if it is ever transferred to any of the private or foreign banks. Privates can be domestic or foreign. Based on the analysis of the Central Bank of Serbia, with which we co-ordinate closely all the time, because this is of interest above all to the Central Bank, but also to the Ministry of Finance, because we want to minimise the amount of funds we have to pay based on the damages of the previous period, we have come to the conclusion that we have to make a procedure to choose in case of transfer to the private bank that is best. It's simple, there's an auction that's being decided by a special sublegal act that's going to be based on this law. For example, if we want to transfer only the secured deposits of the Vojvodine Development Bank, for this we do not need any state intervention, because in the "Vojvodine Development Bank" itself, there are already nine billion dinars of the values previously issued, there are parts of the cash in the National Bank of Serbia and parts of the liquid assets that cover the total of these 140m euros of secured deposits. If we want to transfer an unsecured 100m euros, and these are the deposits of AP Vojvodina – two comas of a few billion euros, these are the deposits of the city of Novi Sad – a billion and a half dinar, the deposits of Nektar – a billion and 100 million dinars, the "LIPAXA" - a billion and 200 million dinars, the city of Belgrade - six million dinars, Zrenjanin, Subotica, Pancheva, Kovina - a billion and 100 million dinars, the "Vojvodinasum" - 300 million dinars, the Fund for the Development of AP Vojvodina - 200 million dinars and another 2.2 billion additional deposits, then we have to issue bonds. We can, if the province government wants us to, if we don't transfer unsecured deposits at all, then they go bankrupt. Because if we want to save only secured deposits, then we don't need any State intervention. We transfer insurance safely because we can cover them with already issued bonds and liquid assets, but for the unsecured, and that's all the ones I've been saying, there are 100m euros missing. We can, and that was our proposal, after 50m euros, to broadcast the province and the Republic in solidarity, to solve this issue and to take out the city of Belgrade deposits and the province of Vojvodina to make available 2.2 billion that it has, and can't do anything with them now, because they're trapped in the Vojvodine Development Bank, to extract these enterprises, the AP Vojvodina Development Fund, therefore, are essentially the majority of the Vojvodina institution, except for the city of Belgrade, which is there with 600 million dinars, to free these funds, to boost liquidity, and otherwise to make non-refundable claims, 75% is non-profitable, to put into bankruptcy. We only put into bankruptcy the essential things that are uncharging claims, loans, and thus solve the permanent question. Of course, it's easier for us to stay out of it, but then these 100m euros in deposits will go down. It's easier for me that someone doesn't accuse me of rewarding a private bank, as you say, or that we've done a lucrative job. I don't mind making a decision not to do anything with the Vojvodine Development Bank, let the province capitalize on it, make it easier for us, less headache, but the problem is that it doesn't solve the problem but rather postpones it, is put under the rug. That's why this procedure is the only possible thing in these conditions, nothing is done by itself, nothing is done alone, we work together with the IMF, but people, colleagues from your party, should have confidence, if not in us, then the IMF and accept that we solve this problem once and for all. Fortunately with this law and resolving issues in these troubled state banks, we will completely close the problem of bad banks in Serbia, and as far as other banks are concerned, of course they are also under the central bank's super-vision. If he wants you to help, we are willing to consider all efforts to help, to get this process done as best as possible. But I just don't think you have any objections in place, and that's what I want to tell you about someone getting rich from those transactions. Then in such a constitution it is logical to give it up because it does not have to be done. Let me tell you right now, this operation doesn't have to be done. Zoran Ostojić said this morning, the alternative is bankruptcy. We have laws that regulate bankruptcy. We pay 140m euros in secured deposit and the rest goes into bankruptcy. We think it's a bad solution. We think it's worth trying to save all the deposits, and that's why we're doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3322	Here you are, Mr. Stefanovic, entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3323	I don't think they were objections, there were more questions, Mr. Dinkic, and we haven't received many answers. What's certain is that you can't be so contradictory either, that you say it's urgent, that it's important, that an extraordinary meeting of the congregation is necessary, and then you say that it doesn't matter if we adopt at all, that we don't have to adopt. I know that when someone takes responsibility, they don't have to do anything, but the citizens trusted your coalition to put together a government. So no one here wants bad for this country or its banking sector. But I think maybe it's too much that we've been practicing so much and with your great participation in this exercise that we don't solve bank bankruptcy until now, so to speak – so we haven't learned our lesson, we can apply it right now, if you don't like this solution. I don't think it's a very responsible policy, and in principle, this when it's represented, in a paper sense, in front of the MPs, without any further explanations, without the things you've been forced to explain to us for hours, to our perfectly legitimate questions, it always happens when the proposal itself is not adequately explained through public debate, and through the very material that's being delivered at the session. That is why it happens that many MPs, including myself, repeat things, not because someone does not listen to what happened but simply because some things are not a good explanation by the promoter. That's our right to ask. However, what is worrying in this whole story is on the one hand the government's need to constantly explain how we got here. On the other hand, an audit that isn't being carried out until the end, to determine where the money went so that the prosecution can work easier, because that's what the people said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3324	Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3325	The audit was completely done for "New Agrobank". I.D.'d all the bad jobs and the D.A.'s office and the police are doing their job. The process is just now to be done at Vojvodina Development Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3326	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3327	Unfortunately, these days, we are respected MPs in a position to resolve alarming questions. Unfortunately, what we're talking about today is one of the questions he has to offer at a certain rate. It is true that next week, the weeks of savings begin, and the citizens of Serbia, I believe, will listen carefully to this debate tonight, demand that it continue to have its resources in banks. The state is a guarantee of foreign exchange savings for citizens and these facts that the minister presented absolutely stand. Listening to this debate today all the time, I'm thinking about whether there was some other measure, whether there was some other way or another way to react. The critical tones that go in the direction of disenfranchising the Government of the Republic of Serbia to speak on these topics, please, gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for the economic policy of a country. This one economic policy also includes this one banking sector, which includes the situation in the economy, includes the exchange and dinar savings of our citizens and all that is necessary to live civilised and in a peaceful manner. Unfortunately, today we are faced with a number of data and facts. The adequateness of capital and everything else is sixm euros, not adequate is over 150m, dueioza over 300. The political public and ordinary citizens are wondering where these 300m euros are for the money, some guarantees have been given, property resources, which are apparent to lack the adequate value and value of the capital for which the funds have been submitted. That money's gone somewhere, it's gone. That's for sure someone's gonna have to ask these days for those who are in custody to be told where that money is. But at this point, the state, or government, can't wait for what's going to happen from Monday. I think a good solution is to do it with one of the domestic banks, state banks. I think it's a good solution to do it with the Post Office Savings. Surely next week and since I'm working in the banking sector, there's going to be quite a lot of work going on in over 60 exposures to take over everything necessary to continue normal work when any citizen comes with his savings book on the counter, to know where he should come from, which clerk to address and ask him where his dinar savings is or his currency. That he has one security in communication as far as possible with his funds. I think the government's responsibility is extremely high and way and measure towards this action is very appropriate. There are no unscrupulous assumptions about getting into risks here. We inherited the risks, we got them, and we face them. The situation in the banking sector, primarily these several banks, is the result of previous times. The opposition speakers do not say what the funds for the election campaign that will never be returned to these banks, these are the funds of the citizens, the funds of the economy, the funds of the municipalities, the funds of the cities, the funds of the companies that ended up on some billboards, in some way of thanking us for some time we've been through. Of course, this measure is not popular and no one from the ruling majority applauds this measure. It's simple, just as serious, responsible people we're acting and looking for ways and solutions to get out of the legacy of the time we're going through. I'm afraid there will be more of these and similar situations in which we will have to react quickly and efficiently to protect the interests of the economy, the interests of the citizens, in this case we are entering into something that is the ultimate thing, which is the protection of the property of our citizens. It is good that the state will react in this case and will do everything to find these lost funds, not small funds, it is about 600 million euros, so when someone mentions these funds, I think, there are at least two or three plants that Serbia needs at the moment, there are several hundred kilometers of roads that we can build, there are several clinical centres, there are schools as many as you want, kindergartens, kindergartens, paid social benefits, and when you put it all together on one side of what we can do in this Serbia, there are some corridors, swimming pools and schools and all that we can do, you have one group of people who were close to the previous time and the exercise of power, people who know the ways that funds have been removed. I just can't believe that money turned into smoke. I've been dealing with these things for years, and I know, when you put funds on your client's current account, he sets up orders for further transfer of funds. These warrants have a name and name and company name and are known where they go next. Today he complains to us here why we want to make a merger. No one here is going to do it, we are forced to do it, finally, gentlemen, wait a minute, there's no point in attacking the government, because from next week, citizens are going to stop at the counter of these banks and they're going to ask for their money. Is it possible that they became smoke? These are some roads, kindergartens, all that. Where are these funds, where they're finished, and you're complaining about the most common remarks spoken very carefully here, how we act and speak very carefully, making sure we don't cause unrest among citizens and without wanting to elementize on something we can say, now we've found you somewhere. We haven't found you anywhere, we've found the misery we're facing, we've found the problems we're all swimming in and we're looking for solutions to get out of them. This government and this parliamentary majority where we are, carefully and patiently, sit here all day listening to what you're saying. Every day you throw dust, a new crisis, you throw dust about why we're looking for something and we're not looking for it. Please, gentlemen, be responsible here, Serbia is in one serious moment, in a situation where 600m euros are in these two banks and there are no solutions. There is no conflict here with Vojvodina, there are no questions here – where are our money? We have a problem with what happened in the previous period, which we didn't get anything nice for the next time and we're looking for solutions to get out of all this. I think the only way you can vote for this proposal and at least a little bit through the voice of reason and that pressure on this key is to admit part of your own mistake and your own responsibility that we've been through and that you and we both accept the responsibility to look for common solutions here. The solutions are not numerous, there are not many of them, and it seems to me that at this point, this is the only possible solution and think about why 600 million were missing somewhere and what could be done with those 600 million in this Serbia. Please, gentlemen, in this way, respect this majority and I think we are very responsible people and we represent the second part of Serbia that voted for a better life for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3328	The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the government said in its report that this is the most serious proposal for a system solution law since the outbreak of the 2008 crisis, which creates conditions for stabilising the banking sector in Serbia. Is everything exactly what the government said? "New Agrobank", if formed from healthy capital, and so we are told and presented, then the basic question is that in just five months, and I will remind you that it was formed in May this year, has managed to turn into the biggest loser, who loses two million euros a month. That's what you said at Monday's Economic Summit, and that's what you said and said today. So, "New Agrobank", which was formed as the cheapest and most impoverished solution to overcome all the problems caused by the poor situation in Agrobanka, now five months after its formation, loses 2m euros. Today, the government refers to a move like this, for what reason? Is perhaps the background of this law to cover the costs that have been formed in the meantime, what is the real background of this present bill. What causes suspicion, especially this urgency in the debate. We got the law on Monday nights, and today from early morning we've been discussing it, first thing. The second is what concerns me, and you said it in the debate, that joining the "New Agrobank" "Postal Savings" cannot be done by the provisions of the current law, because it would be a waste of time. As someone who is a lawyer by his education, I simply cannot accept such an explanation and explanation, because if you do not respect the right, then you create anarchy, chaos and in the financial system, although it is not enough that it already exists in the full justice system and justice that is working today in Serbia. The essential question I want to ask is who was the newly formed management of Agrobank giving loans to and under what conditions? That's the essential question and I'm asking you that if you have information, and you should have an answer. Secondly, is it possible that time was used after electoral powerlessness, that the newly formed "New Agrobank" would be financed by non-solid companies? I would hate for this bill to be a front for amnesty today, a possible amnesty of the responsibility of those people who are these losses and products. Therefore, I ask you not to deprive us of the clear answers to these questions. Let's remind you, Agrobank has failed because of very bad business, poor governance and one uncompromising corruption, I apologize for the expression, but I really must say, the newly formed management that we've been doing for the past few years and then to be quite clear here. We at the DSS support any action that goes towards lighting these facts, towards bringing justice to all those responsible in this and in any other process, but I warn you that it is not enough. It is not enough because confidence in the financial system with a special emphasis on the capital market has been undermined. I will remind you that Agrobanka was one of the few banks listed on the Belgrade Stock Exchange, which for a long time was the bearer of that same liquidity on the stock market. I have to say that from 2005 to 2010, she did record solid performances, but it was done in the meantime several recapitalisations that were successful, increased capital, she was one step away from being placed in one of the ten very successful banks, top banks in Serbia, and in the end it turned out that all those reports that were related to the business from quarter to quarter were forged and that in this way, not only the public, but all those who had ties to the financial sector, were being mistaken and that all the real indicators were not the right indicators. There is a huge responsibility here for the functioning of the NBS at the time and for the functioning of all those audits that were necessary. When the bank went bankrupt, the state authorities, i.e. representatives of state capital, transferred responsibility from one to another, from NBS to the Ministry, etc. However, what is unfortunately heard in this debate today, and what could be heard then, even foreign investors have been accused of not controlling banks at the operational level. I'll tell you that foreign investors are not even obliged to control banks at operational level, because if they were, of course, they wouldn't be portfolio investors. We instead of creating an ambience, for a simple healthy business, we and this little investor we have in the country are trying to tear them apart and just drive them away. Today in Serbia it works somewhere between 20 and 30 foreign investment funds, and most of these funds have invested their money in Agrobank. If Agrobank were an isolated case, of course not to raise this many polemics in public, of course this whole case wouldn't have come to these proportions that we're discussing today. I will remind you that three years ago another case was recorded in Serbia, which is the case of Metals Bank, which was in a very similar situation. Simply, the bank collected fresh capital from domestic and foreign investors, then built that glass, smart building in Novi Sad, with which many admired and commended it. Then the bank divided the brothers from the uncles, neighbors, schoolmates, godfathers a certain amount of credit, all of them went to some sunny islands, and at that point there was supposed to be a liquidation of that Agrobank. It did not happen "for the sake of course of protecting the banking system" and it was decided to hand the bank over to the AP Vojvodina administration. I'm just going to point out one fact, at this point in time, "Metals Bank", the price of Metals Bank stock on the Belgrade Stock Exchange was 60,000, and now the price of the action of Vojvodina Development Bank is 350 dinars, so you judge for yourself the performance of such an action. Of course, the question is who will answer for it and whether justice is being brought to justice in this country. A large number of foreign investors and shareholders, of course, insisted on suing Serbia for this, but later because of the huge effort, the Belgrade Stock Exchange primarily came to an end, because of a promise that, of course, something like this would never happen again in the future. I'll remind you that after that, there was a case called New Agrobank. Of course, foreign investors are now wondering after all these developments in the country what's the next move. We're talking about listing Telecom on the Belgrade Stock Exchange, why is this procedure so difficult? So after all these events, which we had the chance to see in the state, no one in their right mind wants to invest more money in Serbia's action. Then what none of us want is that the state-owned companies that do well have to suffer because of the irresponsible behavior of a group, I'd say mostly a mechanic. In the end, I will only mention the example of "The same capital", the largest foreign portfolio of investors, or the fund, operating in Serbia. They are burned when it comes to the "Metals Bank" and the "New Agrobank", and are now running a group of shareholders who are going to initiate a procedure to sue Serbia in a situation if no solution is found by November 26th, to reach a certain settlement between them and the Serbian government on the compensation of small shareholders, meaning that they come from EU countries of 70m euros. I will remind you that if there is an arbitration procedure in Washington it will certainly be one in a series of arbitration that Serbia will lose, because Serbia has not received any arbitration so far, nor has any arbitration procedure ended in its favour. Of course, this is all very bad. It's bad because the justice system was previously destroyed, which today is a completely lost trust in our judicial system, which, with such past developments, is, of course, destroying trust in the financial system. The basic question I want to ask is, how do you think you attract foreign investors and do you think anyone in this legal and business environment will be in any way motivated to invest in Serbia? Without these foreign investments, I don't think there's any way out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3330	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3331	We intend to gain trust, just like these determined moves. You ask in the beginning, what is the real background of this law? The real background is that the previous government made a cardinal mistake by not doing this at the end of last year. What we are doing now, after less than two months of analysis, was needed by the previous government to do in the second half of last year, to pass one of these laws, and to admit that Agrobank is in trouble, that these problems were caused primarily by poor management of Agrobank, private shareholders and to transfer deposits to some recipient bank. At that time, the Agrobanks, on 31 December last year, had 360m euros in secured deposits, but there were much more cash and there was no need to issue new 100m euros in bonds, which the state did with the idea of making "New Agrobank". "New Agrobank" wasn't supposed to be made, it was a fatal mistake by the previous government, a wrong move. The "New Agrobank" was doomed because a bank with only five million cash was made and with, I don't know, 85m euros in bonds, and with a 300m debt. Something doesn't add up mathematically. You must have, as you know, already know it well, equally active and passive. That's why "New Agrobank" lost 2m euros a month a month, because it was initially felerically made. "What's wrong with being born doesn't make it right." So "New Agrobank" shouldn't even exist. If I'd been the finance minister at the time, I'd never have done it, it was a mistake. The decision was to pass such a law on the total or partial takeover of deposits and move to one of the other banks, the Postage Savings Bank or some third bank with only 250m euros that we still have to give today, and without these 100m euros of bonds that have been issued. So it would have cost less than a year ago than now, for 100m euros it would have cost. The mistake was made, the new government was wrong, she just waited for that mistake, and we're dealing with this when we don't have a choice. So that there's no dilemma, I'll repeat it one more time, I think it's such an important topic that I'll repeat it a hundred times if I have to. Three of our government's options are in a situation that started at the end of July to work in the case of the New Agrobank, including the Vojvodina Development Bank. One option – we do nothing, both banks go bankrupt, but in a week of savings. If nothing is done, it happens from both banks, according to the Central Bank analysis and the IMF analysis and according to our analysis based on that data. The other thing is that we don't save all the deposits, that it costs us less, we can do that. This law allows us to do so. We can only secure deposits to save which state guarantees, we can secure in one bank and secure in another, and we can in one bank and secure and unsecured, and in the other only secure, but then it wouldn't be equal treatment. So, cheap solutions for the state in this case, they're not good solutions for the depositors of these banks, because in the case of cheap solutions, the citizens of the economy would lose. You think I'm happy that we have to go to a solution that costs a 250m-euro deposit insurance agency that's being transferred to the Post Office, so that the Post Office makes sense to receive deposits at all, I'm not happy. It's better if that fund stayed there, that no one touched it, but we're forced to do it because of the inherited case of "New Agrobank" that exists, we can't say, to act crazy, now to turn our heads. The cardinal error was to insert non-payments into the New Agrobank. I don't know who even assessed and put it in, based on an analysis of 80% of the non-refundable placements in New Agrobank. If a new bank is already being built, only something that is healthy, that 65m euros in billable loans and cash should be inserted. So, don't insert contaminated plasmas. It's a cardinal professional mistake, and I think it's a political mistake. For what reason? No one wanted to then, at the end of last year, by the people in charge, and the Central Bank is in charge and is in charge of the finance minister in the previous government. The prime minister indirectly, but above all, the finance minister. No one wanted to, to put it that way, to alert the public with bad news because elections were coming. Someone decided it would be better to pay 100m euros for silence, to go to elections, and to solve the problem later. When we had the handover of duties, former Prime Minister Cvetkovic told me – you have a big problem with "New Agrobank", which is the biggest problem with Sartid Irony, which is waiting for you. He told me honestly. I asked – what do you mean? We didn't know the problem was 300m euros, we thought it was a minor dubiosis. We did what we did, and now we have to get rid of it. We wanted to bring it together, when elections with the Serbian Bank, the Business Bank of Belgrade passed, etc. How do you connect a bad bank with banks that aren't giant too? You can't get one strong out of three weak banks, and that would be a mistake. So, simple mistakes were piled up behind each other, and that is why, regardless of what part of the MPs didn't get me well on purpose, they appealed themselves – let's not continue to pile up mistakes when these were already made. I agree with your predecessor, the head of the Parliament Club, who said – let me, if it's already done so, that it ends once and for all in a way that is transparent, in a way that saves all the deposits of citizens and businesses. Responsibility is neither a question for MPs nor for me, it is a question for the competent investigative authorities. Responsibilities must be established. It should be determined, because if in this case no responsibility is questioned, whether it is objective or subjective, I will not enter into it, but if the intentions existed, and this remains unpunished, then that is something that we really don't have the legal system you're talking about. I want to look back at one more thing, about the price of Agrobank shares in 2005 and 2006. Why? I was the finance minister back then. The fact was that the state had only 20% at the time and could not have had a crucial impact on what was happening in Agrobanka. In early 2006, one of the largest Russian banks expressed interest in taking over a majority package of Agrobanks in the Belgrade Stock Exchange. As finance minister, I said we don't mind, because it's bank A category. That was the Russian Bank of Instinct. He now has a VT capital branch that works in Serbia as well. That bank tried to do it on the stock market, and what happened? The Agrobank leadership at the time obviously wasn't interested in it and they simulated it, and you know it can be done on the stock market, especially when it's shallow, four times they've raised the stock price in a short time and the Russians have raised their hands. They didn't want to buy at a price that was unrealistic and went home, even though they had my consent, then on behalf of the government, which your party ran, so they could do it if they wanted to be on the market. It's a question of the market, but not at four times the price, which this leadership is now in prison, then insulated. So, it's never worth it. That goes for these people, too. This man is not a politician, I speak for the Director of Agrobanks, but he did all this in writing with various consultants, who had political ties, which were mentioned in this debate as early as 2006. It cost him everything that happened in the end. Unfortunately, the consulting house has members of the board of directors in another state bank, has a network of consultants and board members in three state banks at the moment. At Vojvodina Development Bank, they were doing this study and the PBB has a board representative, the bank was also recapitalised this year with two billion dinars, and in Nova Agrobanka. I absolutely support all of you who advocate the final examination of this legal party and responsibility. As far as the economic side is concerned, this is the only solution. This solves the issue for all time, for the benefit of the savings, for the benefit of the citizens, for the benefit of the economy, which will not be disturbed, rather, we will save them money at one great cost to the state by seizing out these 250m euros in cash from the Deposit Insurance Agency. As far as these funds are concerned, I just think that this action that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is about to take, we're going to get the trust of serious investors, because this is a serious state action. It is unserious to work on a piece and to push problems under the carpet as the previous government did with the creation of "New Agrobank" or with announcements of capitalisation of the failed "Vojvodine Development Bank", it is unserious. It's serious to solve a contaminated problem in a way that you can bury. You know, when you have contaminated things, you have to go deep into the ground to bury them so they don't contaminate the environment and that the rest of the world can breathe and develop. So our strategy is a decisive action to protect the stability of the financial system. We're lucky to have these isolated cases. If this had been wider and it had lasted longer, unfortunately it would have been wider and longer. There's a huge problem waiting for us, but we didn't want to run away from him. We went out here to the assembly, and I'm sorry you didn't have time to read this for the reason the problem came up. I told you we didn't even know about the "Vojvodine Development Bank" problem until ten days ago. Only the Central Bank showed us that ten days ago. She said carefully, what are you going to do with it, she asked us a question, you're a shareholder. You're dealing with a problem, you want to shut it down or you're gonna save her? That we put extra capital into something that doesn't stand a chance – we won't, but we want to save deposits and that's our strategy and that's why we're passing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3332	The word is Miss Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3333	I'm glad we agree on the need to take responsibility, but I'd like to take responsibility for what happened, primarily these two banks, to be borne by representatives of state authorities. I hope that's your opinion, too, and I think we agree on that part. What I'm saying is, I don't think the state should be overly involved in economic flows, and that's exactly what this bill is about. This bill by me, possibly wrong, can cause a kind of legal uncertainty. For what? Because he doesn't have a limited period of validity. First that. The second thing, I agree with what my colleague Michaelo said – if you wanted to bring a Lex specialis then you only had to limit it to this case. What's the background, do you perhaps want to take under this law the "Vojvodine Development Bank", I agree if that's a good solution. I think it would be necessary to have certain legal provisions in this bill, that they are otherwise formulated, because some of them really raise doubts about whether they are constitutional at all? We will, of course, talk a lot more about this in the discussion of details, but I don't think that this bill does not achieve legal certainty either, and we will see later that this uncertainty is going to spill over into the financial sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3334	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3335	Thank you. The bill before us is controversial in at least three points and remarks I wish to share with the MPs. The first issue is the issue in general, because it's not the first time it's reported in any law. With these provisions of this law, the defacto National Assembly gives the law its powers to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's never good and it's not the first time any ministry has proposed such a law. The sustainability of this law implies that after the adoption of the Law on the acquisition of assets and liabilities of certain banks in order to preserve the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Parliament is no longer engaged in banks. When the institution decides to give its constitution powers, that the government it elects is not good news and it is controversial. The compromise can be made when the government decides to propose to the assembly to arm such a transfer of powers, which are exclusively the jurisdiction of the Serbian Parliament. However, this is not the case here and it remains controversial, whatever the law is dealing with and whoever the law proposes. The second disputed feature of the legislation before us, the bill, is that this law puts aside other laws that are already in force in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. If anyone can draw the conclusion that this law will bring legal certainty, stability and credibility to the investor, then it is controversial that we interpret this fact in such a different way, because I think completely the other way around. If there is a Act on Banks, if there is an Agency Act and if there is a Deposit Insurance Agency, if there is a Business Society Act, then anyone interested in investing financially in our country, or dealing with it, will look at those laws, not expecting that there is such a law that the Assembly has handed over its powers to the Government and who has put aside the provisions of the law which otherwise financial investor or whoever is watching, reads and watches. The third dispute of this law is the absence of an explanation why the parliaments of shareholders, which in both cases are practically states, is one public enterprise, the other is a state directly, why are they being left out? Whoever received such a bill to exempt the congregations must wonder why. The explanation is it's a matter of urgency, not good enough, so it's a third issue. It is absolutely amazing to believe that the congregations would not agree with this attachment, but when you leave such three controversial things in the draft text of the law completely unclear, then there is no other way than to believe that it is a harsher term, and I will not use it, but legal indiscretion for anyone who will vote in favour of such a bill, without any ethical dilemma of what consequences such a law produces. My comments on what is controversial, so these three things, that the Assembly gives this law its powers to the Government, that this law puts aside the provisions of the laws that are normally in force, without the proposal to amend and supplement those laws, and that the assembly of shareholders that are not an enemy environment is excluded, they are also in the Post Office and in the Agrobank state. So the issue of these provisions is decisive to make a decision to vote against the law. In the discussion of the previous law, I said it was easy ethically to make a decision against. You say, "I'm against you and you think you're not carrying any responsibility, which in this case, as in the previous bill, is not the case with me, because this law will produce the consequences we suffer together. I'll remind you of what it looks like. Ten years in the '90s, we went into banks with the question "do you have money", and the beautiful women sitting inside were talking – no, come tomorrow. It was our way of life. After bold moves, cuts, also controversial but explained, and the finance minister who proposed this has done a lot of good things for the governor's mandate and for the term of office of the finance minister in the government that I did not support, which has never prevented me from seeing someone do good things, because what we had as banks in the 1990s was not liquid. You know, we've been listening to all these 90s about how great banks are and how someone takes responsibility, how there's nothing controversial about it. We didn't have any space, we didn't have a place to say -- aman, it can't work for the bank that I'm going into and I ask, "Do you have any money?" So what else is there, if there's no money, and she says to me, no, come this afternoon? We've spent the last ten years with different results in putting a banking system on its feet, on sound grounds. We've spent a lot more time in something that I think is more important, which is the citizens' trust in the banks. If you ask people who are concerned about this, were they saving up Agrobanks or Post Office Savings or any other bank, if you ask them for trust in the national currency, you'll get, as far as I'm concerned with an unfavourable and sad answer. Our money is the euro, our money is not a dinar, so it's said whether you're saving money or saving money in dinars. It's a serious thing that shows awareness of what we have on national currency. It doesn't happen in all countries, and here we are. Why do I remind you of these two periods, one in which we are told that everything is fine and the other in which we have tried to join forces, everyone on the different side, on the same side, as when and how, to establish trust in banks, to check whether banks are liquid, to allow both people and entrepreneurs and businesses to get to credit and try to deal with what neither this law will solve, or with expensive loans or with total uncertainty about how to make money for life or how to make money for what is called production, whatever it is. I read in these proposals of the law the tendency to remain in disputed solutions and to treat every issue of the disputed one as a direct attack on man and act. It occurred to me to really construct a verbal attack on man and act, so you can see the difference, because in my speeches and my remarks there is nothing but awareness that the consequences of this law will be common to everyone, however anyone votes for that law. Finally, it remained controversial from the careful listening to the arguments we heard and the discussions of the MPs we had had the opportunity to hear, what is actually happening by applying this law with these famous 250m euros. I'll tell you how I understand it, in advance, accepting that I'm told that I don't understand anything and that I don't understand anything and reminding you that there are institutions that will follow it, so we'll meet again in this room, and we'll compare mutual understanding. Joining in this way implies that everyone has confidence that money will be, so the government is looking for a way not to pay 250m euros, to go through a difficult way of charging out of the bankruptcy, and to save on staying confident and able to still raise their stakes. Please understand that I don't appreciate it as bad. On the contrary, I also know that other countries and other countries have done so in a similar way. I don't want to bother with examples from Hungary or Croatia. What is controversial, I say clearly – this law will vote that the powers of the Assembly go to the government until further notice. I was always against it, I was either an opposition or I supported the government. We will vote that some laws cease to apply by deciding on members in this law, and we will vote that we do not trust the parliaments of the shareholders that we, the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the Public Enterprise of PTT Serbia. The argument that this must be done by the week of austerity and that it cannot be reached, I can accept it, but then I ask you to accept it, to offer an argument that this law will be carried out, that there will be a time when the Assembly will be able to decide again what is its constitutional jurisdiction to decide, because it will remain disputed for me to have MPs in the case, and I will use very carefully the sentences that I will now say. So, in the absolutely incredible development of events that "The Business Bank of Belgrade", that "Jubank" in Kosovo territory and that "Serbian Bank" falls into difficulties of this kind, we will have no idea about it in the Assembly. I speak very carefully, not wanting any developments in the financial markets, any way of managing the banks I mentioned, to go wrong, whether the reasons are on the inside or on the outside. This in no way brings the Assembly back to the stage because what we call "lex specialis" was a much better solution and it would be quite clear and completely different cancers would also have discussions. Look how good I am, I'm sure this isn't because I'm an opposition, it's such a power. It won't be in the stenogram, but we heard it, and that's enough, but it doesn't have to be a stenogram. So it can still be corrected if you propose an amendment yourself or if you in any way ensure that this law is armed, one time, where we don't even get into how many banks you're going to include in this way. I'm sure the good consequences of this law can't be. As sure as I am that the good consequences can't be, I also want everything to be good consequences and that I am wrong, because it will be a profit for the financial market in Serbia and will be a gain for people who are in these banks' jobs. With the hope that we understand each other completely when it comes to objections, just to add that this law, as we will see in the debate in particular, is at my place after not enough time to think, unfortunately, I have only had a few hours, yet I have created training to submit all the amendments that I otherwise consider inappropriate for submission, and then I will explain in detail why and which amendment has been submitted to everyone with one single text – is deleted. I'm sorry I'm talking to you. It's a nasty screaming tone. I'm really sorry, it was neither my intention nor my influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3336	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3337	And the previous MP voiced concern that the unlimited duration of this law could cause damage, as we wrote this law in our best interest, I don't think this law has any reason to apply when deposits are transferred to these troubled state banks that I was talking about today. We are prepared to be on the Finance Committee precisely, given that we have heard it from several MPs, to make one amendment to limit the duration of this law to, for example, the end of 2014, so for the next two years. I'll try to further explain why we suspend the state bank shareholders' assembly. There are two reasons - a short term, as I said. The second reason is purely banking. The minimum term for calling the assembly is three weeks. So at least it has to be 21 days to call the assembly, plus the proper paperwork needs to be prepared for the NBS, and it takes another three weeks. About six weeks should be set up for a serious session by a bank congregation. We don't have that time for a week's savings, but there's another reason behind this. I already said, "Agrobanka" currently has less than 10 million cash, and savings commitments are 250m euros. Can you imagine the situation of material preparation where dozens of people read material and know that this bank has no cash, and the savings go and ask them to pick it up? We've been preparing this action outside the public. Now it's over, Friday the Assembly adopts this, deposits are transferred on Saturday, everyone has their own money on Monday. So, on Monday, everyone's gonna have it at the Post Office. If we had published this six weeks in advance, we wouldn't have welcomed the New Agrobank Assembly to hold this assembly. It would have failed after the first week, because everyone would have gone into a panic to raise their money, that 10 million would have gone right away. That's why, honestly and honestly, I'm telling you. We had to do a rapid surgery to ensure that we could prevent panic and that everyone could have their money on Monday. There's no other reason, just that one. There's no bad intentions, simply, such operations are done quickly. What's very important is that citizens who look at this and have savings in "New Agrobank" can take a break. Basically, if we hadn't done this, a large number of them would have been denied to get their money. It would be paid in the bankruptcy process, through the activation of the Deposit Insurance Agency mechanism, but thus we could not help the depositors whose deposits are not secured. They're all over 50,000 euros. They'd share the fate of collecting claims in a situation where 80% of it's non-refundable, they wouldn't get around much, they wouldn't charge for any of it. So, in this way, we have acted responsibly with a fact that seems contradictory in a legal sense, to suspend the assembly of shareholders, to preserve people's money, citizens, businesses, and others. In fact, once an unclassical legal method, we consciously entered something that is unusual to ensure that there is no panic in the system and that anyone can get their money. If there is a concern that this suspension can cause a problem in some future, I personally think that we can limit the duration of this law for the longest two years and thus resolve this issue, with the hope that the opposition's parliamentary groups will also support this law. It would be a good idea for this whole operation to be supported by consensus. That's the proposal I heard from the DSS parliamentary group and yours. I'm not talking about who's responsible for what, it's going to be questioned in special sectors by the one in charge. This is the responsibility of the Serbian Parliament. It would be good to adopt this kind of thing by consensus. That is why we are prepared to give the amendment that we will be on the committee tomorrow, or the Assembly Committee on Finance when it is scheduled.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3338	Mrs. Comic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3339	I thank and thank you for your reply. Since there was an argument on the committee for the exchange of our replicas in the previous part of the session. Yeah, that's what happens, people panic and raise their stakes. That's what happened at this session. I don't believe there's a way to correct so many laws that I vote for him. I stand firm in the view that every MP must know his responsibilities under the Law on the National Assembly and in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that I am voting without the vote of the parliamentary group. I wish it had started to be heard in this congregation. The MP says he will or will not vote. I know those days are still far away. The Democratic Party will not support the law unless there are more changes, unless there are more clear plans for further good reform of the financial system. I'm glad we understood each other when we made a point that today's session was dedicated to a bank that won't be subject to this law on Saturday, because it's a reaction being produced and because you're going to have a reaction. I don't know if it's legitimate or legal, but I'm going to look at the literature, with the intention of seeing if the finance minister can or can't do it at the assembly session. I guess he can. They'll stay to see all the consequences. I repeat, I told you that I do not believe this law will produce good consequences, but I want you to have them with all my heart, because it will be good news about the financial market in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3340	Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3341	We are confident that the non-election of this law would only result in adverse consequences. It wouldn't be worth it if we could rightly blame the government of which you were the bearer in the previous period, if the citizens lost their savings. That's why we're going to apply this law precisely because it brings only good consequences, because it saves 250,000 New Agrobank depositors, it can save 67,000 depositors of Vojvodina Development Bank and everyone else, don't give God, state banks if they get into trouble. They would never propose a law that does not produce only good consequences, but it is your right to declare the law any way you like.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3342	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3343	Just a remark that I had the opportunity to participate in debates within MPs and party groups and in the Assembly on draft laws that produced bad consequences and that I am aware of what my comment means when I say that the law will produce good consequences, and behind us are laws that some have voted for, and some have not, which have produced bad consequences. Every law that's been proposed for the last 12 years, as far as I'm concerned, I've heard nothing but good things from the promoters. They were good laws when the promoters had the will to hear what those who didn't read just nice things about the law had to say. My desire to apply this law also creates good consequences for unstable banks and for poor debts and for the dispute, bankruptcy and for everything else stems from what we all share undeniably, which is that which citizens you have increased trust in banks and that, in front of others, we show a better assessment of the state of banks and banking systems in Serbia. When you tell the MPs to say that the law is good, it is not understood to listen to what is wrong with the law. We'll learn it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3344	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3345	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, as you can see, we're back in a situation like we did a month or two ago, and I don't think there are two when we've discussed and adopted amendments to the NBS Act, and now we're again in a position to discuss and vote on an urgent procedure on the proposal for a law on the takeover of property and obligations of certain banks, in this case, the New Agrobank. The fact is, the situation in the financial and banking system is what it is. That urgency you, Mr. Minister, have tried to convince us all why it is necessary to take urgent action on all this conversation and on all this vote. We can understand you because this is a desperate move by the government and the finance ministry, primarily by how much you save the collapse of the financial system and how much you put into order the banking sector. We all know when the collapse and the shut-down of large domestic Serbian banks began. We all know that we've opened up a big space for foreign banks to arrive. Today we have, if we count back five or six years, how many domestic banks in which the state participate, or in which the state is owned by majority or minority. So, the fact is, this time, we need to consider this matter urgently, and just to remind ourselves, our citizens need to know how this situation happened, who's responsible for why Agrobank is in this situation? You know that here in the National Assembly, the government is elected, elected by the ministry, elected by the governor of the NBS. They're the most responsible for functioning the banking system. We asked to discuss the responsibilities of the NBS and was not accepted about. We asked to pass a law that would regulate this and it was not accepted. However, today we have only a few banks that we will try to get rid of this law and I'm afraid that now that we've managed to do so, I don't say, force the Post Office, but in some ways, I would say, politically accept "New Agrobank", will this law open up the possibility that other domestic banks operating in the market would be in a position to also get into a situation to be taken over by someone? I'm afraid there won't be any banks to take over. The postal savings bank is now the only domestic bank with majority capital that can bear that burden, and I don't know if you can convince us that now the Post Office with such an asset that we transfer to it can be the next on the agenda when we talk to her too by some other bank? We no longer have a single domestic bank that will be able to participate in this process and I'm afraid we will be forced to ask many foreign banks to eventually try to save some things. You've been talking all day about the situation in "New Agrobank" and "Vojvodine Development Bank" and I believe you're aware of the facts of how much yours and above all our discussions affect the loss of trust of our citizens in our domestic banks. Many here have said it took us 10 years and more to regain our trust in our banks, especially our domestic banks. Believe me, when only one sign in the paper shows up, let alone that we spend all day talking about it, and I'm not sure how many of our savings and citizens will show up at the door of these banks to invest their money and how many businesses will come to leave their deposits there and to look for their loans. Here we ask ourselves -- where are the money, where are the hundreds of millions because they couldn't just disappear? When it comes to a business bank, it is known that a lot of documentation is submitted with the request for credit, which supports and from which it is seen whether the borrower is operating positively and what is his credit rating. Believe me, every bank has its own credit committee that handles these demands. Believe me, every bank has its own risk service that assesses whether it is necessary to give such an entity credit. You can go after the money. When the economic operator gets the money by order, you know where he's transferring it. Either spend them on something needed under his business or transfer them to another economic operator. So going after a trail of money, we can get to where the money went where the money went. Money can't go away. The Democratic Party of Serbia has tried to correct the law with amendments. We'll see how much these amendments will be accepted. In the event that an amendment is adopted that will shape the duration of this law, because don't let the law take as long as it takes for all domestic banks operating on our market to disappear, or transfer them to some other banks, until that moment, and then we won't have any more domestic banks that will be able to represent our Serbian banking system first and foremost. We appeal primarily to this government not to be like with the previous government, not to bear the responsibility of the governor, not to bear the responsibility of the finance minister, not to bear the responsibility of the entire government, not to bear the responsibility of the Deposit Insurance Agency, but also to open their eyes when they monitor the bank's business. We don't know if we'll vote for this bill. We'll see if any of our amendments are accepted, and in that case we'll decide if we vote yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3346	The word is Mr. Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3347	I've been here all day, and I really don't know what you're talking about. Are we talking about foreign banks' problems or national domestic banks' problems? Who's the bad guy here in this case? What are you talking about? To make domestic banks disappear, that's bullshit. What law to make it disappear? We keep deposits of Serbian citizens who are ruined by poor governance in domestic banks. Agrobank is not a foreign bank, it never was. Antonic is not German, he was the bank manager. Nikezic was not Italian, he was a representative of the state on the bank's board of directors. The Vojvodina Development Bank is run by the province. Bojan Pitiæ is not Swiss. So, we're talking about home-smart ruining these banks. You think it's a good thing that we're spending 250m euros on saving our own mind's ass right now. Don't talk here about wanting some foreigners there, conspiracy theory, to limit the length of the law. We won't limit the length of the law. You don't have to vote for the law. You haven't figured anything out during this whole debate. The problem is that you had political placements in two politically-run banks. One was indirectly politically led, it was Agrobank. The second one was totally politically led, it's the Vojvodina Development Bank. We're throwing someone a job here now, etc. If you don't understand, don't talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3348	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3349	Mr. Minister, of course we understand what the problem is. The problem is mildly said, not knowing that the National Bank of Serbia did not know what was going on in Agrobank, that the finance minister did not know what was going on in Agrobank, that the state authorities did not know what was going on in Agrobank. They knew. The fact is that these were political banks, the fact is they didn't operate according to the laws that other business banks operate under, the fact that they were political banks and the fact is that these banks, and they happened to be domestic banks, because the state has a stake in domestic banks, now failed, above all, "Agrobank". As far as I can tell, it's going to happen tomorrow with Vojvodina Development Bank. We're not saying here that we want to destroy intentionally domestic banks. The state held domestic banks, and who represents a state in these banks, or who was management in those banks? They were people elected by the Government and the Ministry of Finance. Who was on the boards of these banks? They were also elected by the Government and the Ministry of Finance. So responsibility lies primarily in state structures. Those are the DSS MPs' statements that have been pointed out several times. We're not saying that you want to destroy domestic banks now, that there are no domestic banks, but it happened, starting with the fact that the state participated, that it had its own capital, slightly said, in non-domestic transactions, for that there is a harder word, that we now have a problem with domestic banks, and that once large domestic banks, and that these very domestic banks, which now only participate with a few percent in the entire banking sector, are undermining the banking system of this country. We are now in a situation, i.e. the state, taxpayers, to single out 250 new millions of euros for the postal savings bank so that it can accept the "New Agrobank" painlessly and hopefully have a healthy bank that will without consequence continue to work, which will preserve deposits and business entities and citizens. So you may have misunderstood me. Responsibility lies with you know who it's on. We remain in the interest of such negligence or, more strictly, crime must also be held accountable for domestic banks. This is an extortional move. You were forced, this government, to make a move like this. It's an emergency procedure, the amendments are filed, and there's still a lot to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3350	Thank you. Miss Jerkov, on what basis are you answering? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3351	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Please draw attention to the minister that he cannot speak to the MPs in such a tone and in a way that he spoke to a colleague from the DSS. It is extremely inappropriate to talk in such a way, in those words and in that tone. Just because someone disagrees with what the minister said doesn't mean that he doesn't understand what it's about, doesn't know what it's about or doesn't need to talk about in the Assembly. Everyone should speak in the Assembly. Anyone elected by the citizens has the right to speak of whatever they want, and you, Mr. Minister, if you disagree or if you cannot speak to the MPs in a decent tone, then you better keep what you have to say, rather than yell at the MPs. It really doesn't make sense, and you should have warned him, Madam President. We're all tired, the debate goes on for a long time, it's all just not pleasant, but it doesn't give Mr. Secretary the right to behave like this in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3352	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. Just to remind you, since you advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was your duty to say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. Now it's over and I don't feel obliged to explain. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3353	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it seems there is only one matter to discuss in the end. Why is this subject in the form of law today in front of us? Because we are the only authorized representatives of the owner. It's not domestic and foreign, but the state doesn't, when a state, the owner, has no other way but to address the highest. And that, I see, has caused a lot of discrepancies, because this is one of the different proposals that can ensure that the owner who sets up and manages, and answers for the citizens who are investors, and for the economy that is the investor, saves something in the only possible way. Of course the law is extorted and there's no reason to discuss it further, and I'm not doing it. The only thing that existed was as serious as that, because this is Serbia, by promising that the amendment would be filed, with this kind of extortion law, where the state is looking for a way to save something that the representatives of the state are responsible for, that it must be limited. Since that condition is fulfilled, there's no need to talk about part two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-24-0.u3354	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. Dear People's MPs, before we finish today's work, I remind you that tomorrow, on Thursday, October 25, 2012, a part of the session will be held between 16 and 19 hours in which MPs ask parliamentary questions to the members of the government, in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the work on the agenda of this session will continue on Friday, 26 October 2012, at 10.00 p.m., by searching the details of the session's single agenda. Thank you. Dear People's MPs, since today is the last Thursday of the month, in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 1900 hours. The Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia informed the National Assembly that the following members of the government were unable to attend today's session asking parliamentary questions: Ivica Dacic, Prime Minister, Suzanne Grubjesic, Deputy Prime Minister Jovan Krkobbic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications Ivan Mrkic, Foreign Minister Bratislav Petkovic, Culture and Information Minister and Sulejman Ugljanin, Minister without portfolio. Before we start asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that apply to the way MPs are asked. The MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a single minister or government under their jurisdiction. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. The President of the National Assembly will warn the MP, who asks a parliamentary question, if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. The government, or the minister, must reply orally immediately to the oral question. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of three minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and giving answers, thus not allowing replication and reference to the injury of the Businessmen. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, so that, in turn, the first word will be given to MPs who do not belong to any of the parliamentary groups, and then MPs from the least to the largest parliamentary group. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf the students of the Faculty of Political Sciences, who are currently following a part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall. Please welcome our guests. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
