ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1810	My question is addressed to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which is responsible for fighting and disability protection and refers to the following: When and how the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will solve the problem of war veterans in Serbia who are slowly coming out to the public on several grounds these days. First of all, the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg has reached a verdict that fully restores the rights of war veterans in Serbia to the jurisdiction of our judicial authorities, however, with a clear decision that discrimination against earlier verdicts is at stake and that Serbia's war veterans should pay back their backlogs and comply with all their obligations to war veterans. This is likely to be a major blow to the Republic of Serbia's budget in the coming period, I suppose in 2013, and will lead to unplanned funds, likely to have to pay off from the budget to war veterans. In order for all of this to be pre-warned, on several occasions, five times more specifically, the Bill on Combat-Invalid Protection came to this house, and five times because of various political disagreements, he was withdrawn from this assembly. Simply, the Law on Combat-Invalid Protection, which regulates the rights of veterans, has been valid since 1998. Today, this law is no longer applicable in full capacity and needs to be adopted new. The question is – when will the Ministry come out with a proposal to the Government or the Assembly to pass the Law on martial law and whether this law will cover war veterans, in order to avoid all those speculations and opportunities to credit war veterans again that they are someone and something that destroys the reputation of this state, and they are not and we are obliged to acknowledge it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1811	Thank you. The word is Judith Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1812	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to ask the government a question. The question would be - what does the Government intend and what will the Government do to address certain problems that arise when the Constitutional Court assessed on July 10, 2012 the unconstitutional nature of several provisions regarding the Law on determining the jurisdiction of the province of Vojvodina. In fact, the decision is one in a series of decisions that represents only the continuity of a wrong Serbian state policy towards the AP Vojvodina. This erroneous policy has resulted in a constant economic downturn in the province of Vojvodina. with constant ruin, which does not, in fact, benefit the state of Serbia and normally harm the province of Vojvodina. What is involved in jeopardizing the Republic of Serbia, which is contained in the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina? Do they threaten babies? Are they jeopardizing the family? Is it, therefore, jeopardizing the right social policy that the province of Vojvodina could lead if it has certain powers and in that matter, which is challenged by this Constitutional Court decision? Is the statehood of the Republic of Serbia at risk if Vojvodina leads a responsible agrarian policy and creates it, and not only suffers the consequences of one wrong agrarian policy? Whether it threatens the statehood of the Republic of Serbia if the province of Vojvodina leaves certain competences with national councils, and I would remind you that it has just passed the Law on National Councils. So these are all questions we expect answers to. We expect answers because there's no time left. Twenty years of wrong politics is too much. Too much because she keeps going, she hasn't stopped anywhere. It may have tried in the previous government, but apparently it wasn't enough. Systemically, there's not a few issues that can be solved. As the government changes, in that case, only the central government's relationship to the province of Vojvodina deteriorates. Therefore, the key questions are here whether a political consensus is being made to change the constitution and change the constitutional position of the province of Vojvodina? The key question is whether the European Commission will soon give its opinion on how the Republic treats its province of Vojvodina? Is this report saying that what is symbolically given to the province will now be taken away, or what has already been taken away? Does this mean that, despite a single push for decentralisation, Serbia is actually taking a course for and how seriously and further centralisation of this country? So, Vojvodina suffers all these wanderings and all these wrong steps that are actually being taken, and I think the time has come for concrete problems to be solved, and not to give in to one of these syphides, one of the usual images that is sent to our public and to the world, that Serbia is not giving up on having one strong central authority, and that the province represents more colonies for it than anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1813	Thank you. Next, Dusan Milosavljevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1814	Dear Vice President, I would like to ask the Republic Government and the Ministry of Health whether it intends to prevent the departure of the smartest, young, completed medical students, young doctors, young engineers, young workers abroad? As a professor of the Medical Faculty and as president of the Republika Srpska Assembly for Health and Family, I want to inform the republican government and I want to inform Serbian citizens that we have an example that a huge number of young doctors leave Serbia and find employment in Germany. I'll tell you that at the Nis Bureau you have more than 500 doctors waiting for work at the Bureau, in Belgrade more than 2,000 doctors are waiting for work at the Bureau, while currently in Serbia you have so-called. The scouts of the German agencies who are looking for the best of our doctors and who guarantee work and hire them and take them to Germany to work and treat German citizens. As a MP for the DS, I advocate that the best doctors treat the citizens of Serbia, not to treat the citizens of Germany or the citizens of Austria, or some other country. The state of Serbia has invested huge money in the education of these young people and the state of Serbia must take care of them, find ways to find a job, not watch those children leave, leave Serbia. It is precisely because of this concern and the Ministry of Health back in 15 years that the health care system has collapsed, threatened, and I think that one way to find a system way to solve the problem of stopping young doctors from going abroad. The second question, the same Ministry of Health and the same republican government – do we need B92 to solve the systemic problems of "Break for Babies" or should the state do it? What kind of state is Serbia when it solves strategic problems in the health care system in humanitarian actions? Does the state of Serbia have no hearing to provide incubators for children, but rather some TV house should do it? With admiration, I welcome TV B92's initiative and all the honours of the initiative, but I resent the poor work of the Ministry of Health and the Republic Government that has not heard the problem that exists in the Serbian society. The second question is not about babies, but about the most difficult patients who die and the Ministry of Health and the Republic Government sees us treating them. I'll give you an example of patients suffering from malignant head and neck tumors, but I can also tell you malignant tumors of all organs in the human organism, which are faced with a problem that I can't get in line for air therapy. In Nis, it is two months for air therapy, New Sad is waiting and stronger, so I ask you, Republic Government – is it necessary for B92 or some other national television to restart the initiative to buy air therapy machines, and for these people who are on waiting lists to help and save lives, or is that the role of the Republic Government? I'll tell you as a professor who's doctored in Zurich, it's impossible that if you wait two months and when you get your turn, you have a chance to live. I ask the Republic Government and the Ministry of Health to solve the problem of oncological treatment of patients in Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Belgrade and Nis, and not to wait again for some humanitarian action and that someone has more hearing than a resolution ministry than this republican government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1815	Thank you. The word is Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1816	I ask my question to Serbian Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, and it concerns the issue of war damage done to our country by fascist Germany during World War II. In fact, Tito's Yugoslavia is also waiting for her, regardless of her contempt for those who created Yugoslavia against the Thessaloniki warriors, she despised the officers and soldiers who were captured and interned in Germany, and largely maintained Germany's economy as prisoners of war. Even Tito's Yugoslavia has been asking the question of war damage, and in that sense, it has received a certain amount of damage. It is a famous agreement by Tito-Brant, concluded in 1973, and an integral part of the agreement is that a large number, because then unemployed workers in Tito's paradise, over a million workers, get passports and go away from Germany and EU countries with their belly after bread. What's my question, was the Tito-Brant Agreement fully regulated the damages issue, because it's not just war prisoners, it's also about compensation for 1,380,000 civilians killed, for 42,000 working-incapacitated people, for 17,000 forced interned workers in Germany, for 530,000 forced displaced workers. I'm talking about the former Yugoslavia? Of course, the question of succession solves the number of people from Serbia and over 320,000 forced recruits, over 5,000 officers of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia who spent the period from 1941 to 1945 in Germany, and over 300,000 mostly Serb and Montenegrin soldiers who were prisoners of war. In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia established a commission in 2008 with the task of bringing the issues to an end. According to my information, the commission never met, didn't even get the work room or the means to work. I even heard that some members of the commission died, so my question is what did the commission formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, on these issues? Also, the question for Minister Dacic, as police minister, is there any knowledge that they existed next to regular associations, particularly war prisoners and many associations and organisations that, above all, had been abused by war prisoners and their families, by taking certain funds to families, promised to ensure that the damage would be paid, and that never occurred? It should also be noted for the public that even some German companies have voluntarily paid certain amounts to war prisoners, but what is interesting, which is the matrix that has been going on since 1945 and here, that only three categories of the population have achieved no right to compensation. Tito charged part of the war damage, but he invested it in economic development and industrialization, etc. Neither the dinars got any military prisoners, nor their families. Three categories of people had no use for the state. These are first of all Thessaloniki's warriors, they are captured officers and soldiers of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and they are justos. I think it's recently been time to put all these issues on the agenda, not to discriminate between people who were members of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia's army and possibly members of the Partisan movement, which Tito, above all because they occupied Serbia, had violently changed the social political system, which caused a brother-killing war, which had economically reversed the country and ruined the perspectives of this country, Tito rewarded them richly. So my question is - what did the state commission that was formed in 2008 do on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1817	Thank you. The word is Marko Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1818	Your Honor, my first question is this. In October, it will be exactly 100 years since the start of the Balkan wars, which are primarily the Serbian Liberation Wars, which started around 1804 and ended in 1912. I think it is a significant date for Serbian history and that this high home of Serbian Parliament should mark the bright moments of Serbian history. On the other hand, let me remind you that these wars have ended in the peace of London, which the state of Serbia has been recognised primarily by the so-called Freed territory of old Serbia, where Kosovo and Metohija belong. Unfortunately, throughout 2012, we have the opportunity to look at the pain, not to say fear or the need for the public in Serbia who simply does not want to mark this significant date of Serbian history. I personally believe that most of the MPs here believe that the Balkan wars were primarily liberating, not imperial. For this reason, I assume that both this assembly and its president in October will in a decent, appropriate manner mark the bright moments of Serbian history. My second question was also addressed to the president of the Serbian Parliament. I have a number of requests or requests, primarily the leaders of the Serbian state institutions, who live in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, beginning with the president of municipalities, deans, directors of public and educational institutions, to meet once a month with the president of the Serbian Parliament, that they can then, in a classical, realistic way, tell him the problems they are facing and are coming to them. I suppose the president of the Serbian Parliament will have the hearing to receive these people. It is certain that in the previous session, the president of the Serbian Parliament had contacts with people from Kosovo and Metohija, however, more with those who are in the institutions of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, I guess in this way risking to recognise another Albanian state in the Balkans. I understood that policy, given that it was made under the foreign exchange that the EU has no alternative. I suppose the new president of the Serbian Parliament has a foreign exchange that only Serbia has no alternative and that it will meet these people who are so eager to wait for a voice and peace from the Serbian state, that at least once a month he accepts and listens to them, where in a correct and realistic way he could hear the rapture and voices of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1819	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Suzanne Spasojevic, Vesna Stepic and Riza Halimi. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in addition to the representatives of the motions of Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry, Verica Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, Zorana Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment, Goran Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, I have also called for the members to attend: Vlajko Senić and Ivica Kotic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry, Radina Todović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, Ljubica Matić, Assistant Minister of Finance and Economy, Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy and Hope, Head of Finance and Business Affairs. We continue to work and move on to a common principle and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in paragraphs 25 to 28 of the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 25 to 28 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time for debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group - one hour, 16 minutes and 48 seconds, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - one hour, one minute and 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia - 30 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds, the United Regions of Serbia - 18 minutes, the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democratic Party - 16 minutes and 48 seconds, the Parliamentary Group of PUPS - 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the Parliamentary Group of New Serbia - nine minutes and 36 seconds, the Single Serbia Group – eight minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia – six minutes, the National Party of Serbia – the National Party of Serbia – the Republic of Serbia – the Republic of Serbia – six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement, shall determine no more than three participants in the debate who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Djordža Stojsic – Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats of Vojvodina, MP Zoltan Pek – MP SLM, MP of Snježana Stojanović Plassic – MEP of the URS, MP Dejan Mihajlov – MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Dejan Radenkovic – MP of the SPS, MP Mirko Cvetković – MP of the DS, MP Mirko Cikiriz – MP of the SPO-DHS, MP of the People's Group Veroljub Arsic – MP of the SNS. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, Proposal for a Law establishing maximum earnings in the public sector. Do the proposing representatives, Mladjan Dinkic, Finance and Business Minister Verica Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, do Mr Dinkic want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1820	Member of the 107th Dignity of the Assembly. There is no more important moment in one parliament and more important meeting between the authorities and the opposition than budgeting. To be dignified, I am now addressing you, because you have invited those who will be present, how is it possible that we are discussing the budget when there is no Prime Minister who is responsible and responsible above all, because this is the rebalancing of the government. She's proposing it. Secondly, I don't see a single SNS minister here who also participates in the government and participates very loudly. What is it, is only Mr. Dinkic sent here a clay pigeon who will fight the opposition here, the rest will stay aside and this will be some rebalancing solely for Mr. Dinkic. All that's wrong with him is that it's Mr. Dinkic's policy. I resent you for not insisting that a complete government come here or at least most of it, in principle with the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1821	Thank you. Minister Dinkic as finance and economy minister is present at the session, so we think we can continue the session. Mr. Dinkich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1822	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament allow me, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to present the 2012 budget rebalancing with a set of accompanying laws that are part of a broader fiscal consolidation package. Conversation on the budget is always an opportunity for peoples' MPs and citizens of Serbia to be told the government's economic policy. First of all, it always has to start from the present state. All those who have studied the economy know that the worst possible situation for a country exists if so-called. a double deficit, if there is high inflation in the economy and if you still have a recession. All four things are present today in Serbia. The worst theoretically imaginable situation in the economic textbook is the one found by the current new government of the Republic of Serbia. The double deficit means that the budget deficit has historically reached 7.1% of GDP, that the current balance of payments deficit has also reached a very, very high situation of over 10% of GDP. Public debt is currently at 56% of GDP, up to the end of this year as much as 60% of GDP. Serbia's economy has been in recession for two consecutive quarters. In the first half of the year, gross domestic product was achieved. This year, we'll end up at best with a 1% drop. Inflation has crossed the borders that the previous NBS leadership has set as the limits of possible growth. So in the situation of a double deficit with recession and high inflation, the new government needs to find a solution to how to make a turn. We have a clear plan. I came here today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to tell you this plan. In such a situation which, for both economic experts and businessmen, is indeed the theoretical worst possible scenario, no unilateral measures are possible. It's just a savings policy or just a spending policy, it's wrong. The combination must be done and this very precise combination of austerity measures and measures to stimulate consumption. Therefore, only saving, or tightening the belt, would not lead to the recovery of the Serbian economy, regardless of what might reduce the budget deficit. On the other hand, stimulating consumption that is necessary to raise economic activity is not possible under the conditions of high public debt and a huge budget deficit. So what's the solution? The solution is savings which, in the costs of state administration, stop the possibility of a debt crisis, and on the other hand, stimulate investment consumption, both in the economy and in the public sector. This is exactly the plan of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we have come up with, with these laws we are discussing these days in the assembly representing the first phase of the package, and the second one will be discussed here together with the 2013 budget. For interest, in total, the state today pays about 70 billion, the Republic of 66 billion, the local still a few billion more. This is triple the total grant for agricultural subsidies. The following year, based on the high public debt momentum found, interest will be required, only for the republican level of 93 billion dinars. So the costs and interest increase exponentially and must be stopped urgently. How do we plan to stop expenditure growth based on interest costs? A combination of different measures. First of all, the prerequisite is to split the budget deficit. Our plan is that the 2013 budget for the whole country, including local, province and republic, must not exceed 3.5% of gross domestic product. That budget will be delivered to you in the next month. So you won't wait until the end of the year to win the 2013 budget, the government will adopt it in the next month and deliver it to the Serbian assembly with the goal of halfing the budget deficit, i.e. to 3.5% of gross domestic product. How we will succeed, the measures we have already proposed and which we hope to adopt in the beginning of next week, already guarantee a reduction of the budget deficit to about 4% of gross domestic product. We will also go with additional budget measures for 2013, to further reduce it to 3.5%. What are those measures? On the revenue side, these are the laws that we have discussed in previous days, which will be discussed in the coming days by amendments, plus, the company profit tax law, which we are preparing to propose to the adoption assembly, together with the 2013 budget, which will give some additional effects on the revenue side. As far as spending measures are concerned, some are already contained in this package that we are discussing today. This is, above all, an increase in wages and pensions in the public sector in line with budget options, i.e. a deviation from the indexation provided for by fiscal rules, by making the indexation of wages, and thus making the pension by 2% in October of the month, and by an additional 2% in April. The second thing is, by amending the Budgetary System Act, we are removing our own revenues from ministries, agencies, funds and all other direct budget users, and on this basis we are planning more rationally to finance, which they have financed, as they will be abolished and we are making savings of around 20 billion dinars next year. The goal is, first of all, to break the budget deficit, but we have no intention of stopping in the following year. In a month's time, together with the 2013 budget, we will adopt a package of medium-term measures to stop public debt growth and bring it down in the coming period, as well as to continue to knock down the budget deficit, which will contain a concrete plan for structural reforms in Serbia. The aim is to 2014. For years, the budget deficit will be reduced to 1.9% of gross domestic product and then we will go even lower in the coming years. What does the government's intention to carry out medium-term structural reforms entail? I must say that in the last 12 years, reforms have been cyclical in Serbia. They have gone seriously, however, have gone unbalanced, as they have been done in some sectors, and others have not. They used to go faster, sometimes slower. Unfortunately, there are sectors where they have never been properly implemented. Our plan, the government plan of the Republic of Serbia, is to implement appropriate reforms in four sectors. The first is to improve the investment climate and we're already on the move. In the first fifty days of the new government's term, we have proposed to you a set of laws that should be permanently abolished by 138 parafiscal duties. That is, on the one hand, the dispensation of the economy and the citizens. On the other hand, we want the tax system to be simple and predictable. By law on the budgetary system that we are discussing today, we prevent in the future that anyone other than the competent ministry, which is the Ministry of Finance, can introduce new taxes, fees, taxes, in the future. That was possible in the previous period. We introduce budgetary discipline through the amendment of the Budgetary System Act and systematically prevent the possibility of a parafiscal imposition in the future. But that's not enough. Serbia, according to the World Bank's report, is only 92nd in favour of investment and favouring the business climate. We are the worst in the work of issuing building permits, on land, on catastran, on urbanism. Here we are ranked, minors, among the worst countries in the world by that. That is why a multi-resor commission of the Government will be formed in the coming weeks, but we will also ask for support from all those outside the government to help us carry out a radical cut of bureaucracy in this area, to significantly shorten the period of issue of building permits, to abolish some unnecessary procedures introduced by the laws in the previous period, to regulate the work of catastrases, and simply to reduce bureaucracy, and to give the economy much more favourable conditions for its business. We also need to go into reforms and the labour market in terms of greater flexibility in the labour market. We will also start reforming the entire public sector, and in the first place I as the minister responsible for the economy and we will make a plan in the first month, some parts of which will come to you in the Assembly for approval as regards the amendments to certain laws. We'll go with the plan to extract the state from the so-called so-called. the process of restructuring former social, i.e. state-owned companies. What does that mean? This means that we will create a clear plan that companies can find strategic partners and we will do everything we can to bring them in and thus provide a safe future for workers of these factories. On the other hand, we'll see who has no perspective at all and simply make it impossible for losses to continue to accumulate. The losses of these companies are not only contained in the amount of subsidies that you approve and which are given to the budget. Subsidies to such firms are worth about 4 billion dinars a year. I'm saying everything, if we compare it to other budgets. However, their losses are over 40 billion dinars. When you include not paying for electricity, gas, not paying for local contributions, taxes, total loss when you include direct and indirect losses of these companies is about 40 billion dinars. Our plan is to limit the restructuring period, which was defined long ago in 2001, to expire no later than the next year and a half. From the moment the law was passed, it will be 13 September 2014. Until then, we will find strategic partners for a number of companies in the process, and for companies that do not have a market perspective, we will find a way to pay for social programmes. It is the only responsibility in the process of further reforms that we can do to reduce the total cost of the state. We also plan to take measures to destimulate early retirement in the coming years. Serbia must not allow itself the luxury of being the first in Europe to stimulate early retirement. What does that mean? That means we won't move the retirement line. The retirement age limit will remain unchanged. But all those who retire prematurely will be destimulated for it. This is a measure that should allow public expenditures to be reduced in the next medium term. As far as industrial policy is concerned, we find it mostly appropriate. However, there is room for its significant improvement. What does that mean? This means that Serbia must take much more advantage of the chance it has in agriculture and the food industry. Serbia's exports to agriculture per hectare today are three times lower than exports per hectare of Croatia, 20 times lower than exports per hectare of European countries. That is why we will continue to increase the budget for agriculture, as we have increased it by as much as 60% in this rebalancing process, but the Ministry of Agriculture plans to put in that budget not only subsidies but also so-called subsidies. An investment component, that all farmers who want, either alone or by association, are to build new refrigerators, droughts and other storage facilities, to be given 30 %-40 % of their investment. It is a measure that has been successfully implemented since 2004-2006, and is then abandoned for some reason, regardless of what all European countries have. So the subsidies -- yes, per hectare they'll stay for the warlords, but that's not enough. If we want to raise productivity, competitiveness of our products, investment must be stimulated through grants and much must be done on investments for irrigation and deforestation, taking into account climate change. We will also stimulate the domestic industry, small and medium-sized enterprises. These measures we are discussing today, like these days, are aimed at discharging craftsmen, entrepreneurs and small businesses. What's their biggest problem today is indifference, a large chain of mutual debt and a lack of market. How do we intend to solve this? There's something we can't solve on our own. We cannot resolve the issue of the market until the euro zone is recovered, but we can do something on our own. An example of the government's programme to subsidise corporate loans shows two things – that the demand for these loans is much higher than many economists and bankers expected, which means the situation is very difficult. Secondly, it is a problem if we want to get out of the interest subsidy, that measures must be taken to lower the level of interest rates in Serbia. Why are the margins of bank loans on the market today in Serbia high? There are four basic reasons for that. Our analyses, analyses by the government of the Republic of Serbia, say the first cause is an inadequately high rate of mandatory Central Bank reserve that is higher than all countries in Europe. Look at all the countries, not only in the region, but also in Europe, the rate of the mandatory reserve, is inadequately high in Serbia. We can argue whether it's true or not, but it's a fact. The second thing, due to the inadequate classification of bank loans, Serbia is recording the growth of the so-called ". non-refundable loans. Why is it inappropriate? Because the Central Bank in the supervisory section, on the one hand, forced the maximum to the end and inadequately classified the security of quality enterprises and did not see huge gaps in the work of some state banks, which apparently did not control them, which led to the need to resolve their losses, which occurred in the mandate of the previous government, which has put as much as 210m euros into three state banks. About 100m euros in the so-called The new Agrobank, about 90m euros in Vojvodina Development Bank, 50 republics and 40 provinces and 20m euros in Belgrade's Business Bank. So it's clear that the Central Bank's supervisory system wasn't adequate because, on the one hand, it put out good, solid banks, whether domestic or foreign, by asking for large reservations, and on the other hand, it was completely letting some banks approve loans without any collateral, without any security, obviously under political pressure. That is why order must be introduced, too, such as the introduction of order in the entire state. What we will also continue to do is encourage the arrival of multinational companies, but to try to tie them to chains of suppliers of domestic medium and small enterprises. The Fiat project is now proving to be really valuable, as it is the largest industrial investment in Serbia in recent years. "Fiat" starts on Saturday with the export of a new car model produced in Kragujevac and will produce 30,000 cars only by the end of this year, and the next year is the plan between 140 and 160,000 cars. I will remind you that even at the time of Tito's Yugoslavia, it was never again produced in Kragujevac by 200,000 cars, yet it was another model that was cheaper. These 140 to 160,000 that are due to be produced next year is indeed a great success for complete Serbia, because it will be our biggest exporter. How to reduce current balance of payments deficits? By bringing more such companies to Serbia, because Fijat himself will export goods, or cars worth about two billion euros. That is something important, given that Serbia's total exports last year were only 8.5 billion euros. It is true that exports are small, but the contribution of this one factory will be enormous. Of course, we will work on making use of everything other domestic potentials are, above all, mining. I think there's a lot more we can do than we did in the past. An example of RTB Bor shows that much higher revenues can be achieved if invested in mining. An example of some other mines also shows that. I am sorry that the state of Serbia has no longer invested in research affairs in the field of research. Foreign companies, which are going to do this, have good start results in finding new findings and Serbia should take advantage of that in the coming period. The dedicated industry has traditionally been strong in Serbia and we can do much more. Which means that if we can't place our conventional weapons on the NATO market, then we need to move to markets where it's possible to do so, and these are third-world countries. So, African, Asian and other countries. There is indeed much more we can do, although the initial steps are well done in the mandate of the previous government. What will be done by the new government's investment plan is to speed up the work on infrastructure building and this significant acceleration. We've been talking about this for years that our infrastructure is slowly being built. We have domestic weaknesses, and these are the procedures. The other thing, the missing assets. Our plan is next in the area of construction of transport infrastructure we intend to go on bilateral loans and as far as this is concerned today, the government will decide to form a strategy for obtaining loans from China to build highways from Belgrade to Ljiga, as well as highways from Pojat to Preljina. The amount estimated on the basis of what has been done so far in the survey of this project is that it takes about 850m euros for both of these projects to be completed. Our idea is that by the end of this year, based on an interstate agreement that has Serbia with the Republic of China, we will conclude a contract and start building both of these directions from next year. You know for a fact that Azerbaijan is the one who credits the construction of a stock from the League to the Cuck. Given that, our plan is to try to finish both highways in the coming years. So, from Belgrade to Cačka and from Pojat to Preljina, which would create a strategic traffic triangle in central Serbia, they made the start of Corridor 11 and brought it together with the current Corridor 10. This would then allow equal chances for the development of many cities and municipalities. This would be financed from the loan, and other regional roads in Vojvodina, both in the east and west of Serbia, would finance from the Ministry of Regional Development by the funds this Assembly would approve. As far as energy is concerned, the plan is not to take any further loans here. A loan has been taken to build the Kostolac thermal power plant, and the project will continue, but the plan is to attract those investors who want to build new hydroelectrics and thermal power plants on the basis of a public private partnership. However, the plan is not to cooperate with only one country. The previous government made a memorandum, though optional, that only one country would receive a monopoly over all rivers in Serbia that could be built on hydropower. We decided to split it up and each of the countries that are interested in their companies building hydrothermia can try out on one of our rivers, so let's see who's best. The plan is to offer the Chinese to build Đerdap three, the Germans Tent three, i.e. the thermal power plant and the hydro power plant on Morava, and the Italians with the remaining hydropower. The principle is that they will give their money to build hydrothermia and thermal power plants, and then they will get one part of the price of electricity charged from these capacities to pay off their investments in years later. So in energy, we have an idea to invest in public private partnership projects. All of this should first stabilise public finances, to stop the growth of public debt from 2014. Today I want to say that, with all these measures, it is impossible to stop public debt growth before 2014. It's an evaluation of the Fiscal Council. We have to stop him in 2014 and then he's going down since 2015. It's a scenario that's real. Now I would move on to an explanation of these laws that are only a small part of this framework that I was talking about. We have today, I'd say, a very important system law in front of you, and that's the Budget System Act. I've talked about it a lot in the last few days. I would only repeat this law precisely to define the definitions of public income, to precisely define fees, to prohibit the introduction of other laws of compensation and only to be introduced by tax laws. It also defines what taxes are. A special roof law on fees and fees will be passed which will be specified under this budget system law. We predict that this law provides that tax can only be imposed by specific law and that it can be charged for direct public service provided, conducted procedure or shop and that it cannot be charged for the issue of evidence or any data obtained by a person from a state body and by the order of another state authority. It is today a practice for double fees to be paid when looking for different services from state authorities. The main rule is that the amount of tax must be appropriated to the costs of the service provided, that it must be determined in absolute terms, not as a percentage of the variable base. It's an important newspaper, and within a month, all those who charge taxes will have to comply with these rules. Those who do not comply, do not fit or reduce, if the fees are too large, their pricers, if they do not receive the consent of the Ministry of Finance by 31 March of the following year, their pricers shall cease to be in force and those fees shall automatically, under this law, be abolished. As far as other newspapers are concerned, there is an end to their own incomes and here I want to say, that there is no confusion – their own incomes are not eliminated by educational institutions, from colleges to schools, not by health institutions, not by courts, prisons, but by ministries, agencies, funds. Also, what we create by this law is the basis for much better and more detailed budgetary statistics. I told the previous days that the current Treasury Treasury has no record of even all employees receiving public income pay. It will be done in the next period under this law. A comprehensive fiscal statistics will be created, which will not only be available to the finance ministry but will also be available to the entire public on the internet. More stringent rules are introduced in the management of commitments. The beneficiaries of the budget will be obliged under this law to announce the start of the process of taking a certain obligation, the indicative amount and the payment deadlines to the Treasury, i.e. local authorities. Also, according to the public procurement procedure implemented and the contract concluded, the beneficiaries of the budget will have to reserve funds at the necessary amount and specify the payment deadlines. They will be obliged to, if there are any changes, any changes to the notification or the Republic vault or local vaults. A sanction for disrespecting these provisions will be a failure to pay the funds. We are introducing a paper that I tried to introduce at the end of my first term as finance minister in 2006, which is that capital investments are planned for a three-year period, so that they don't have to be constantly rushing at the end of the year to spend budgets in order to make some capital investment. In order not to repeat the public procurement process every year, we are now planning to plan the budget's capital projects for three years, and in the annual budget they will be shown in the amount foreseen for that year. It will be possible to launch public procurement according to the three-year capital expenditure plan, although the funds for each individual year are secured in the budget needed only for that year. So, so far, there's been a case that you have to have all the funds in a hundred percent amount to run public procurement. If it is a capital investment that lasts for two, three years, it will be enough for local self-government, province or republic to have funds reserved for that year and indicate the total amount of the project to be financed from the funds for the next two years. It is a newspaper that should provide more real spending on capital investments, not detours through various prepaid advances, in order to avoid the obligation to return money to the budget if it is not spent by the end of some calendar year. We felt it was necessary to limit the maximum wage in the public sector, given the crisis and the state of public finances. That is why we have proposed a law establishing the maximum profit in the public sector, which limits the maximum profit in the public sector to the current maximum salary in the republican government that amounts to the Republic Secretary for Law 162 thousand dinars without past work. It will now be the maximum salary for the entire public sector, including public enterprises and for all companies where the state owns more than 50% of the shares. We will settle the wages of the so-called law. accompanying and auxiliary technical staff from agencies and government. So, drivers, coffee cooks and other auxiliary technical staff will have the same salary in the state, no matter where it works. Today, the salaries of these same people are sometimes twice as high, for example, in agencies, for the same jobs as in the republican or local administration. The exception to this maximum profit will be just a few institutions -- the National Bank of Serbia, the Aviation Control Agency, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the DRI and the Fiscal Councils. So they'll be excluded. As far as public companies are concerned, this rule will exclude those public companies that have competition on the market. Essentially, there aren't many such public enterprises -- Telecom, Galenika, and maybe someone else. We'll exclude two professions from this, they're IT experts, if knowledge of this job is a higher price on the market, flight staff, pilots and those related to these specific activities. Now I'd like to go over to the budget rebalance. So, I also said in the previous days that this budget rebalance was actually an annex to the current 2012 budget, where the new government found spending in the first seven months and could only react for the last five months. We reacted in two ways. First, some of the items that, by chance or on purpose, I will not enter those qualifications, left out of the original budget and represent a legal obligation or a contracted obligation, we have classified as the expenditure of this budget. On the incomes in the last quarter, we'll have the effects of the laws you're considering these days, which I hope we'll adopt next week. Also, for those who monitor budgets from previous years, I would like to say that the methodology for showing the data has changed because of the abolition of their own incomes. That's all. Now literally, the revenues of all sources are only in one column. Some of the MPs in previous years insisted on it, and now the new government has done so. So there is no column of own revenue and income from source 01, but all sources are now in one column, all expenditure financed from budget funds, project loans, donations, transfers, own incomes, indirect users, everything is now in one column and the deficit is expressed on all sources according to the gross principle. That's why the 203 billion dinar deficit is. Otherwise, if we compared the deficit to the methodology applied to the 2012 budget, the original budget, it would be 173 billion dinars, which is very high, to be understood, regardless of both cases. It's just a matter of methodology. But I have to say that the maneuvering space for making bigger savings and better rebalancing this year was extremely modest, not to say anything. Here's what the problems we faced were when we rebalanced the budget. In the first five months of this year, about 80 billion dinars have already been spent. I apologize, the budget deficit was exactly 80 billion dinars, and on average it was 16 billion dinars a month. So, in the first five months of the election campaign, an 80 billion dinar deficit has already been created, and up to the taking of responsibility by the new government it has risen to 94 billion. So the deficit that the new government started with was 94 billion dinars, where you see a big difference between the deficit that was created in the first five months and in June or July. Why does that difference arise? In the first five months, it was spent explosively, and in the last two months, a sudden and artificially halted expenditure growth, because all payments were suspended, except for salaries, pensions and social debt payments. So the payments that were planned and agreed were simply suspended. We at the Ministry of Finance were able to artificially display a lower deficit, as did the previous Government with the original budget, but then not make any payments that would still come in the coming years, either on the basis of their regular execution, or on the basis of court rulings. What wasn't planned in the 2012 budget? Only seven unemployment benefits were planned in the original budget, so seven months' payouts, not a year's payout. Also, 12 wages were not planned for the railways, a billion dinars are that amount. The additional amount for unemployment benefits, which we had to give, is an additional 2.5 billion. Not all salaries, billions and seven hundred million dinars were planned for Resavice miners, were not included in the original budget for miners' salaries in mines with underground coal exploitation "Resavica". For the presidential elections, held, a billion dinars have not been budgeted. Now it's on. For court rulings, two billion were less planned than are actual executions according to court rulings. Nine billion dinars have not been put into the budget for the project under contracted commitments with the Fiat. We decided to put in six this year and transfer the remaining three to the next year and deal with the management of the Fiat. I think the principle of the system while they were building the factory, let's pay them, so we can take a picture next to it, and then when the factory is finished, the car is moving out and they can't get out of here, so we don't pay them now, so that it shows the unserious face of Serbia, and I think the intention of the previous government was extremely hypocritical. I could say that what was agreed and what was paid, while I led the Ministry of Economy exactly a year, not to put it in the budget for 2012. Also, various shifts have been made. Four billion dinars, which were intended to pay interest, have been rerouted to other spendings, into campaigns. Two billion that were planned for military wages were spent on buying equipment. Now we had to add to the army, otherwise the army wouldn't have any salary until the end of the year. All of this together makes up about 30 billion fixed liabilities that we had to allocate, because that includes an additional 10 billion dinars for agriculture, since the previous government paid six billion in January this year based on subsidies, and there was no money in the budget for the rest of the subsidy per hectare, which has always been 120 euros per hectare in recent years. So the idea of the previous government was to pay six billion, to pay one part of the subsidies for this year, to re-deliver the debt to the next year. What have we decided? On the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture, we decided to pay the full annual subsidy per hectare this year, because otherwise due to the effects of the drought, farmers suffered huge damage that would only partially ease this, and we are aware of that. We also brought a package of measures for recovery, even if some of the pieces of drought that include raising milk premiums, in the second half of the year from five to seven dinars per litre and greater dying for livestock, in order to reduce the slaughter of cattle due to lack of livestock food. What's the problem, which even this five dinar premium per litre for milk is not paid in the first half of this year, so that the budget rebalancing will first pay these premiums due in the first half of the year, and then these more than seven dinars per litre will only be paid. In which, given that all these funds will be available in the last quarter, cattlemen will get accelerated payout dynamics, because all of this will now be paid in just three months, what hasn't been paid months ago. The same goes for hectare subsidies. So 10 billion dinars is a bigger budget for agriculture. This is a 60% budget increase compared to the 2012 budget. When we exclude unreally planned own revenues from the Ministry of Agriculture, which are now being abolished, it becomes the general revenue of the budget, the real subsidies for agriculture, what the farmers are really going to get, and not what is written in the paper of the budget, it will be 60% higher than originally planned. Also, I've already said there's been an increase in interest allocations, 11 billion dinars, not only because of higher spending and borrowing, but also because four billion from the previous interest plan were transferred to other spending. Also, spending on social protection is increasing, as we believe that under the conditions of the crisis, we have to help the most, about 10 billion dinars is the growth of budget expenditure based on various social protection programmes, which include more money for the material security of the family and the maternity care, as well as these benefits for the unemployed to be added and, of course, the funds for paying out 13 pensions for pensioners who have below 15,000 dinars per month. The economy has an additional 10.7 billion dinars, of which six billion for the Fiat. So 4.7 billion dinars are no "Fiat," for, first of all, inciting a car builder's program. You know that some companies, even Gosa, stopped during the term of office of the previous government. We want all the companies, not just Gosa, but Iron and Car Factory King, and MIN from Nis, to have a job. Unfortunately, there are expenditures that we could not erase, which are bonds of 17 billion dinars, issued by the Republic of Serbia to cover the part of the debts of these three state banks that I was talking about. Also, funds for the recapitalisation of the Commercial Bank have been retained in the budget and will be executed within the next month, so that the state will retain majority ownership in the Commercial Bank, as if it were not done by the end of the year, Serbia would lose most of its ownership in the Commercial Bank. It is one of the two largest banks in Serbia, and we believe that Serbia should permanently retain majority ownership in the bank. As for the future and the way in which the transfers to Vojvodina and the political parties are accounted for, you know that there is a law on the basis of which these charges are calculated. First, given that you see in Article 1 of this law a different display of both income and expenditure, and that there are no more own revenues, but a complete deficit is shown by gross principle, as well as revenues and expenditures, I must say that the law foresees the next change in the ways in which the AP Vojvodina transfers are paid. So far, before the adoption of the Budgetary System Act, the basis was the budget, which is tax and non-tax revenue, and that amount was 750 billion dinars as the basis of this year. We're changing the basis for future payments, we haven't changed anything for rebalancing, because those funds that were planned are being paid, plus the fees for some severance payments in schools that weren't paid for some reason, I don't know exactly which, in Vojvodina territory. Now instead of being a basis for both tax and non-tax revenues, the base will be only tax revenues, but they are expected for 2013 at an 820.5 billion level. So 820.5 billion will be the basis for the AP Vojvodina transfer next year, compared to 750 billion today. Why just tax revenues? Because non-tax revenues cannot be realistically established and often happened to be planned in one amount, and the achievement was much lower. The second thing, because tax revenues are now essentially increasing significantly. Keeping some much larger base would be unrealistic, given the overall economic situation in the country, because it would turn out to have improved dramatically, and then there should be bigger transfers, and in fact the situation is dramatically worsened. The same goes for political parties. So in the last quarter of the political party will get less than it was in the first nine months, because we are this base, it would be unreasonable to now increase transfers to political parties, to calculate them on the same basis as now, so we took this base at 0.15% of the expenditure that is financed from tax revenues, which comes to this same thing I was explaining. This is a representation of the current state to resume. The budget deficit this year will be 6.7% of GDP in the country as a whole. It is unsustainable because in a month this assembly will receive a budget plan for 2013 where we will bring it down to 3.5% of GDP. Is this rebalancing good? I can say it's not. So I don't want to say something I don't believe in or think about. The rebalancing is not good, but it is due to the unsustainable spending in the election campaign in the first five months, and then the fictitious non-payment in the next two months and the expenditures that we cannot pay back. To leave the pensioners without social protection, Resavica miners without pay, without pay, farmers without even part of compensated damage would be in our opinion, according to the government of the Republic of Serbia, deeply irresponsible, so the total expenditures are higher than the current moment demands. But we're only talking about the budget annex that someone else was building, which was made by another government, which will essentially end in the last three months of this year alone. In order not to be, any dilemma about the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy next year, we, unlike the previous finance minister and the previous government, will not wait for the New Year when we deliver the budget, but will do so in the next month far, far before what the previous governments did. If you remember the period when I served as finance minister in the government in 2004 to 2006, all of the Republic of Serbia's budgets, if I recall correctly, were adopted in November. We never adopted budgets in December, budgets for next year. I intend to continue with this practice in the future, and even try to discuss the budget for the coming years earlier, because it must be part of a new policy and will be part of the new government's policy, greater responsibility to you also to the MPs and to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1823	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Maja Gojkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1824	Thank you for this great honor to open this perhaps and one of the most important debates of this year, because there is now an extremely significant bill in front of us. What actually makes the essence and blood flow of the economy of a state, perhaps it's good for Minister Dinkic and for this government, which our parliamentary group first appears because we really have great understanding of, that this government exists for just about 50 days and every one of us who has ever, at least at the local level of government, been in a position to form a budget rebalance in the middle or before the end of a calendar year, without participating and not being the creator of a budget that tries to correct in September of the month, knows what difficulties it faces. So, the budget rebalancing that lies before us was never again conditioned, as I have already said in the congested state, which is, as we have presented these two days in our debates, which were about the measures that follow this budget rebalance and the laws, meaning, extremely bad. The economic dictionaries say, the large budget deficit of about two billion euros, the extremely high funds needed to service existing loans, the extremely cold winter, means, the catastrophic drought that is now behind us, the elections that we naturally had and the vacuum of three to four months until it was established, or formed by this new government, are some circumstances that by definition slow down economic activities, investments and only some of the reasons that further make the current economic situation more difficult, and that is not news that we have now announced. As for the initial assumptions that were the basis for the 2012 budget, so the budget adopted, now the former government of Prime Minister Cvetkovic, they did not, of course, come from objective but also a number of subjective reasons, which subjective reasons can also be attributed to the poor work of that government, which in 2012 looked more like some silent observer of economic events, but rather to the main creators and actors, and economic and fiscal policies and this, I think the overall composition of the government, I think not only of the DS, as it is now popular to say, is not exclusively guilty of the bad situation and poor economic work of the last government. Instead of growth, therefore, Serbia's economy is in recession and it is normal to expect real GDP since economists have stressed 0.5% to us, and the recession is a consequence in the state, not only of the government's poor work, but of global crisis and crisis in the euro area market and in the region where our main, external, trading partners and investors are located. As for the government of Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, these days we are faced with data that 50 billion dinars were spent by June of the month more than that arrangement made with the IMF and the agreed deficit of 111.8 billion dinars, instead of 61 billion dinars, will correct me if this data is incorrect. So if it had continued to begin, the deficit would have been over 235 billion dinars calculated in GDP of 7.1%. These are data available today in public and in a public debate that was present these days in a state of economics, many economists pointed out this. Today's budget proposal obviously, we heard this today and from Mr. Minister, is not a developmental one, but is only trying more or less to break these negative deficit growth tendencies through the reduction and redistribution of consumption and the increase of income and the resolution of existing burning problems. We can say that unfortunately more reflects the picture of our situation than projections of some development, and we hope that, in a concrete draft of the 2013 budget, this picture will be substantially changed. For this short period as this government exists, I think it would be difficult to expect some more radical, not to say the more revolutionary measures we expect, so I said in the draft budget for next year and quote, I think it is a sentence by Minister Dinkic – "to measure the fiscal consolidation that is being made this year, so their key contribution to the deficit reduction will not be made until the coming 2013". With the state budget rebalance proposal, a total deficit of 203.6 billion dinars or 6.2% of GDP is expected and is an increase of nearly 50 billion dinars, which means 1.6% of GDP compared to the current Budget Law. I would really like, as well as the MPs I represent in the opening statement, that this amount is the result of the situation because to an ordinary citizen, a citizen who does not deal with the economy, I belong among them, this data sounds really scary. I sincerely hope that the next budget on the expenditure side will not have largely obligations related to the maintenance of debts from the previous period, as we now have in this proposed budget rebalancing. These frightening data should concern all of us, the whole state, no matter what political option we belong to. This service of debts that have been recovered, I don't know what kind of message it gives to some younger generations, and then the political option can promise them anything at all, that something different is going to happen in some more recent, responsible economic policy, in some major economic and political twist. As for the budget's budget revenue review, it has been amended as much as the financial laws we discussed yesterday, which we are discussing both today and in the coming days and which are following the laws of this budget rebalance. Roughly speaking, the expected economic growth in income should reduce the deficit by about 1.6% of GDP, and I think this is an optimistic assessment, first because of the short deadline and due to the expected decline in consumption that these measures certainly bring. As controversial as the measures of increasing VAT, introducing, or increasing certain excise duties and certain taxes are, I really have to look favorably at this. The move has been extorted, as has been extorted in other European countries, necessary in a situation where other more drastic measures have already been delayed. I remind you that these donations have been in our country among the lowest in Europe so far, and we can compare that if someone showed us how much has been increased in the previous VAT period compared to Serbia. The increase in taxation can also be counterproductive and slow down all economic activities, so we have disproportionate measures and those reliefs that we discussed yesterday and the day before yesterday, which the government proposes. To indicate only one aclutant example, it is an increase in excise duty on oil derivatives, because an increase in excise oil derivatives is one of the most important energys that participate in the structure and price of all other products and services. Of course, the ultimate effect will be on us, on ordinary citizens and additionally burdening the home budget, so each of us, and reducing, as far as these small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned these days, and business activity. It is quite unclear that one day the government asked NIS to lower producer prices, and the other day it is proposed to increase the excise duty on these same derivatives. If I agree with something, and I think most MPs here will agree, it is certainly an increase in excise duties on tobacco, which, apart from the fiscal side, has a health side. If we look at some countries in the environment and countries in the EU, we will, if nothing, increase the health status of our citizens. Minister Dinkic is in a media presentation, that with these measures, I am not just thinking about this concrete measure of increasing excise duties on tobacco products, we will not recover, but at least we will not die. What we also support is the collection of non-tax revenues belonging to the state, and this is now the obligation of indirect budget users to pay their own revenues to the budget. In particular, this is an important measure because these revenues are realised using state resources and the monopoly position of the public service provider. This will better control, fairer and spend this in any case state resources. As far as the dispensed party is concerned, I can tell that little has been changed here. The new government promises us with this budget rebalance proposal, a 1.3-GDP deficit reduction. I can again estimate that this assessment of the government and the particular ministry is very optimistic, because too many effects are expected for a very short period of time, and this is from savings due to the reduction of the highest salaries in the public sector, and I think that in the overall mass, this is a small amount, savings based on the abolition of unnecessary agencies and state institutions. And of course, you forgot that in your long address to tell us – savings in public procurement. Of course we support an increase in agricultural giving through the increase in subsidies and regressions on diesel fuel. I sincerely hope that these measures are not temporary in nature, only related to this budget rebalancing, that they will continue in the draft budget for 2013 and that these measures that you have now proposed in the budget rebalancing and amounts are not only related to the consequences of the catastrophic drought that we have had. As you stated yesterday or yesterday, several or more taxes, I will only list what the MP from our parliamentary group, Mr. Zaharija Trnavcevic, asked us to point out as something good and positive, it is that these duties apply to livestock farming, to increase the means to encourage the heroine from the existing 5,000 dinars to 10,000 dinars, to increase the funding for the tow of 500 dinars per throat to 1,000 dinars and to increase the milk premium from the existing five dinars per litre of milk to seven dinars. In addition to these measures, the funds are also provided for subsidies for wartime production, potato production in 2012 and very important – the regression of diesel fuel. I think it's something that's good that's found. We are coming up with a measure that has caused great attention from both the Fiscal Council and the IMF, but also in the public of Serbia, which is the allocation of funds to help pensioners with the lowest pensions. The government has calculated that the minimum amount of pension that needs this social aid is 15,000 dinars. Of course, in order to preserve the life standard of the most endangered part of the population, I think even that this is very little and that it is necessary to think not only about this measure of one-time assistance or quarterly assistance to the most vulnerable pensioners in the whole country, but start systemically solving this problem. Of course I will support this measure, because this was one of my promises, that is, the People's Party promise and our colleagues from PUPS, not knowing at all, but to all, it was a model of what has been largely paid out in Belgrade for a year, a year and a half. We were confronted with questions from Serbian citizens why such a measure is applied only in the city of Belgrade and why only Belgrade's capitals have the privilege, why this is not applied in Novi Sad and that I do not order all the cities and municipalities that we were faced with, with the desire to copy this model. Will it be 2013, 2014 for this kind of social assistance? We don't have an answer for that today. The government will probably tell us that already through the 2013 draft budget. Another compliment to the government – not only to deal with the economy from their textbooks. They all ended the economy I suppose at Professor Petrovic's, rather than having something of life inside them and still following what's going on in Serbia. Therefore, additional funds have been provided to realise increased minimum earnings since April 2012. I think the government confirmed this by a decision of the Social-Economic Council of the Republic of Serbia. As social spending has also been seriously compromised, I think the problem is now at least briefly rebalanced by the budget, so additional funding for social contributions. Unfortunately, due to the disastrous reform of the judiciary, carried out by the previous government, there are now considerable funds in the budget rebalancing that have been provided for the unselected judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors who have now been returned to work and made a general mess in the judiciary, to return to work. Of course, they are asked to be paid out by both judicial decisions and by the Constitutional Court of Serbia to pay them off for the time they did not spend at work. An increase in public sector wages of 2% is certainly not enough, but I guess it was done because there is simply a necessary indexation of wages and pensions in line with real opportunities, and there was no room to pay and pensions to increase something significantly. The pay limit in the public sector also mentioned it as something positive, I think it's a popular political measure, it sounds a little populist, but it brings little savings, and maybe you should consider narrowing down the part that is still spared, because we have exceptions to that pay limit in the public sector, and you listed several large public enterprises. Now the intention to bring order into public procurement is really necessary and necessary. To me, those savings that you've predicted seem very high, or excessive, and that would be my question, so unless I'm right, that the planned large amounts of savings related to public procurement. So we expect, I assume all MPs here in parliament to present at last some evidence. To explain who and how he organized it, we now see a system robbery, and what was done to make the perpetrators and those control bodies that needed to be spotted and processed in time. We can't get that answer. You mentioned Fiat, it is necessary to pay our commitments to investors, otherwise how we as a state send that message to potential investors if our association with them only acts as a good advert in some election campaign, and so many photos with Fiat had some politicians, that it was really a turn for the state to repay it and give a positive message, to send further potential investors if there were any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1825	The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1826	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament will present the views and opinions of the SVM parliamentary group on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law of the Budgetary System and, of course, budget rebalancing. Our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, the amendment concerns Article 3 of this Act. As you know, the Constitution sets out how much funding should be given to the APV, which is the 7%, the famous 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. There is no indication here in the Constitution which foreign budget should be the basis, expenditure or revenue side, only the word of the Republic of Serbia's budget is indicated. We believe that this bill will reduce these assets belonging to the APV despite the reduction, unfortunately we will not be able to monitor the structure and change of these funds. We think that the principle and basis of calculating these 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget should remain unchanged. With our amendment, I think we're looking for a real thing. We did not radically state our opinion to delete that member, nor did we seek an unreal basis, such as the total expenditure of the budget. We think what we've been looking for with the amendment is the most realistic and we hope the government will accept our amendment. We'll talk more about our amendment when we get to the debate on the amendments submitted. Now I'd move on to another topic and that's budget rebalance. As we've seen, the new Vladakada has been making a rebalance for this year, she's made an immediate mistake. The mistake is that it has increased the current budget deficit. We think that with this step, there has been a shift in the credibility of the entire fiscal consolidation programme. We've been told and I know that this year has been an election year, and we know that in election years, the government is in the most difficult situations, especially in the debate of budget rebalances, and after the adoption of the budget. I know you spend a lot of money in election years, with loose control being spent, with one goal to win the election. At this time, the political leaders for the elections did not pay any attention to the financial situation in our country, unfortunately they did not pay attention to the tips of the Fiscal Council, and they did not pay attention to the measures proposed by the IMF. In our election programme, we pointed out that we are going to fight for the financial resources belonging to Vojvodina, and especially for those funds that from this 7% should be invested in capital investments, that's 3/7 of these funds. Of course, we have also pointed out as a goal that we will fight to raise funds in agriculture, and we have heard this from Mr. Minister that these funds are also increasing with rebalancing. We will fight for funds belonging to national minorities. We don't think these funds that are supposed to get Vojvodina for the budget from the Republic of Serbia are large, but they are significant for the Region. We have now heard from the minister that the new government is turning the blame to the old one, as far as the major deficit is concerned, but unfortunately, responsibility must bear what will increase this deficit. Unfortunately, this financial situation is also common at lower levels of government. That's what I'm saying, because I come from a community that's almost under bankruptcy, and a few years ago, we were one of the most prospective municipalities in Vojvodina. The SVM thought the new government would start with sharp financial measures to reduce the budget deficit. We have read the assessment of the fiscal council and this assessment says that for this year and the current year it would take 1.7 billion euros to find a way to finance the country's deficit and pay off the main public debt. So the situation is very difficult and the solution requires very determined fiscal policy measures. This budget rebalance envisions a slight increase in the revenue side, and unfortunately too much public expenditure. We think that's why there's been an increase in deficits from the planned 152 billion to 203 billion dinars, and we think that's the biggest problem with this rebalance, which increases the budget deficit. If we look at the business side, the rebalancing is projected to increase the revenue side of the budget. These are such measures that are acceptable on our part, which are measures relating to the increase in VAT revenue. As we know, from 18% increased to 20%, then the increase in excise income, this is about tobacco excises, oil derivatives excises, and I think it's a coffee excise. The next increase in income based on the income tax -- by 10%, 15%. It's interest income, dividend income, and I think the share in the profit here is made up, which is positive. The final measure is to increase income based on profit tax. So the 10% is up to 12%. This is about a package relating to the change of tax law, and these measures are certainly financially positive, which will reduce the deficit side of the budget. If we look only at VAT, the increase in VAT will unfortunately indirectly increase the cost of citizens, as the end-users will bear this burden. The VAT indicated that private companies should pay VAT for realisation, not for invoices. We think time will show what this measure is and whether it's good or not as good as they think it is. Unfortunately, with these measures, the increase in income is exhausted. As for the spending party, as I said, the expenditure side has significantly increased the government and thus the budget deficit has increased. There are some measures that have brought some savings to this side. These are measures such as limited wage growth in the public sector and limited pension growth, what is thought to be going to increase 2% in October this year. There will be less savings with the removal of its own revenue from budget and direct budget beneficiaries and will reduce the highest salary in the public sector and we think it is a positive measure. There will still be a measure of abolishing unnecessary agencies and state institutions. If that's how we look at or look at one side of the expenditure, it's profits. I'm sure everyone here will say that in some ministries, unfortunately, this cost or this expenditure is growing, and we would also point out the Ministry of the Interior as a negative opportunity. The bigger problem is in those expenditures that significantly increase budget deficits, which are unfortunately subsidies. The subsidies, as we have heard, are divided into subsidies in the economy and in agriculture. There is a significant increase in economic subsidies here and would only highlight the company Fiat or the company Fiat, where, as Mr. Minister said, six billion increases in subsidies. In the case of subsidies for agriculture, I think those measures on our part are acceptable. As we know, there has been a great drought and the government has had to subsidize like this and this measure is quite acceptable by the duchy Hungarians, if these funds will be directed to those who are really affected by the drought. If we've seen right now, the Ministry of Agriculture is getting 41 billion dinars, and that's the same in our goals, and we think it's acceptable on our part. There's another measure that started using two days ago, and that's the payoff of 13 pensions. So with this measure of 4 billion dinars, we increase the cost side of the budget. We think if it's one time, then it can be accepted, but if it's going to be that way for years, then we don't think it is. We have one opinion - that subsidies could be paid off with one redistribution within the budget and then we shouldn't increase the deficit of the entire budget. I'd move on to the Duke's funds now. As I said, the constitution envisions those 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. We've heard from Mr. Secretary that the basis for this calculation of these financial assets is 825 billion dinars, which is the income side of the budget. Now it would take about 58 billion dinars to get the Vojvodina, in terms of the 7%. I think this is respected, but out of those 7% of the budget, or out of 58 billion dinars, three weeks should go to capital investments. If we do that mathematically, it's about 24 billion dinars. We know that the practice so far has been that Vojvodina is constantly getting those 7% of the funding, which is promised. Unfortunately, the structure of these funds is never respected. Here we mean the capital investment part in Vojvodina. If we've seen well, capital investment in Vojvodina this year, or with rebalancing, it's projected 4.1 billion dinars, instead of 24 billion, less than 20 billion dinars. I'd like to ask a few questions about these funds on this occasion. What is the fate of some means, such as the funds provided for the construction of a clinic center in Novi Sad? Two billion dinars were scheduled, and 80 million have been paid so far. What will happen to the remaining funds? The budget envisions, as Mr. Minister said, irrigation – 5.26 billion dinars. Three billion of them should go to Vojvodina. These funds, unfortunately, have not been seen in budget rebalancing. We heard from Mr. Secretary that in the coming period, a lot of money will be spent on irrigation, so, in agriculture. I'd stand out here and the Capital Investment Fund. As we have seen, this year the Fund has received 3.7 billion dinars. We've seen the so-called. guarantee that there are four billion dinars left for the Capital Investment Fund. Now the question arises – why is it left in guarantees? In order for our colleagues to rebalance the budget for Vojvodina, they could place one item, take a loan to pay off these contractors on the grounds that the state or the Republic of Serbia will give a guarantee of four billion and the question is – why is this left behind, is that why? I'd like to move on to another question. As for the Fund for Development of Serbia, some funds were provided for the development of Serbia's construction industry, but 500 million were foreseen for Vojvodina. This is what I'm asking because I come from a municipality where I think about 200 million are planned to build a sports hall, and so I'm asking a direct question – what about these funds? The ultimate issue relating to the funds for Vojvodina is Corridor 10. From Corridor 10, 800 million are scheduled for the northern arm, and I think only 300 million have been paid so far. What about the remaining 500 million dinars? The opinion of SVM is that budget rebalancing is unacceptable because of a few things – increasing budget deficits, because one bad message is being created for investors, unfortunately, and the IMF. As I was talking in the last five or six minutes about the funds belonging to the Vojvodina, and that means the funds that are supposed to be received by the Vojvodina for capital investments, so these assets are not respected. The analysis of the budget has led us to some positive measures. What we accept is certainly good, but unfortunately, we have come to the conclusion that these measures are not enough to give our votes to adopt this year's rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1827	Thank you. The word is Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1828	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, the honourable Members of the People, I would like to make one remark. I keep hearing in our political life, when someone comes to power, that those who have left the disaster before have done nothing and that – from us it all begins again. If once in our political life we come into a situation to say – this government, these predecessors did it and that, we move on, we'll do better. Here's the thing, from the bar to the state level, we're listening to the same story. At least I'm listening to her in Novi Sad, and I've been listening here for two and a half days. It seems to be our political culture, and it will take us a long time to overcome it. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I must immediately say that we will support this budget. We will support the rebalancing, for the simple reason that we consider it to be an extortionary measure, the measure that must have been taken because of what we had and what we found. We're not satisfied with this budget and rebalance. Why? We believe that most of the burden goes back to those layers of our population that have fewer. The very fact that VAT is increasing from 18% to 20% means that we hit those resources that are missing from those who don't have the least, and that this time we haven't hooked up with the ones that have the most. Why do I say that? I'm saying it out of the simple fact that we've only increased pensions and salaries by two percent. If we know that inflation will be 10%, as announced, then again those who have the least will be given the most in this revenue side, which means that they will bear the burden of this crisis which is quite obvious, very strong and very strong in Serbia, on behalf of those who work in the public sector, on behalf of the unions who have spoken to the resolution ministers and on behalf of those who on the socio-economic council implicitly gave some support, at a very high price that their standard will go down, but with one silent agreement that there will be no layoffs. I must stress that in many countries in the environment, for example, in Romania, when it started in reform procedures, salaries and pensions were cut by 25% immediately, and so was fired. And in Slovenia, a country that is very close to us, if nothing, according to our arrangement, we had one tendency to cut by 15%, but in agreements with the pay unions, they were still reduced by eight percent, provided there was no layoff. So this government is still accomplishing some things, and they are looking at the fact that it still respects social dialogue and that it still wants to find a sort of agreement and talks with the unions, with the social partners. It makes me very happy, and I expect it in Serbia, that we speak realistically and truthfully. We should say that in this country it is very difficult to live, that a large group of people who have become a middle class in this time are now rapidly slipping towards being really back in a kind of social need. I stress that this rebalancing, which is not entirely satisfying, still has its advantages, the advantages that we will support and which we consider to be a good estimate by this government. First of all, the big news and news for this Serbia is that we will have salaries and pensions by the end of this year for sure. Especially since there have been threats that this will not happen and that we will quickly get into a situation that we will extend it, as we have done before. We are also very happy to be able to have one of these 13 pensions, although one can say that it is a populist measure. I have to tell you right away that one who has 12 or 15 grand and 530 thousand pensioners has less than 15 grand, and if we look a little bit better, somewhere than the average pension that is 22 grand has about a million pensioners, of course, that money means a lot. Whether that money is well distributed and whether anyone who has been in a social need situation has to and we can talk about it. I expect from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy that we will finally have social cards, to see who is in this country in a situation of social need and how to help them. Then we could talk about other parameters. Why should everyone pay equal cheap electricity, cheap central heating, and those who can do it still use those benefits? If we want to be a social state, and this is emphasized by all those who participated in the pre-election campaign, we need to finish this story on social cards, no matter how much it costs and that we have these capacities in a recent period of time to end it. I must also commend the fact that you accepted your parents' request for a cheap, or for giving baby equipment donations. It's something we have to have all the time, especially because of our demographic situation. The revenue side can be filled better. There was no talk here about an increase in income tax. The tax, we think, can be significantly increased, especially for those who have much higher incomes than the reality of Serbia as it is. Also, property tax. We have witnessed the fact that a lot of people in this country have come into significant possessions in a very short time. Look at the houses on the edges of Belgrade, Novi Sad, look at all these houses that exist, and the question is, do we have a proper tax on property? Or do we have that cross-examination of the origin of the property? Unfortunately, we still don't have that, and that's what we have to do, so that we don't properly distribute the crisis that's going and that's difficult. We are aware that this crisis will not go away in 2013, and I am not sure it will be better in 2014. Exactly, if we send such a message, then we must say how and in what way will those poorest layers, those who live by their work, survive all this that is happening? In his presentation, the minister noted about companies in restructuring. We totally agree. There are about 100,000 people around here who are employed and we think we need to finish this story, that what can produce, what can create goods that will be ready for export – it should be kept. They should also be helped to survive, and those who cannot do so can freely go into bankruptcy because we have no reason to keep alive something that will not yield results. I keep thinking that it is possible for a Becay PIC, which has 1,400 employees, a Mercury from Backa Palanka to remain in a very difficult situation, and they have a huge land behind them and also good conditions for production. I think that's exactly where it's going to be found to help these companies that have a future, to finally finish the story of privatisation, and to go to someone who's moving forward. We insisted exactly on these maximum salaries. The Social Democratic Party has submitted amendments. We consider these highest wages, which are proposed, to be a good rapper, because Serbia is in crisis and in this crisis we must make sure that individuals, who are in certain situations, can get high wages. We think we need to limit the upper pay. So those who are excluded, to make it a factor of three, or those other things, the variable part is limited to 30%. I hope that our amendments will be adopted and that we send a message that in this country all those who know what the crisis is are still carrying everyone in their work. In this part, we also have a situation to eliminate a multitude of agencies and funds. I think that's very good. You don't have to cancel everything. There's still some assessment to be made of what's important and what's important. We received a significant number of e-mails from our diaspora during the night, where they showed us the fact that the queen of emigrants has been abolished, something that has existed since 1949, and where our diaspora has benefited significantly from everything that's been going on. As already said here, we believe that this budget is one necessity, that it only means further survival, and we expect you to give indications of reform procedures in the 2013 budget. This country cannot go forward unless there are clear reform procedures, no matter how painful they are, no matter how much they concern certain parts of this society, and we think that right here we can find our way out, and that's exactly where I expect your handwriting, that's where I expect this government's handwriting, which will say, yes, we will go in this direction, bravely, openly, realistically, honestly, with everything you've emphasized and what the Prime Minister in his exposé pointed out. This country is part of Europe, it has to be part of Europe, and it can't be in this state of socialism, it can go forward, it has predisposition, and I expect that it's its quality, exactly what you've exposed and what your predecessors have exposed, you show. If you don't show it, it'll be as hard as it is now. We're just gonna look for loans. As we know, debt is an evil debt. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1829	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1830	Dear Vice Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dinkic, we are trying to give this debate a seriousness that must follow such an important law as the Budget Rebalancing Act and all these following laws, but three days your ruling coalition humiliates not only us, but the whole society. I don't think you're doing this personally, but you just can't be the only talker on a whole series of questions that have to get their answers, and they're not disturbed by the situation we're in. You started, among other things, in this debate and one sentence by finding that the rebalancing is bad. Then why do we support something that's bad? What makes him so bad? Unresponsible behavior of the previous government. To a large extent, I agree with you, but the same model of the ruling coalition's relationship exists today. You're here alone, not because everyone else in your government is doing more important jobs, but because everyone else is hiding. Imagine the Prime Minister or his coalition partner here, who said there would be no freezing pensions. This debate would look different. The Prime Minister would be asked when will Serbia be able to hear the talk of those in power, such as the talks that Putin had with his government when he returned the budget proposal for next year, because they had bypassed pension sector reform, with a message – must be done more and less spent? Politics, Mr. Dinkic, is politics again. You mention saving and spending as mechanisms that we somehow need to find an answer to the situation in which it comes. Actually, it's instruments, not concepts. I guess growth is the goal of our society. How are we going to repay your 3.5% subsidized loans, if our GDP drop is 1.5% or 2%? How will our country serve loans ranging from 7.5 to 5.5% of dollars or euros, if we can hope to be able to record positive balances in four or five years? That's what we need to talk about now, not when it becomes clear that another government attempt has ended infamously. You described this budget rebalancing as an annex to the budget of the previous government. Who voted for that budget? Your party, SPS comrades and their coalition partners, voted in favour of other parties gathered around the DS. We can read now what we said a year ago. You don't mention what you're saying elsewhere. At the Southeastern European Manager's Forum, you said the budget would be filled with the sale of assets. I ask you, will this property be sold at market price or will that property be sold according to our illusions? If it's sold at market price, then before that we have to come to a simple true conclusion, which is that the state is bad at business. You said we had to keep the state bank, the Commercial Bank. What if tomorrow someone else comes to power and the Commercial Bank starts acting like they were acting in Agrobanks yesterday, for example? What are we gonna do then? You mention freezing wages and limiting wages in the public sector. Who's going to work in that public sector then? I guess it's a matter of efficiency. When are we going to establish the principle that a man pays as much as he's worth, so be it at every step of the way in this country? You're telling me that the director of Telecom is going to work for a salary of 100,000 dinars and be a good EPS director, too? So, what kind of land do we want to create? A hypocrite and a liar? A land where the salary won't be enough for the dry cleaning of the dressing room, which we get dirty in a month. Let's talk seriously. In every society, and rarely that society is in a crisis like ours. The discussion was serious, and it immediately resulted in concrete changes and improvements in life opportunities. Why was the Serbian economy destroyed? Is that what you wanted? Which finance minister before you wanted it? Is that what Mirko Cvetkovic wanted, was he here just now? Boris Tadic, Kostunica, Milosevic, who came out and said -- I want to destroy Serbia's economy? None. What distinguishes your good intentions, which you assure us of, from the good intentions of everyone in the last 20 years? From Zelenovic, Bozovic, well, here we are today to Ivica Dacic. Everyone wanted the best. The results are missing. Because from year to year, from mandate to mandate, the wrong policy was kept. The first condition for changing the economic situation in the country is to formulate a new policy and integrate Serbia into the EU. First condition. When we talked about increasing VAT, I didn't criticize you for raising VAT because everyone in this situation has to do it. We asked you to answer why you did not immediately reduce the burden to which employees are exposed, through the reduction of contributions, you gave some answer, we disagree with it, and asked you where are the new markets for our economy, which is left without the domestic market, because the purchasing power of the population is lost. I was wondering if Kosovo could be our market. So, how are you going to go to Kosovo with the newly elected president of the Kosovo Committee, who doesn't consider Albanians a people and calls Arnautima? How will you get there with our goods? With our food industry that you mentioned as one of the development opportunities and potentials that we have in Serbia, and with Vulin, and in Bosnia with Prime Minister Dacic's remarks and insights, which did not go to Sarajevo as Prime Minister, he knew that there was also an espresso. We can't support your budget rebalance. The key assumptions for our support are not the transition from opposition to power, but the willingness to do what must be done. You know that very well. You said that our interest and its height are affected by several factors, mentioned as the most serious factor and those you stumble over within your ruling coalition, the mandatory reserve of banks in the National Bank. It's a regulation of the National Bank. What you didn't say was actually the fact that the man you proposed recently, and you wouldn't mind, for the chairman of the National Bank Council, Radovan Jelasic, in 2008, did the same thing that Jorgenka Tabakovic is doing today. Yesterday, you said we lost a billion and 500m euros because Soskic as governor was not doing his job. No, we lost that billion and 500m euros because the EU adopted new criteria, capital adequacy and committed banks to capitalisation of 150 billion euros. Fifty billion banks from Austria, Italy, Cyprus and Greece. First you're on our market, their banks here have recapitalised their banks. What's keeping, at this point, what kind of financial stability, macro-economic stability? The monetary policy of the National Bank. It is constantly under the pressure of the government's policy. It was a problem at the time of Jelasic, it was a problem at the time of Šoškovic, it will be a problem today. Today we are placed in a high-risk country, from moderate to high-risk. Of us in this part of Europe, the only worse rating is Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm asking you how much it cost us and how much it'll cost us to change the National Bank Act that's listed as an explanation for the destruction of the country's credit rating. The fact that the Prime Minister says it is impossible to lose a 15-day credit rating as the new government is working means nothing to us, because 15 days ago he was Deputy Prime Minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister and member of the ruling coalition, for the previous four years. You are talking about restructuring companies and the date to be determined. Together, in 2001, we adopted the Privatisation Act, authorized privatisation for four years, and talked among other things about restructuring as a model for solving company problems that do not find the strategic partners you are talking about, but in what world do we live in today? What strategic partners? To the Ironworks in Smederev? Well, we had him, while he was there, we were dealing with him. Today people on their hands would go to Pittsburgh to bring Americans today, back to Smeder. A strategic partner for Jellyzara in a country that does not have iron mines, for a non-cox-free Jellyzara, which has no internal market in Europe where the price of steel falls. The truth in front of people. Where are we bleeding at this point? That's exactly the plan we're cheating on each other. Your political friend told you, at least until a few months ago, that all of what you're saying doesn't seem too realistic, your plans. You know very well that this can't be just your job. If you're making deals with unions, make arrangements as you've always done, not with union people who have long stopped being, but with those people who don't know why they're union members, and formally they are, with those employees at the Ironstone, who have been lying for years. With all those who have become, as you say, a surplus that will take the severance and go where? On the street, and what's the street gonna do? Waiting for the charity of the state on a different plan. This social map, discussed by party representatives Rasim Ljajic, who has been dealing with social policy in the country for 12 years. The order of moves must be different, and that's what the Fiscal Council was talking about. Your measures you are proposing from increasing VAT, reducing some utility taxis, companies, they are short-term and they do not provide strategic support for what is to happen in Serbia. You're talking about raising, improving the investment climate, and we're raising from 10%, we're raising to 12% to capital gains. In Serbia with the smallest purchasing power, in Serbia which is in conflict with itself, in a misunderstanding with Europe, we raise taxes and talk about improving the investment climate. What country in the region has such a tax rate? Macedonia is gone, there is no Montenegro tax rate, there is no Bosnia, no one in our environment has such a high rate of capital gains tax. All right, those who have such Slovenia bigger, or Croatia charge other forms of tax. Agriculture, what kind of agriculture are we talking about as a development potential? Why hasn't that potential shown up so far? Did anyone want it to be that way? How many agricultural competitors are we? You had one piece of information that was three times less than in Croatia. About the subsidies we're about to give, can we ask a question about agricultural land? The state is getting ready to answer it. Whether the state will sell the agricultural land it has and does nothing or does not, or we will give that answer in a year when no one is interested in buying that land anymore. I want to ask you, how do you intend to achieve a political stability that is a prerequisite for economic reforms and success? How many of us you've shut us all out of this business. How? Is there, again, a business man in Serbia who is not challenged? Is there a business man in Serbia who developed because this was a great place to work or has everyone developed despite the fact that they live in a country like this? One day on the front page of all the newspapers that your government is doing. Business people are criminals on the same front page of these newspapers on the second day, and they are prominent speakers of the president of the Republic or participants of an economic forum. So how is that possible? What's this about? One day the banks are the source of all evil in Serbia, the second day the bank sits on the board for the economy of the Prime Minister. That short mind, that's the obstacle to your intentions, not our criticism. You have to go the other way. In this country, a man works for a man retired, a man without a job. Of all employees, it is the least convincingly employed in the real sector. In this real sector of employees, the convincing majority are employed in the private sector. I don't know about any successful state-owned company. The handful of people prevents Serbia from sinking completely. Who thinks of them? We do not advocate that people in Serbia lose their jobs, but only where you are an employer, your authority, there is no question – when you come to work, what you do at work, how effective you are, because on the first day you came as employers, you said that no one in the public sector will be without a job, in a country where half a million people have lost their jobs in the private sector. Where is such a system? Nowhere, Mr. Dinkich. So change the system first, and then, under one new circumstance, come with a plan that we will make together, support and realize.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1831	Thank you. Here you go. What did you want is a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1832	Replication to exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1833	Just sign in, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1834	I really wonder what country Mr. Jovanovic is living in, does he live in poor Serbia? It seems to me that Mr. Jovanovic is suffering from the syndrome of Maria Antoneta, which this people are asking to eat bread, better to eat cakes. Why do I say that? To speak of poor Serbia some great, beautiful things, and cannot live, I think it is now overcome. The ideology he stands for, the liberal economy, has also led Serbia to this situation where we are. To talk about Rasim Ljajic, who was only four years Minister of Labour and Social Policy, who visited a hundred municipalities, who talked to more than four thousand people who were in a state of social need, who talked to marginal groups, with Roma, socially endangered, and what these socially threatened have now, he has, by his own work, encouraged it. In that very fact, by making a pledge to go back to the liberal economy that has brought us here since 2000, we will continue to sink. I'm in favour of an economy that will be a combination and what's called a market, but also a socially responsible, and a socially responsible state costs. We're not gonna let 100,000 people get fired again tomorrow, that and what little remains to live for. That's why I don't think this remark Mr. Jovanovic made has its own foothold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1835	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1836	You know what, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister and the Honorable MP, so we haven't all been in this policy since you and I remember longer than your party's last name. Liberal economy or colhoz, that's nonsense I don't want to waste any time on. I'm just asking if you've previously asked DS permission to say that, or new coalition partners? With your policy, among other things, you put this company on the line with that collective contract you signed in the 2008 election campaign, and then you tricked the employees, once or twice, and then the third time. As you have deceived your coalition partners, you have deceived every man in the country and are now talking about Maria Antonetta and cookies. Don't deal with me, I'm not the problem of this country. The problem of this country is that you are guided by and with which you have destroyed this country over the past 12 years. The most critical government was the government I belonged to, and after 12 years of the man who led that government and who was killed because he had no support, we remember as one of Serbia's brightest figures. Millions of people in this country live as hostages to your cowardice, and now you're talking about who's been to a municipality and who he's seen. Every vote you've got, you've bought, every single one, by the charity of the country you've usurped, and you and many others, some and more of you, think about it. Next time you check in, what is what we did specifically to make this country so unhappy? We pay a big price because we don't want to lie to Serbia. Today, let pensioners think of guaranteed pensions and 2% raises with 10% inflation, and those people spoken of by the finance minister who says there is no longer any support for restructurings that last indefinitely.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1837	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1838	I'll be brief, just for a few of your remarks, just to comment on them. You asked, how do our good intentions differ from our predecessors? They differ by what we intend and do. After 45 days of working the new government, you have really system-based laws that change the important state of public finances in Serbia. If you haven't noticed, then you haven't studied it or you're not well-intentioned. These laws carry out the first phase of fiscal consolidation in Serbia, which you say is necessary. Second, on October 1st, 138 taxis and commissions and systems will disappear, with an effect of 10 billion dinars of disbursement for the construction of the economy. Was that the intention? Yes, it is. Is that done? It will be done if it gets the majority support of this parliament, which I am confident will happen. When you say you're not and you won't vote for budget rebalance, I'd probably do the same if I were you, considering the deficit is huge. The budget rebalance is just one item on the agenda. Anyone who is for changes that, according to a fellow MP, you speak literaryly should support at least these other laws, if not budget rebalances, because these other laws are system laws. If we're talking about reforms, the reforms aren't literary. Reforms are an act, and this is an act not enough, but the beginning of a serious act that intends to execute this government. When you say we should go the other way, on the way to change, well, we're headed that way, maybe you didn't notice. What we are discussing today are serious changes, not literary ones, but fundamental, serious changes in the system of public finances. The structural measures we've announced speak for it. A few comments on your knowledge or, say, information on bank capitalisation in the EU. It is true that the European Commission and the European Central Bank have ordered the recapitalisation of a large number of European banks because their level of capital adequacy is much lower, for example, than the degree of capital adequacy in Serbia. Have you ever wondered why that is, and have you ever asked who is responsible for the fact that in most of our banks working in Serbia, the degree of capital adequacy is much higher than in the EU today? The same Mr. Jelasic, whom you mentioned, and I made a little contribution while I was governor of the Central Bank, since he was then a joke governor, if you think it was just my intentions, not my actions, then I don't know how you understand reality. Secondly, when I talk about the minimum reserve rate being high today, it's a fact. It had to be high in the situation where a reform of the banking system was made in 2002 and 2008, but when the global economic crisis started, there had to be a fine measure, not a total drop in the minimum reserve rate, for that I do not advocate, but a measure that would allow under the conditions of crisis to do what most of the other countries in the world do, even if we do not do all those things, because this capitalisation is not always being made by budget funds. In some countries, capitalisation of large banks, such as The largest Swiss banks or American banks are directly carrying out their central bank's primary emissions money. It's a fact, which is strictly forbidden with us and there is no such possibility of our laws, but we have to say, as you say, to people the truth. So the recapitalisation of banks, funding of the primary emission budget deficit is being done today in America and in European countries. The last decision of the Governor of the European Central Bank is that the money from the primary European Central Bank emissions is purchased bonds from Italy, Spain, Portugal and other countries. We don't have it here as a possibility in law. When I spoke to the IMF deputy director two weeks ago, Mr. David Lipton, who was an adviser to Obama in the previous period and asked him if it was possible for Serbia to get, if we have an arrangement with the IMF, direct support in the budget, he said that there is such a possibility, and we are giving it, especially in the time of this crisis in the last year, two days and for other countries by granting money to the Central Bank, and the Central Bank buys your charters and thus covers your deficit. Then I told him – sir, we don't have that option in our National Bank Act and he was surprised we didn't have that option. I want to tell you that our Central Bank Act is far, far more conservative than the Central Bank Act of all other countries. Maybe that's the way it should be done because we're at a different level of development than they are, but that's the truth. As for the work, didn't we show that it wasn't just intent, but the work that happened with the rebirth of the former flag and the arrival of Fiat by the arrival of Panasonic, Beneton? I agree with you that not enough in that industrial policy has been done. Unlike the previous government, which has not spoken, which you rightly criticise, but we have also criticised, not with businessmen, not with trade unions, not with citizens, we have changed that practice. So, on the first day of maltene, after a few days my first meeting was with craftsmen's associations. The prime minister was among the first to speak to the workers' representatives, the unions. Before we defined this program, we consulted them. This isn't our program, this isn't just a government program, this is a program we came up with by collecting good ideas from businessmen, trade unions, citizens. That's how we're gonna keep going. We also want to get the good ideas of all political parties in the country that are well-intentioned but well-intentioned in terms of making concrete proposals, not literary proposals. So I'm open to both your party and all other parties in Serbia, as the entire government will be open to all well-meaning proposals of citizens, businesses, unions. We are aware of the deep fact that this is not a crisis of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but Serbia as a state and that it cannot come out of it unless a complete society is behind the plan that represents the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1839	The replica was reported by MP Milorad Mijatovic and then by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. (Zoran Babiæ, from the site: "Position of the Rules of Procedure". ) I apologize, the word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1840	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure of Rule 106 have been injured, so that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. The speaker, the head of the parliamentary group, brought into some strange relationship the Assembly Committee on KIM and the newly elected chairman of the committee with a budget rebalance. I really don't see that connection, except as a disqualification video, what the newly elected head of the KIM Committee calls people from Kosovo Arnauts. I Googled Wikipedia in these few minutes, etemology, so it says – Arnaut is Turkishism in Serbian, and in Turkish Arnaut marks Albanians or people from Albania. I don't see anything humiliating about it and nothing that would disqualify that man, and I think the previous speaker is a lot more difficult than the president of the KIM Committee called Milovan, not some other name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1841	Thank you. (Neven Florist, from the post: Rules of Procedure.) ) The word has a People's MP, Neven the Flowering.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1842	Point 104. Rules of Procedure. Mr Jovanovic, you have spoken offensively about an entire parliamentary group. If you did not understand the metaphor that my dear colleague Milorad Mijatovic said correctly, we can make it a little clearer for you with Maria Antoinette. You're talking about the standard in Serbia, you're talking about solving economic problems in Serbia, and you're not living the lives of all these people, so this Serbia that's tired, which has no power anymore. I think it's an illusion if you think Serbia will be better off if everyone is so successful that they can go to a winter, climb a mountain and have an adventure. I think what you're saying is adventurous. I don't even think what you're saying is responsible. So, in this situation where the government has resisted all power, of course, these solutions are not perfect. Are perfect solutions possible in a country that has failed like this? Let's agree on that fact, there's no dispute about it. Get down on the ground. What characterizes our SDPS party, I say right away, is a party of ordinary people. So none of us are... (President: Please do not address the MP directly. ( ) To conclude, please do not be insulting to an entire parliamentary group. Your policy has some segments that are fine, as well as ours. I'm going to ask you most kindly that in all future replicas or discussions we really stay in one respect and that we really stay in reality, get down to the ground and see how real people live, not some Olympus where all our life problems are solved, talk about those people and their problems. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1843	Thank you. MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1844	Mr. Dinkic, whenever you point out some examples, they are characteristic of a world where this country does not go. You mention the IMF. Do you know who the IMF's biggest shareholder is? You mention the European Central Bank, Governor Dragi in a country that is once again missing an opportunity to get close to that system. You're talking politics because neither the Federal Reserves of America nor Drago could buy bonds of banks that fail because they invested money that they can't return, that they're not regulated systems that rest on clear values and on an economy that's being described offensively here as liberal. That these are not arranged systems that rest on clear values, and on the economy that is described here in an offensive way as liberal. When you say that and I guess it's clear that you want something to change and you want to make changes to existing laws. Well, that's not controversial. We're talking about the effects of these changes. They will not be positive because they are not followed by politics. Do you see what the atmosphere is here? So you're in a deficit, because I'm on top of the southern hemisphere. If I had gone to Avala, Serbia would have been in surplus, you want me to go to Avala without waiting for 2016? So what is this political mind that requires, as a premise of change in this country, that all of us should be like those who have already been killed in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1845	Thank you. Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1846	Just for a little while. If these were exactly the kind of arranged systems you're describing to me, then the world's financial crisis wouldn't have come out in them. I belonged to you as well as to those who were Glorifying both America and the European Union. It should be acknowledged that each country has its own good side and its own shortcomings. The shortages of these countries are hidden from the public. The shortcomings were in the lack of order of the part of their financial system. Where did the complete financial crisis break out in America and now it's shown itself in Europe? Why should European banks now be recapitalised if they were arranged and perfect, and have the central banks of European countries done their job well? They say they're not. We have, of course, our much bigger problems, and that's reality, but we don't need to glorify these systems that are neither perfect nor well arranged, but we need to try to get Serbia to do it as best in these difficult circumstances and our government is doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1847	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament in accordance with Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that today the National Assembly will work after 18 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to complete this session according to the planned pace of work before the start of the regular session. Now I'm setting a break of an hour. Before that, the replica Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1849	Thank you. I'll be brief. Mr Dinkic, one question of the quality of the system is another issue of abuse. You're talking about the crisis behind which irresponsible politicians stand, and they exist at every geographical length. What is characteristic of the kind of irresponsibility that has caused the economic crisis in the world is the same behavior that has always been here, politics and demagogy. The belief that it doesn't matter what happens tomorrow, in front of our need to solve a short-term problem with some improvisation today. And it happened in America through a policy that put her at risk and didn't follow certain rules, it happened in Europe, and they're changing it. We don't want to change politics and approach, and we want to have a different economic outcome. That's what the problem is. And you can't keep the part of the world where our civilization's progress is based on doubt just because we're not ready to accept the rules on which this world is built, that's what it's all about, not glorification. I'm fighting for Serbia, not for America. America will be easy with and without me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1850	Thank you. I've been setting a break for an hour, and it's 15.06 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1851	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session's work in the afternoon during a session with the right to speak to the presidents of the parliamentary groups, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word was requested by MP Snezana Stojanovic Plavisic, an authorised representative of the URS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1852	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, respected colleagues, respected chairman, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, and for the longest time begins with the first step. This budget rebalance is the first step on this long journey that awaits us in the process of stabilising our country's finances, in the process of creating opportunities for the sustainable development of our society. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a psychologist in education. For 20 years, I worked in an office dealing with people. It's an environment where I feel good. Talk about their fears, hopes, expectations, desires, plans, that's something I do. So today, first of all, I will address the citizens of Serbia, at the risk of my colleagues hating me for some degree of demagogy. Ladies and gentlemen, is it possible not to ask ourselves in front of all these numbers, and we are here not at an economic forum, but in the National Assembly, and we have the opportunity, just perhaps now or now, to explain to the citizens of Serbia how the budget rebalancing touches them personally? What do all these numbers mean to them? I don't feel too comfortable around numbers, but dealing with them these days, I'm really wondering – 1483 billion planned income, what does that mean to the average citizen of Serbia? What do these numbers, and I think there are about 150 pages filled with numbers of this budget rebalance, what do they really mean to my neighbor who's holding a craft shop, who, after losing his job, managed to work hard and with the help of his family, develop his little business, hoping that he will be sustainable, that he will provide the future for his family? What do these numbers mean to him? What do these numbers mean for my colleagues and colleagues working in health care, doctors who, after a long demeaning period in which they lived, came to a level that their salaries were relatively decent, as one-time move in the mandate of Minister Milosavljevic and Finance Minister Dinkic increased triple? What does 1706 billion expenses or 1635 billion planned expenditure really mean to them? What does 56.5% of public debt in GDP mean to them? After all, what do these numbers mean, say, my mother-in-law and my mother-in-law who are receiving pensions somewhere on the border that this rebalance is talking about, or just a little above the border? Can a man who never in his life is a state in his hands more than 50,000 dinars imagine these figures? He can't. That's why we're here to tell them what this budget is about, because they all understand just one word and it rings in their mind, and that's bankruptcy. It is understood by all categories of our citizens and feared by all categories of our citizens. They are not afraid of the Greek script, they are not afraid of Irish, Spanish, Italian or Slovenian scenarios. They're afraid of the Yugoslav script because they've experienced it. They wonder – is it possible that in one of our lifetime we will have another bankruptcy of the state? This is a question that this budget rebalance gives a clear answer – no, we won't, because we're putting an end to excessive spending, we won't because we have new opportunities to increase income, we won't because we all have to put up with part of the burden together. I would say that this budget is essentially about the responsibility of those who create public finances, who run public finances, about the responsibility of the entire society, about the responsibility of every single person in our society, because this is the time when we all have to take part of responsibility, society as a whole for our development, where we all have to be aware that this VAT increase is at this point the necessary measure to avoid that terrible word from the beginning, which we all fear. The responsibility of every individual who should be asked at this point – is it me, if I have 50 or 100 thousand incomes, do I really need the state to help me buy diapers for a child? Do I really need the state to give my kid textbooks and do I really need it if I'm a smoker, and say I am, do I really need the state to save on a pack of cigarettes that I'm going to buy? It's part of the responsibility that we all share together, but the biggest responsibility, surely, is carried by public policy makers and the greatest responsibility surely lies with those who run public finances. In that sense, we must ask ourselves how responsible we have been so far and whether we are responsible now. I ask, ladies and gentlemen, is it responsible to raise public debt by four years from 30 to 57%? I remind you that between 2003 and 2007, we had exactly the opposite trend, with 66.9% of the public debt being reduced to 30.9%. What does public debt mean? That means that everything we earn, 66% or 30%, we already owe. If you make 100,000 dinars, it means you already owe 30,000, you can't spend it or you owe 66,000. That's a pretty big difference. Ladies and gentlemen, is it responsible from the surplus 2% to the country's 6.5% deficit? Once again, I will remind myself of the trend we had from 2003 to 2006, that is, in 2007, when the deficit in 2003 was 4.5%, and not zero, but 2%. I've been in this assembly for quite a while, so I remember the major criticisms that the Finance Minister was also experiencing, Mladjan Dinkic, as opposition economists claimed that the surplus was by no means good for the state. Is it responsible, ladies and gentlemen, to plan GDP growth by 1.5% and actually have a real 1% drop? Yes, circumstances can change. This is something where you base your entire financial picture next year. That's why it's irresponsible not to have a good estimate as much as you can actually increase your income next year. Is it responsible to plan the deficit and promise the IMF a deficit of 1.521 billion, realistically already spending 197 billion, and as economists say, by the end of the year would be 235 billion? That's 83 billion more than planned. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, is it responsible in this situation to forget about the weakest in our society? Is it really responsible to save on them? You know what it says – one society is as strong as its weakest member. This would mean that Serbia is a very weak country, if it forgets exactly who are the hardest. Is it responsible to forget the partners – "Fiat", "Beneton", developmental credentials? Is it responsible for the "Fiyatu", which was really for painting in all positions, is it responsible for the "Fiyatu" which had 500m euros in losses, or "Stava" – that was the price the state paid, which now has a billion and a half euros in income, and I know that the "Fiyat" employs 30,000 people, is it responsible for one such company to deny the right to get what the state has promised? Is this a message that all other investors in Serbia can't count on us to keep our word? In my town in the last year, two and a half thousand people have been employed in "Jura" and "Falke". For Leskovac, two and a half thousand people are two and a half thousand families who now have something to live on. Would it be responsible for such partners not to pay what you promised? Is it a risk for them to leave our country? Yes, it is. What about all these people who work in these factories, and in a situation where we know that Fiat is experiencing criticism in its country from its finance minister and economy minister for not opening new jobs in Italy, which is also in crisis, but is opening new jobs in Serbia? Ladies and gentlemen, some of my colleagues have said that this is a step back. Yes, it may be a step backwards, but because Serbia is on the verge of breaking and entering. This is a step backwards, an opportunity to stop, not to go further and go along a path that is only possible and only right. Is budget rebalance good? We have heard from the promoter himself that he is not satisfied with this budget rebalance. You ask: Why then do we vote for something that we cannot be pleased with? Because it's the only thing we can do right now. Because, let's say, it's a lot less bad than the original budget. After all, is it possible from something you got as material, to make something quite new? Is it possible that any creator, or tailor in Serbia, can make my jacket into an evening dress? It's not possible, because it's not good material, because it has a model that it has and because it's, after all, pretty much worn out. That's right with this budget – it's impossible to create an ideal creation. What you can do, it's stop the complete collapse. What's responsible when it comes to public finances? I'll put it this way -- at this point in Serbia, it is primarily responsible for taking responsibility for the financial sector. I have to tell you that I've known the current finance minister for 13 years and I know that there are many people in Serbia who have delusions about what he's been doing and what he's doing, but I am convinced, and I know it from talking to these people, that everyone knows that at this point only someone who is brave, persistent and charismatic, not to say that it's bordering on reason, that only such a man at this point can really take on such responsibility and stabilize Serbia. Just someone who sees it as a professional and personal challenge, and someone who really believes and is sure he can do it. That's why I trust him. What is responsible in this budget rebalancing is an increase in revenue by 17 billion. It's the result of savings on the bulky side. Only on its own income is 40 billion, of which 20 billion will indeed be saved. Of course, it is also responsible to take care of the weakest in our country. What was the risk of not being paid – seven benefits for the unemployed, what was the risk – that miners would not receive salaries, that the family's material security users would not receive compensation, that the parents would not receive parental benefits, that the risk would be removed. All these people will receive what belongs to them. There is criticism that this is not good, that it should not have been done, but I am sure that in our society there is deep-rooted solidarity and I am sure there is no man in Serbia who thinks it really is something bad. What is important and what is responsible in this rebalancing is that it is public, that it guarantees us, and that ministers guarantee us, that all costs and all cash flows in Serbia will be public in the future. Anyone will be able to track them on the website of the departmental departments and the Ministry of Finance website. I think it's very important at this point, because we're asking citizens for responsibility, we're asking citizens to give up, and that's why it's necessary for them to be able to publicly, clearly and transparently monitor how this budget rebalance is realised. It is also responsible because this rebalancing creates conditions that the budget that we have been promised to have here in a month, that this new budget already defines a completely different situation, or situation that has moved us far from the Yugoslav scenario that I have already mentioned. After all, ladies and gentlemen, some have spoken, including the fiscal council, and those who are the greatest critics of this budget rebalance, that we could have reduced the deficit more, by redistributing those expenditures somehow differently. What does that mean? We had to take someone. Now I ask you – who do you take? If you live in a family with nine children and have only so much so that each of them today has only one piece of bread and one child is a child, one child is sick, so he needs medication, one child is a great student, so he creates a future, so you need to buy him a book, and you need to think about maybe borrowing a little, so you can take some tools that you can earn for the next year, what do you need to give up? What can you give up? Do you give up that tool and the opportunity to make money next year, and you don't have such a difficult situation? Do you deny drugs to a sick child? Do you deny one piece of bread to a three-year-old child or deny an opportunity to learn and educate a child who has a chance to reverse his destiny? Can a parent, one responsible, reasonable parent, make such a decision? So I ask you, the situation in our country is the same, to whom do you take it from, to give it to someone else? It's easy when you have a lot. It's very hard when you have a little. The situation in our country is such that we have very little. After all, ladies and gentlemen, Churchill said, "Instead of worrying ahead, we better think ahead and plan ahead." That is why I am telling the citizens of Serbia – don't worry, because this rebalancing is well planned and is very serious about it. I have one message for the government and the finance minister. A Greek philosopher said, "It's a royal thing to do well and to listen to yourself badly." I'm sure you don't feel royal, but keep doing well. I'm sure the citizens of Serbia will support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1853	MP Bojan Djuric has been reported. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1854	I very much appreciate, Mrs Plasic, that kind of loyalty and commitment you have shown, but please do not accuse you of political parties here, and especially do not accuse opposition political parties that did not create, when it comes to LDP, any budget of the previous seven or eight years, which were against each budget, to suggest that children who have nothing to eat in this country take away bread. This is very rude, especially in the day your government appointed JP PTT Director Serbia as the disabled pensioner Milan Krkobibić. On the day you reached out to this kind of insolence, when you offer for 500,000 pensioners, who don't even have 15,000 dinars of monthly income, 4,000 dinars this year, you have appointed a man who for years, perhaps more than a decade in a disability pension, as director of a huge public enterprise in this country. I think the citizens will be able to judge the degree of responsibility, as well as your responsibility. If you are talking about budget planning for this year, I think that in the last term you were bound by one piece and by the executive authority and you know very well that the budgets of individual ministries are essentially not created by the Ministry of Finance, but these proposals come from the ministries, and in the end, the total sum of the budget is kind of forming in the Ministry of Finance, and then this parliament votes on it. You and your party voted. You had to know that there wasn't enough money in the budget for the Fiat, that there wasn't enough money for twelve salaries in the Railways and in all the other companies. You've been talking to MP groups on this side of the hall the whole time. It's an MP group that is now with you in power, one that has previously been with you in power, and an LDP that has never been with you in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1855	National MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1856	I could have called the Rules of Procedure, because I really don't understand what the gentleman's word was, since I didn't mention the name of the party or the gentleman at any point, but it's okay. I mean, when I say - the opposition, if I say - MPs, is that the basis for giving a word to an MP in the Rules of Procedure? I don't think so. Indeed, I did not speak offensively to any MP or MP group, and in what has now been said, it could be recognised that there is an insult to my account. I didn't say what I said out of loyalty, I'm an MP, I have my own attitude, and I have the right to have my own attitude. It's offensive to be told that I'm saying something out of loyalty. I'm not a parrot who repeats someone else's attitudes here. Furthermore, the words "uneducated" etc. were used. In my eight-year parliamentary internship, I never used those words, and I don't think I deserve them. I used my right to speak. If I said there are critics and critics suggest that someone be taken to give, I don't think there's anything controversial about it and that's a fact. The critic of this budget rebalancing in Serbia has a lot and everyone can identify themselves, so I don't think there's any basis at all. I'm sorry if you recognized yourself in that. I was just metaphorically talking about the family, to explain to the citizens that the budget is a kind of family budget. So, I didn't imply at all that anyone in this room wanted to take a piece of bread and I'm really asking you not to call me that kind of thing in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1857	National MP Bojan Djuric, right on line. I ask all MPs to look at the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The President decides on the replicas. When it comes to the budget and when it comes to the budget, I think the replicas are a much better mechanism for mutual dialogue than damage to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1858	Thank you. This is what I'm gonna end up with. I owe you an apology if you have used this concept – loyalty or loyalty as an insult. In my system of values, especially when it comes to politics, it's not an insult. I think that one of the qualities that Serbian politics and Serbian political parties are missing most in the last, probably several decades, two decades, is elemental loyalty and honesty, which should exist. I think it would be unfair to give up both your parties and your budgets, which she has proposed here or the government behind him. Just as I think it is unacceptable for this kind of disloyalty to immediately after leaving the government, which is what your party did on several occasions, you throw trees and stones at everything the government did or did to governments where you were involved. Now that you mention that parallel between the state budget and the private family budget, you haven't answered the key question I've asked you. He asks you again – would you set Milan Krkobiæ up in your family business or for a decision on the family budget?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1859	National MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1860	Thank you. The concept of loyalty itself, of course, is not offensive. I am proud to be loyal to many people in my life and to many of the organizations I belong to or belong to. If someone tells me I'm only saying something out of loyalty, then I find it offensive. Let me explain. As far as this last question is concerned, I would not ask in my house any important position as Mr. Krkobibic, but I would not exclude older members of my family from my decision. Yeah, my mother's in my house, too, deciding some things. I don't think that's a bad thing, if we're already on that parallel. As far as we were involved in previous governments, I also think that it is quite clear to the public. I think if there are any more of these objections today, I'll answer them, so I don't owe them any more.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1861	National MP Momo Colaković, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1862	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, honourable MPs, who knows which way someone gives himself the right to mention names beyond the context of the agenda that we are talking about today. In a way that is inappropriate to the dignity of both the messengers and the National Assembly. Insinuations brought here by an MP I reject on behalf of the parliamentary group and the party he mentions. If the gentleman in question is appointed director, it's a government matter, you should check and see. Check the information the previous MP was talking about. In this context, I ask you to refrain from unverified information, from incorrect information and in this context, Madam Chairman, to warn the MPs to stick to the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1863	Thank you. This concludes the circle of replicas and I ask you that during the session, respecting the need for everyone to say their opinions, we also have awareness that the session should run. The word is from MP Mirko Chikiriz, authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1864	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, of course, would return to the agenda point, probably the most important law we adopt by New Year's Eve, to a new rebalancing. Of course, I would ask a question asked by some colleagues – why today is not the prime minister, why is not all ministers, and is there something more important for them than what is being decided today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and what is being discussed? Of course, even after the campaign, the prime minister was in a kind of campaign and was sending messages to both the financial sector and the public, as well as statements on the budget that are largely contrary to what Mr Dinkic was saying and what the governor was saying. It is obvious that the government in this part does not act as a team, but of course it will have the opportunity with the budget and with that medium-term fiscal consolidation right to show all seriousness and all responsibility, as Mr Dinkic himself said he was not satisfied with the budget's rebalance. We can understand that, we're not satisfied either, and then we don't see a single motive and a serious reason for the budget, which the finance minister himself is not satisfied with, we vote. On the other hand, I would agree with a colleague from the ruling majority, that we shouldn't really be here to discuss who was guilty in previous and previous governments, because 12 years after the five-octobaric changes, we can only find a few facts that we can all agree on. We're a society that's been through the transition process, it seems to us, in the worst possible way and we're a society that hasn't missed a chance to miss every chance. We're a society that's been doing all the reforms part-time, it hasn't worked very comprehensively. We tried to be more Catholic than the Pope. We didn't go the way other countries went through the transition in a much better way. The result is that today we have the highest unemployment rate in the region, except for, it seems to me, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia, that our low credit rating is, that we do not have enough foreign or domestic investment, that the IMF treats us as minor, to amend the Law on the National Bank and the World Bank and the IMF and the European Commission evaluates the poor, and the response of Serbian citizens to all this is apathy and demoralism. Of course you're asking what can be done? It seems to me that's what needs to be the focus of our discussion. The medium-term fiscal consolidation measures, which are being discussed, the new budget, which will make a radically better turn compared to all the budgets after 2000, are something that I need now, without doubting the good intentions of the finance minister, to believe that possibly because of this promise, that the next budget will correct everything that does not correct this rebalancing, we give confidence in the blank. Of course, such promises have been made for all these 12 years and that somehow everything that has happened has always been someone else's fault. We will pay great attention and with great responsibility, because this is not a political party issue, I think this is a question for all citizens of Serbia and the issue of Serbia, to try to give ours, today and always, a constructive contribution to Serbia's exit from a very difficult economic situation in which it is most thanks to itself. We heard yesterday from the prime minister that now is not the time to save. It's just an amazing statement. In terms of the global economic crisis, when much better and more orderly countries and economies and much richer societies tighten the belt to the maximum, we get a populist, demagogue statement that it's not the time to save. We think it's time for savings, for serious savings and for this budget to be saved. For example, no one has mentioned that in the rebalancing, significant funds are being increased in relation to the existing budget for many ministries, say, the Ministry of Defence by 7.9 billion dinars, external affairs 1.2 billion, the Ministry of Justice 4.8 billion etc., the Office for Kosovo and Metohija 2.4 billion, but also the Office of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, and we think that we should now start from the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, who, just by reducing the budget for their offices, should give and send the best message to others as well as to save. I think it's time, Minister, and the government can arrange it through some regulation, simply to bring in a regulation to start saving on all levels. Here, I'll start with some of the most banal examples. We are witnessing that in recent years, in conditions where society was becoming increasingly difficult, fashion was becoming more and more pronounced that all more public utility companies, local communities, municipalities and cities were introducing so-called. Celebrating businesses, celebrating local communities, celebrating cities and celebrating municipalities. The smallest reason to make a cocktail is to make a banquet, to increase the number of car employees, to waste them on every step, and it has nothing to do with Christianity, to do with Orthodoxism, or religion, it simply has only touching points with irresponsible spending of the resources of all citizens. We think that all parades and all celebrations should be reduced to a minimum, that important historical events, to which we as traditionalists and how we hold, should be marked, but in the most modest way. That all delegations, starting with congregation delegations and beyond, should have good justification for all travel abroad, should be in the strictest composition and costs should be the minimum. Two days ago, I asked the finance minister, I see there's no record of it, probably more than that, as a rule, we'll find out tonight on TV "B92" - "Patriot Robbery," about how many uncontrollable funds went to the stationed so-called "B92". Kosovo institutions, which are mostly located in municipalities and cities across Serbia, under the fissile -- preserving territorial integrity and sovereignty, let's see what justification is for such unsupervised and uncontrollable spending of people's resources. What the SPO and the Democratic Party advocated and always advocated, is that the state is helping its citizens in Kosovo and Metohija and are in very difficult conditions, from security to their social and economic position, but we do not understand why a citizen of Kosovo and Metohija, who is working in Belgrade, would also get a job, and so on. Kosovo supplement. With what excuse and what reasons? That's why I'm saying it's becoming a rule that both "Colluber" and what B92 is going to broadcast tonight, that somehow by the rule before that data comes to one television station with a national frequency rather than a state or a police department. What needs to be done in addition to short-term borrowings and short-term measures in order to really make us feel better and to start production and to start employment? We think that long-term financing is primarily needed, the debt itself is not dangerous, but it is dangerous if the funds borrowed from the loan are spent on consumption rather than on investment in production and on the creation of new jobs. We will closely monitor the adoption of a plan of medium-term fiscal consolidation and without any vanity, any problems on our part if we feel that this will really help our society we will support it, as we will surely, if indeed what this has been discussed may be supported by the next budget, but then, when the budget is on the table. Agriculture, Serbia's largest export business branch, has fallen, neglected both on its knees and on the first step of this government, has been that a thousand nearly seven hundred agricultural engineers who have played an educational role above all and have done important jobs in preparing everything that awaits our agriculture with possible EU accession, were first fired. We don't think it's a good measure. Of course, we think that the subsidies that go to agriculture are good, but we need them to be even bigger, for a thousand and one reasons, but also for these droughts that were extreme both last year and this year. Railway subsidies? Not to be a new story of the SPO, when the finance minister was Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic, when Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic was the finance minister, I said what I'm about to say. At the time of the Serbian Principality, Serbian trains took an average speed of 35km to 40km per hour, while at the time the railways were fully European, modern and modern. A hundred and thirty years later and after those promised projects of a fast Serbian railway, etc. We still have railways that drive at the same speed in conditions where the world is far, away from 100 or 200 years away from us, and subsidies in that closed, tropical, outdated, autistic, communist, intact, in terms of the reform system, are still huge and we do not seem to have enough control of the funds given to the railways at all. Of course, it is a good announcement by the finance minister that it will cut the income tax from 20% to 30%, which was our proposal and what I said in the discussion from two days ago. We also agree with the need for large-scale tax reform, which would improve the state of the Serbian economy, to make production cheaper, to reform the public sector, to reform the labour market and all other necessary reforms to this society, and believe me, if we were to list what our society needs, it would take a while. What's good is removing parafiscal intrusions. However, on the other hand, we have an increase in VAT, excise duty and other taxes, so it seems to us that citizens will not, to a large extent, feel the abolition of these parafiscal burdens, debauchery and great waste, still present at all levels. This in our view, and we don't want it to happen, is likely to condition the increase in deficits, the need for borrowing and the country to lead to an even greater abyss, and therefore we can't expect new jobs, we can't expect new jobs, and so we'll be spinning around in a vicious circle. We think that really populistism has come to an end. This society is thus exhausted with various economic unfinished projects that even the announcement of re-industriousisation should be done in a very meaningful way. So, there should be serious studies, serious assessments of the economic justifications that the company needs to resuscitate, how the market is going to be, what will be the competitiveness of this company, not only on our own, but also on the European and global markets, and only then will we go into the process of reviving against which, in principle, we have nothing against. There are large debts from funds, health fund to drug suppliers, then construction firms are large debts to roads and housing, even large debts and defence lawyers under official duty, etc. What's left over for the next few months? We are left to see the results of this short-term fiscal intervention. We'd like the results to be good, but we suspect that because of our assessment, and because of the evaluation of economic experts, and because of the IMF's assessment. We would have told the prime minister to be very careful in the following statements, above all, about the economic sector, the banking sector, the financial sector, because the sector is very sensitive to the statements of the first government man, not just us, but everywhere in the world. If you send a clear message that the IMF is not fond of you, that the financial sector is robbing, instead of helping citizens, then you will also get an adequate reaction from the other side. I think it should be understood that the government is almost formed, that it has not yet taken a step, that there is quite enough time for the 2013 budget to be prepared in the way the finance minister said and I say, it seems to us, if the finance minister himself says that he is not satisfied with the budget rebalance, then any moderate criticism of the rebalancing is falling into the water, because the real results of the announced economic reforms are expected next year. We will only be able to talk seriously about Serbia's economic prospects in the coming period when the 2013 budget is in hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1865	Seventeen minutes and 30 seconds used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1866	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable fellow Members of the People. The debate on this law is all specific, because we are discussing the budget rebalancing adopted by another government, and another government now elected is proposing budget rebalancing. We will talk more about this opportunity, of course about the budget itself and the past government, than about this, because all the consequences that we need to solve now are the consequences of the previous government that ruled for four years, not the ones that are now ruling for 45 days. Serbia's budget for this year is devastating for both the country and the economy, and it is especially seen now that the government has proposed it is no longer able to conceal data, such as the one on the country's public debt. There, of course, Mr Dinkic owes us all and the public an explanation of whether these 1.2 billion exist or not, and whether the difference in the way of reckoning can cover 1.2 billion differences. What we have to say at the beginning, that as good as this government's intentions to rebalance, what Mr Dinkic would say -- by annexing that budget, fix, we think that this budget is essentially bad. Serbia's public finances are in critical condition, almost emergency, so we believe that the government has no right to mistake and rot compromises, but must be determined to approach the resolution of the crisis and intricacies of the previous government. The Democratic Party of Serbia has warned during each budget and budget rebalance debate for the past four years that Serbia is going through a path that has no alternative, which was the path to failure and the economic crisis and the debt crisis. The former government dealt with demagogogogy and concealment of facts, and unrealistic and delayed measures to combat the crisis led to the correct assessment by the Fiscal Council that the situation is alarming and that it requires decisive fiscal policy measures. Unfortunately, the Fiscal Council only assessed it at the end of last year. So after the Socially Responsible Government, we had 200,000 more unemployed since 2008. The remarks that we can put on this rebalancing refers to a lack of serious analysis of current revenues and projections of revenues following the introduced changes and the abolition of parafiscal burdens. How many gaps will remain after the suspension, and how will it affect the economy and unemployment, and the lack of budgets of local self-government and the Republic, after all these duties have been lifted? The third thing is that we didn't have a public debate on this rebalancing, as well as on the budget of the previous year we didn't have any public debate. It was, however, the manner of the previous government not to have a public debate on the budget, but to give to MPs, who had to adopt it late at night. With this rebalance, the country's revenues are increasing by around 20 billion, while expenditures are increasing by about 25 billion. The country's deficit will be nearly 2 billion euros, and Serbia's public debt could exceed 60% of GDP by the end of the year, which is more than worrying. Given that in 2008, it was 33% and something even less. So, we are entering a degree of overindebted states, which can seriously be threatened by their economic stability and credibility. The Democratic Party of Serbia has warned of the crisis and we have warned the government of the damage to the decision to unilaterally implement a trade agreement with the EU and have proposed that a moratorium be introduced to this harmful decision by the government. The government refused. That's why our farmers lose. They have lost a lot, especially in competition with far more and more subsidized agricultural and economic countries. When there's a full implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, I mean the trade agreement, I think it'll be even more devastating for our government. By reducing customs, the Serbian budget has been denied by hundreds of million euros which in these years of crisis have been able to significantly help Serbia's economy and Serbia's budget and citizens. While the DSS pointed out the need to form an intervention fund, of at least a billion euros in support of companies affected by the economic crisis, whose purpose would be to finance recovery programmes in the economy and to finance primarily job conservation, and not just job creation, the government allowed, noting the Socially Responsible Government allowed more than 200,000 people to lose their jobs. The situation is very difficult and the results of the previous government testify. From the decline in production and GDP to the record budget deficit. The unemployment rate in Serbia reached 25.5%, up 3.3% in April of last year compared to the same month. Industrial production from year to year declines and these are data that were persistently hidden from the public. In the first seven months, less goods were exported than it was in earlier years. We have the largest inflation in Europe. The dinar is the fourth worst currency in the world and we have a sea and flood of agencies that constantly burden the state budget and citizens of Serbia. Consumer prices in July 2012 increased by 5.4% compared to December 2011, and now new purchases are announced, which is what we witness every day. This year, the central bank sold 1.3 billion euros in the interbank foreign exchange market to support the dinar. Nevertheless, since the beginning of the year, the dinar has depressed 15% compared to the euro. All of these are indicators of the state and situation in Serbia, in which Serbia is presently located. The public debt of the Republic of Serbia was 15.3 billion euros at the end of 2012. Only from the end of March has it increased by 674m euros so far. To remind us that in 2008, that debt was about seven billion euros, which means that this government has put us in charge of seven billion euros for these four years. This speaks of how the government and how it tried to solve the economic situation, by borrowing, rather than by courageously and resolutely implementing measures that would introduce budgetary spending and control of public finances and public expenditure in Serbia. Of course, in a situation like this, you need measures that, I hope, we all need to find some understanding. Measures largely affected by all countries in the environment, which faced the economic crisis and liquidity problems in the economy itself and in the country itself. The increase in VAT from 18 to 20% makes sense if tax cuts are imposed on work. This is what we expect from the finance minister to reduce the tax burdens on work, which would allow for greater competitiveness of the Serbian economy, i.e. to increase profits compared to this reduction in the contributions and taxes paid to work. It's one of the measures we expect to be prepared for the budget we need to discuss, I hope, at the latest in November this year. The aim of the tax reform must be to establish conditions for changing the structure of the Serbian economy, i.e. to stop production being expensive, so that our employment is not so expensive, but to make employment cheaper, to impose on employment cheaper, and to create an environment where fewer people will be left out of work, where employment opportunities will be opened, of course, unemployed. What needs to be put in place as an observation, it's an increase in VAT for baby equipment. We think that this is not good and that the mechanism that is designed for the return of VAT for baby equipment is very complicated and almost difficult to implement, and that the government could simply consider that the VAT remains 8%, if not to be abolished until the end, because it is mostly young couples who all have one credit or some licking for a car, for an apartment, additionally burdening them by increasing the price of baby equipment is not something that can certainly interfere with and stimulate young people to work on a population that is one of the most necessary things, one of the biggest problems in Serbia right now. The other thing is the Excise Act. These changes in the excise system envision an increase in public revenues of around 0.25% of GDP. Serbia's government has tripled its excise duties since 2008, of course given that it is one of the easiest ways to fill the budget. In some ways, we can understand that excise duties on tobacco are raised by a pack of 43 dinars, in the second phase of 45, that excises on gasoline remain the same, but what is unacceptable to us and that we have submitted the amendment, which is that the excise duty on TNG remains the same, because it is simply an environmental product, but it is also fuel from the material state that the largest number of Serbian citizens are moving on to liquid oil gas. They have invested a lot to adapt their vehicles to liquid oil gas and should simply consider finding another source of revenue, while the cheapest fuel remains at that price, so that citizens will not be able to use their vehicles at some normal prices. The good side of the proposed measures, we can say, is that the abolition of the paraphysical burdens that were around 235 and that is something that will certainly reduce budget revenues in some way and enable citizens and businesses to be somewhat relieved and to think less about all these huge taxes, which they wait for every fiscal year when they have to pay for the rest, and that is one of the measures that can result from one limited character. Of course she shouldn't be lonely, but she's good. The introduction of its own revenue into the central budget is something good, which is an anti-crisis measure that must record how many states have their own incomes and how many states, as it would say, are incomeing and earning, and that there is clear records so that expenditures can also be predicted, and that we as citizens and we as MPs can know how expenditures are made in one country. The growth of profits and pensions is limited. It will not monitor inflation, which at this point could be some savings but in any case the state should take care of both profits and pensions. In any case, when there is a budgetary possibility, you should consider that these profits are consistent with costs and pensions, because all costs are rising. Inflation is one of the largest in Europe, and pensions and profits should be preserved somewhat from inflation and costs being eaten by the minority half for one budget year. When I talk about agriculture in this budget rebalancing, we must commend that there has been an increase in subsidies that is in line with the DSS' economic programme, which we have also advocated, and we think that agriculture is something that the state must invest in and something where there should always be greater subsidies. The agrarian state, unfortunately, is adequate to the general state and state in which we found the state and state budget. The previous ministry remained the second part of the subsidy per hectare, which is about 11 billion dinars. The damages caused by droughts are estimated at about 50% on average compared to 2011. It's primarily in corn and soy and sugar tail and to a slightly smaller extent on the sunflower. The drought damage estimates go up to about one to one and a half billion euros, only to be known when it is finally established. We all see that this is a very big problem for the country and our agriculture. It is certainly necessary for the peasants to allocate the funds provided for in the recovery of the damages that have occurred, and we as Government should find the possibility to recover as much as possible and to provide funds that could contribute to making the crops much better next year and to provide funds to farmers who remained deprived of the funds they did not receive due to droughts through subsidies. In the cost structure on behalf of subsidies, which is quite vague and the distribution of funds by that structure is quite unclear. This should also be addressed in this rebalancing process, especially in next year's budget, which will be an act in the DSS, the authentic act of this government and through which we will be able to see and criticize and see the real economic policy of the government. As far as agricultural subsidies are concerned, we are coming into a situation to subsidise fuel of about 50% and 75 dinars, respectively. This is subsidized in a way that agricultural producers will have to pay the full cost of the cost, and the state will subsequently subsidise them. This is one uncertainty for this type of subsidy and an inaccurate solution. Therefore, we believe that the solution that was in the previous government, when bonuses were obtained that allowed the lower fuel price to be paid immediately, was a better solution and should be considered whether a solution that is more acceptable and better for agricultural producers, not just for the government and the ministry. It is similar with fertilizer, where the state grants 12,000 dinar per hectare, but on parity of the repromaterial seed, so that again agricultural producers remain the most deprived or left short sleeves, as producers take up to 20,000 dinars per hectare. One part of the subsidy from the manufacturer is poured into the pockets of the merchants and that is not something to praise. It is necessary to look at and find some solution that would be acceptable for agricultural producers. When we talk about the economy, there are three means for expropriation, subsidy and budget loans. The funds for subsidies are provided to enable the construction of Corridors 10, 11 and the state road Kragujevac – Batocina, the construction of the Zemun Bridge – Borča. I have to point out on this occasion that the last government annulled the concession agreement on the construction of the highway on Horgos – Požega for only their known reasons. Simply, if the concession agreement had remained in force today, I would have already had a good part of the way done and not the cost of the state, but the cost of concessionors, but the cancellation of the concession contract only delayed the start of the project and contributed to Serbia's citizens being unable to travel safely from Horgos to Požega, from Belgrade to Požega. An increase in subsidies is something that's good. The increase in subsidies for the economy is also good and that is something that is completely acceptable, that the state must help the economy, but to help in a way that does not end up again in the pockets of those who are always first in line for these subsidies, it is known in advance, a dozen companies in Serbia who are always standing first in line to collect subsidies, but to get subsidies to those who really do something and who really need it. What's good is that they've provided funds for the capitalization of the Commercial Bank. Simply, one bank needs to be preserved and taken care of by one bank in which the state will have a serious participation, but that there is control, so that we do not come into a situation, as someone mentioned, with Agrobank and other banks that may be just on the agenda as problematic. It's a good thing there's no layoffs in the public sector, but what we have to say is that covering the deficits that are going to be around 115 billion dinars is something that is extremely controversial for us. The issue of securities in high interest dinars is something that we as a party think is bad because it is a large amount of interest and completely unfavourable, and even worse is borrowing in foreign currency on a foreign market, where the state guarantees interest in foreign currency, and of course tax revenues go in dinars. It's an uncontrollable sum that can significantly melt state reserves and create a problem for the state. To conclude, as I have little time left, Serbia must turn to internal development, increasing employment and developing domestic economy. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to invest in four key branches, which are construction, agriculture, infrastructure and energy. As a party in the campaign, we said that funds should be sought not only in the IMF and the World Bank, primarily in the Russian Federation, China and other countries, which have the resources. We have seen that the Russian Federation is the first to help the state and the government with a billion euros, which is for budget spending and billions of dollars in investment, so the ideas and proposals that we have made in the campaign itself have now received full affirmation. It's just, it's the way and the way the state should go. Greater co-operation with Russia means the application of a free trade agreement, which we have the only one in the world and which will be a good argument for the very "Fiat" that is so talked about here. One of the arguments for the creation of the Fiat factory itself was the agreement and the insistence of the Fiats to put cars in a free trade agreement with Russia, which would contribute to an even greater production of the Fiats and the fill-up of budget deficits and an external trade deficit. The DSS proposals are old and were given to both the past and this government, which is to form a development bank, to form an export bank, a development bank from the Development Fund, an export bank, an intervention fund to help major economic systems that are necessary. What we need at this point is to break up with the policy we have had for the last four years, with a policy where Europe had no alternative, in which everything had no alternative, except for Serbia. I think it is finally time for Serbia and this Parliament to have no alternative and thus to start creating Serbia's budget and politics, not only in the area of the economy, but also in national policy, which is that Serbia has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1867	The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1868	Thank you, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Minister, by adopting today's set of amendments and by supplementing the law, I am doing what was already clear in the spring of this year, which is to harmonize our wishes and possibilities. Unlike some important i.e. Some earlier rebalancing, this occasion is not just a technical issue that solves the problem of inability to plan the future precisely in these turbulent times in which we are, but above all it is a law that will greatly determine the prospects for the recovery of public finances. I still remember the presentation of the SPS-JS parliamentary group during the 2012 budget debate, when we pointed out that whatever the next government and the parliamentary majority are, only minimal deviations from Serbia's long-term development policy will be possible. It is a reminder that some reasonable frameworks have definitely been established in Serbia that can move a serious debate on economic policy, namely that the issue of budget deficits is not only about taking big scissors that cut expenditures, or the chemical search for some solutions, and the way to get income without thinking about the long-term consequences with short-term attractive measures and moves. I would like to point out that we do not want to turn our backs on everything that has been done during the last government, especially what we have done and for which we are clearly rewarded by citizens, who are only relevant to evaluate the work of every public official. I don't think we should even promise something that's impossible to get any extra points for better ratings, both in voters and in stakeholders, whether domestic or foreign. There's something that's reality, it's ahead of us, and that reality is about what a consensus can be reached about. That's why this is the only right solution. Claims that there are ways in theory to better address the problems of Serbian public finances, I can say that the short-term attitude and I think we simply need to think about the measures of short and long-term economic development, in this direction. Such claims are political, and I can say in any other sense and unhealthy. It is evident that the strategic direction of one society's policy is based on a number of compromises that give society stability. This stability today is much more important than losing the opportunity to make partial steps at some point. Also, given that the SPS has given a significant part of the design, both rebalancing and structural measures in some things, giving up its solutions. I will make some proposals that could be useful for the 2013 budget. If we remember the recommendations of the Fiscal Council, we can only say that we now respect the essential objections that the council has made both this and the past year. The shortest they come down to is that long-term fiscal stabilisation, the avoidance of payment-sustaining crises are necessary for Serbia to start and resolute structural reforms. The set of laws that are here for consideration is the beginning of a painful journey that will eventually result in public finances that are the solution rather than the source of the problem, as so far. Serbia has some problems, we have not fallen from the sky, nor is it the only merit of the last government. It is purely politics for all the merits of today’s situation to prescribe to any organization, individual or foreigner. I think only problems can be solved by avoiding flat-rate grades or by searching for a scapegoat. Serbia's biggest problem is public debt. The debt is a problem, but Serbia is far from bankruptcy. Sometimes it seems to me that the theorists are wishing for disaster. Our debt is large because it is partly the result of deficit relief caused by the crisis. In implementing structural reforms, the deficit will gradually be reduced, and probably completely eliminated, and the debt as an estimate of the gross social product will likely begin to stagnate or decrease. Serbia is very far from participating in the GDP that some of the countries we look up to, and still the only amount of debt is what recommends and qualify us for membership in the euro zone. The latest funding line to support the budget shows that we are still far from the country no one will fund under reasonable conditions. No one seriously considers that relatively favourable funding lines can be obtained on the basis of anything other than the certainty that they will be returned. We must say that there is no brotherly love that will throw the money in the well. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System are a genuine systemic requirement which clearly defines public revenues, which are under one, taxes, under two contributions, under three non-tax revenues, which include fees, fees, penalties, use of public goods, under four self-dependences, under five donations and transfers, under six State incomes, which include selling assets and borrowing. Also, with this law, tax forms such as income tax, consumption, profit and property are clearly defined. We have to point out, when it comes to taxes, since it was the subject of the debate yesterday, but I have to point out that the final tax now highlights the price of the service provided by the state and can only be determined according to the cost of providing that same service. Taxes aren't the way to move as hard as they need to when they need to. Taxes can only be introduced by law now. There were the biggest problems for parafiscal space. The fees often had nothing to do with the cost of the state to provide services to be paid. The next logic that fiscal consolidation on the long-term requires respect for the interests of those who are filling the budget, new solutions provide for the abolition of republican and local taxis. There's no tax to be taxed on small businesses. A comfortable method of calculating tax tight interest is abolished, so now, even for tax-stricken interest, a free interest account is used, i.e., we have to say that there is no more famous interest on interest. Change of the Budgetary System Act is an important step, not only because it reduces the imposition of businesses and brings us closer to optimal tax burdens, but also in reducing costs of unnecessary and harmful administration. One of the major grudges of serious investors in Serbia has always been the lack of predictability in the sphere of our public finances, which has consistently deprived them of the possibilities of real and quality planning. The biggest gain is not measured in the money that the economy and citizens will now save, but in the time saved, avoiding pointlessly complex procedures for simple things, such as we have, for example, vehicle registration. Taxes that by their very nature are not, will become taxes. No more hiding. He's giving up dragon punishment for violations. It is important to understand that we do not have jobs in abundance and that punishment must be something that corresponds to the severity of the offense. Because when you punish the owner or the responsible person, you actually punish those who earn their wages in the same place. I must point out that during a public debate brought on Twitter, where the minister is also very often present, when, with a proposal to punish them by closing the shop, the minister accepted it as a good proposal and I thank him on this occasion. I would also point out what was the topic of both the past day and the previous agenda, which is that wages in the public sector and pensions will increase by 2% in October and 2% in April of the following year, and then grow in line with inflation, when we get to that green branch, in line with inflation and half of GDP growth. These salaries and pensions will become significantly less than inflation in the next year, which is expected to be at about 10%, i.e. there will be a significant real reduction in wages and pensions. This is the measure best denied by those who say there is no willingness for painful cuts. If 13th pensions are apostrophe, then it should be pointed out that these pensions are actually reduced in real terms, but also to protect the standard of those who have the least. Where other measures are taken to protect the standard, such as interventions on the market of basic products of life, measures aimed at neutralising the rise in prices of food products, a set of measures which make a wide range of products and services more accessible to vulnerable groups. The correct conclusion is that these measures will protect the level of standards of those who have the least. The same goes for public sector employees, with what I have already said about the protection of standards, and before there were no formal problems to reward the best, but there was a lack of will. So, a little reality and understanding for the most endangered is something that is necessary to our society, just like knowing that within a certain time, we all have to sacrifice ourselves in order for us to be in the middle, and especially in the long run, to be better. What might be a better measure after this first package is that instead of one ad hoc criteria the lowest pensions make a serious social map and identify the most endangered pensioners. It doesn't take much sense to realize that someone can have a minimum pension, and large assets and large total household incomes, while someone with a slightly larger pension can be in really big and unsustainable problems. These legal measures also foresee a much more rigorous relationship when it comes to the highest wages in the public sector. The mechanisms of rewarding those who are the best are being considered. There's a key to what needs to be done in the future. The public sector must have more logic in the private sector, when it comes to rewarding and when it comes to measuring results. I would point to two challenges on this occasion. The first challenge is - the VAT rate is increasing from 18% to 20%, and that is a measure much fairer than the demagogue emphasis that VAT should not be increased. VAT is introduced for taxpayers with a income of less than 50 million dinars per charge. This is basically a good measure, but we think it is necessary for it to be monitored by mechanisms that will prevent abuses through the combination of companies that pay for fees and companies that pay for the invoice. I'll give an example that if the company rents an invoice to the company per invoice, the company uses the refund immediately. The company never collects a fictitious invoice. It is therefore necessary to further address the problem of effective and rapid collection of claims as soon as possible, otherwise there will be problems with this measure. Secondly, a possibility has been introduced whereby certain categories of customers are given a refund of excise duty on oil derivatives. This is a challenging measure, because on the one hand it opens up a space for abuses if it is misimplemented, and on the other hand it allows to preserve the standard of citizens and neutralise the effects of rising prices of crude oil and dinar depression. This set of measures, fortunately, clearly speaks of the fact that it has finally avoided the destructive practice that fiscal problems are solved by trying to collect from that, from the economy, which is in poor shape and which is objectively not able to contribute more to the state's revenues. These measures begin to deal with reality, i.e. that companies and entrepreneurs can position themselves in both the gray and the regular sectors, and that the state should provide credible carrots and real beatings, i.e. Convinced that business in the gray sector would be an exception rather than a practice. There are many more things ahead of us that will help budget for 2013. Surely it can be saved on items whose intention is extremely general. Better use of state property is a good way, a more transparent and more efficient public procurement -- also a revision of certain rights -- as well. There are many opportunities for Serbia to become a more effective state than the president at the top, to the local community. I pointed that out not so long ago, and that is that without the persistent work on the middle and long term there will be no solution. No instant recipes for complex problems. If someone believes in such a thing, we as a state-run party, who is able to find a common language with almost all the actors on the political scene, we know it's not true. Some things are simply too complex, so they cannot be broken over their knees, and Serbia is preserved as a community and to be a state. So, there's still a problem. We're working on saving them. We'll move on. To end with a combination of recent history and a recent future. There's not a lot of maneuvering space to jump out of the direction we've plotted. What should be achieved is an ever-increasing quality of public finances, an ever-increasing division of responsibilities between the private and public sectors and a clear social consensus on important issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1869	Thank you. Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1870	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, we have an extremely important material ahead of us, probably the most important material to be found in front of this assembly this year, which is the budget rebalance for the current year. We've all been waiting for him for a long time. Since the beginning of this calendar year, when economic activities in the country have proved not to go as planned at the end of last year, and this has led to current revenues in the budget in this year becoming smaller than planned. Then there was some concern that occurred on all sides, both on the side of the opposition and on the side of the then government, which is a desire to create conditions as soon as possible to create a new budget that would respond to the situation in which we found ourselves. I must say, I was looking forward to this document, which I finally had a chance to see a few days ago. Looking at the document, unfortunately, I have to say that my general assessment – you better not have suggested such a document. I'm going to try to explain the attitudes that make me feel so bad about the document. When you explain, of course, I'm going to use some numbers, but I don't want to use numbers that create virtual reality and everything we've had to look at in the last month, month and a half on various grounds. First of all, I'd like to say that it's quite publicized and it's been published that at this point we have the largest historical deficit of 7.1%. I couldn't figure out what that deficit was, and then, Mr. Minister, I asked the question to determine how you got to that 7.1. You gave me an explanation that roughly consists of your estimate that by the end of this year, the deficit could be 235 billion at a consolidated level, that it's that 7.1 and that you're going to give a smaller deficit than that. Of course, I don't agree with your number and your determination, but if I tell you another number, then it'll be understood as my word against yours. As much as it's yours, it's as much mine. That's why I'm not going to use my own judgments, but I'm going to talk about what I'm talking about, about the evaluations of authorised official institutions, and that's the Fiscal Council that's mostly being positively talked about here, about his material, and also from your own side. So, a quote from the Fiscal Council, from the report, is the following -- the Fiscal Council estimates that the consolidated deficit of the state, without new government measures, could be around 216 billion dinars or 6.5% by the end of the year. So the Fiscal Council claims that if nothing is done, the deficit will be 216 and you've given us material in which you offer a deficit of 224. You better not have given it to me. With such material, not only does it not stop any trend and neither does it come out with some measures that will go towards the recovery of the economy, but this material, if adopted as it is, will lead to further deterioration of the situation. I think the deficit as a category is quite small, let me say, clear, so perhaps even a good number of MPs, and Serbia's citizens must be very vague, and that's why I tried to translate it into some figures that are clearer and more obvious. Those numbers are next. Let's forget about the revenue and look at the expenditures made by this government in the period until the end of the seventh month and look at the expenditures foreseen by this rebalance. The situation, gentlemen, is next. For the first seven months, expenditures amounted to 547 billion and some other change, which, when divided into seven months, gives something over 78 billion a month. On average, the previous government, which is said to have spent a lot of money, has spent 78 billion each month, as well as that pre-election campaign, which is said to have cost an disproportionate amount of money. You predicted that by the end of the year, according to this rebalancing, you would spend 1,033 billion. When you reject what's been spent in seven months from that total figure you're going to spend in five months of 486 billion. When you divide that number now by five, let's see how much the monthly cost, that monthly cost, or the expenditure that you predicted, is 97 billion and 200 million, so, certainly 20, slightly less, I'm talking round, but you're rebalancing to spend almost 20 billion more every month than what the previous government spent. Of course, this resulted in that, despite the certain measures you have taken on the side of income and which are painful for citizens, their effect is nothing. You have a situation that citizens will be obliged to pay the VAT which will be higher by 2%, and that the result is not revenues that will allow some other costs, so at least we stay at zero. They will be sacrificed, inflation will begin, and it will not have an effect on the reduction of the deficit or on the reduction of the debt. Also, here you have suggested a pay limit to 2%, which is one measure I expected to be made in the function of creating additional funds, which could reduce the debt or reduce the deficit. That didn't happen. What you have suggested is that on the income side, or on the side of the population, very serious efforts are being made and the population is being brought down, prices are increasing, and the result is the increase in deficits. In your presentation, as well as in the presentation of some parliamentary groups that I see very interesting that the whole thing is the continuity of something, so even the previous ones are guilty, you're also creating a virtual reality, where for what is today and for what you're proposing is the other one, and you see yourself as some positive in some future that is yet to come. What I told you clearly shows that in the next part of this year, therefore, not in the next year, your budget foresees significantly higher monthly expenditures than it had that budget that you criticised, this government that you criticised, as well as increasing public debt on average compared to what you could increase. What are the effects of this budget now? The first effect will be inflation. I am sorry to say that, what is proposed will go in the direction that additional income is provided through inflation and based on that depravation, and this goes on the burden of citizens, not on the burden of the state, or on the burden of restructuring and reform in the state sector, and will result in inflation causing these problems. Of course, there will be a drop in standard of living. Unfortunately, I estimate it will be bigger than its fall in difficult times of crisis. Finally, these weren't stopped negative tendencies, but they created the basis for going further in the direction of what we wanted to avoid. In the end, since I don't want to use it all the time, I want to get back to you a few more times, I want to point out one paradox. In fact, the paradox is that there seems to be a great unity around the proposal for this rebalancing, because everyone is unhappy with it. I see that the promoter is dissatisfied, I see that the positional parties in their discussions have also shown dissatisfaction, and of course, that dissatisfaction has been shown by opposition parties. If we're all unhappy, don't let one part of us be hypocritical, and the other one stay in its position and let's not vote it out, so we can come and make something that really represents a turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1871	Here you go, Minister Dinkich.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1872	The deficit of the Republic of Serbia would have been 235.4 billion, as you said, that we hadn't predicted - unless you think it was necessary to include all the wages for the railway in this budget, since you excluded the December salary and didn't plan it, unless you think it was necessary to include the salaries for coal mines of a billion and 700 million dinars, unless you think someone else was supposed to make up a billion dinars for the presidential elections that took place, unless you think that at least six billion out of nine billion dollars was the contractual obligation for the Fiat, unless you think it was necessary to give two billion dinars for salaries for the army that were spent for other purposes during the campaign, unless you think it was necessary to pay at least 120 euros per hectare of farmers in Serbia, unless you think it was necessary to secure the money for the execution of judgments that happened in your term of 12 months, which was not enough to pay off the plans for your plans to pay, unless your plans were paid by now. The only thing you didn't have to plan, and we were planning it further in this budget is so-called. 13 pensions for pensioners whose incomes are below 15,000 dinars. Two wars cost 4.2 billion dinars. We think it's a good measure, that payment started this week, and you didn't plan it. For those 4.2 billion dinars, I can tell you, if you'd made a budget, maybe you wouldn't have had to include it. If you had made this rebalancing, you'd have to include all these items, for the simple reason that if you hadn't included those items, those obligations that wouldn't have been paid, they would have come next year. It is true that the expenditures during the first seven months amounted to 547 billion dinars, as you said. But it's not true that they're now worth a billion and 33 million, because you compare two non-comparable categories. Total expenditure, according to the methodology when own revenues are not included, amounts to 940 million dinars, not a billion and 33 million. Secondly, the budget deficit in the first five months of this year was 80 billion dinars, and in the first seven months, until the new government was formed, 94 billion, which means the budget deficit has increased by an additional 80 billion in the last five months. So, for the same amount that was made in the first five months, but for the purposes I described, not for the pre-election campaign, but for the miners, for the farmers, for social protection, for the obligation of the contract to the Fiat. There is a difference in the quality of these funds and the funds invested in pre-election campaigns, because of this benefit those who are really threatened -- farmers who unfortunately were threatened this year just as pensioners who have received less than 15,000 dinars and unemployed who are thus allowed to receive a full amount of compensation. That's the whole truth where to round up that truth I should say that in the amount of 235 billion deficits, i.e. 7.1% of GDP, we didn't insert something the IMF believes should also add, which is 17 billion dinars for the capitalisation of three state banks made during the April month election campaign. Ten billion dinars for the new Agrobank, five billion dinars for the Vojvodina Development Bank from the Republic budget and two billion dinars for the Business Bank of Belgrade. If they added those 17 billion to this amount, which would result in a deficit, and without these measures applied by the new government, the total budget deficit would be as much as 252 billion. I know, you told the board that the state was broadcasting bonds, and she didn't give any money to those banks. I know that on the basis of these first-payment bonds, they start every six months and they're going to charge the budget in the coming years. I told you, the fact is that the IMF methodology is such that if that money, so it was through bonds, that banks that have losses, such as these three, it is treated as expenditure of the current year. Whether to be treated one way or another is a matter of some standard. The point is that money was given for the capitalisation of banks that made the losses, but the question is – why are these losses not prevented? What did the Ministry of Finance do with the then National Bank to carry out an adequate supervisory of bank work? Why the classification of credit to good banks for good customers is so strict, and so soft when it comes to new Agrobanks, the Business Bank of Belgrade and the Vojvodine Development Bank. It should be said that these are not the only three state banks that had a different archin in the controls and in the conduct of the finance ministry, but is also the Serbian Bank. There may be others, but I know about these four. Unfortunately, if you had at least helped these banks with that 17 billion dinar money, to remind you of adding another five billion, I apologize to four more billion to the Vojvodine Development Bank, to fully settle their losses, and to say that you have done a socially beneficial thing. Unfortunately, there remains a loss of another 200m euros in the new Agrobank. I mention in the new, because the old, or the first Agrobank, had 300m euros. With 100m euros in capitalisation, a loss of 300m cannot be covered. That's what anyone who doesn't know banking can do. Even the loss of Vojvodina Development Bank is not fully covered. The huge resources of taxpayers are thus spent for purposes that are not meaningful. Of course, everyone is responsible for that. I took the responsibility of the finance minister of the new government and the measures I proposed, along with my colleagues from the government, I am convinced that we are going to reverse this situation, which is truly disastrous in public finances. I believe in conversion, believe in change, and I am convinced that if this Parliament supports the new government's new policy, we will jointly succeed in making and changing and turning. I have to tell you, this is the last time I'm talking about your public finances policy, because I'm talking about the budget rebalancing that's your budget annex. The next time I am in this congregation, we will talk exclusively about the future, or what the new government is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1873	Thank you. The word is by MP Mirko Cvetkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1874	Thank you. Your Honor, I'm glad I had the chance to hear your statement on the banking sector that I didn't even mention. Okay, so do I when I don't have answers to specific questions I start choosing some other topics. The situation here is very simple. So you put it in my mouth that I said 235 billion. No, I said that you said 235 billion, that this number is entirely arbitrary, that I'm not going to give my number, I'm going to quote the Fiscal Council. I'll do it again for you and for others. The fiscal council estimates that the consolidated deficit of the state without new government measures could be around 216 billion dinars by the end of the year, or 6.5%. So that's what the fiscal council said. I simply told you that they said 216, and you suggested 222. So you'd better not suggest anything, it'll be easier for us, it'll be less of a deficit. That's it. You started to think it wasn't this, it wasn't that. Of course I'm not going into that trap to talk about the numbers, because then it's getting divorced. There's one thing I want to tell you that I think is useful. You mention salaries for the railroad, for the mines, etc. I figured out what made it such a big problem to reform the public sector. I never thought that you needed subsidies to pay someone's wages, but to help them achieve their wages in their work, as much as you can help them, sometimes more, sometimes less. If you think wages should be paid out of the budget and it's a rapper the amount of subsidies, then I don't see the point of why these people come to work. Let them sit at home, let them receive wages, and we're all calm.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1875	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1876	Give me the MP's group I have left.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1877	Use a replica. Replication time is two minutes. Thank you. The word has Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1878	I don't want to go wrong with what you said. I think there's enough time for you to, if you think it's the wrong policy towards the Resavica mine or the Railways, to do it. What I'm saying is, regarding the evaluation of the fiscal council, it's important to know, the fiscal council when assessing what a budget deficit would have been didn't take into account all these things that weren't included in the original budget, which by law have to pay off. He couldn't have known all the unemployment benefits weren't planned. He couldn't have known they weren't planning funds for Fiat. They objected to why these funds are in one column, and it is not separated what is for Fiat and what is for other programs. They couldn't have known all the funds for the presidential election weren't planned. When all government obligations are added that have to be paid, that comes up to 235 billion. The fiscal council noticed that, they could add, depending on accounting standards, and these 17 billion for the capitalization of these three state banks. So, in any case, the Fiscal Council gave the account based on the deficit, assuming that you calculated all these expenditures that weren't calculated.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1879	The word is Mirko Cvetkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1880	I didn't realize this was for me, but for the fiscal council. So you're saying he didn't do this, he didn't do it. I suggest you talk to them and maybe we'll change this report. As long as this report is like this, it's official to me and based on the official report, again, I say it's better based on the Fiscal Council that you haven't done anything, than you've put this rebalance proposal ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1881	The word has Gjorge Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1882	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer briefly to these proposed amendments to the Budget Law and to the budgetary system. In recent times, we have heard a lot about the deficit in nominal terms, and it is very convenient for demagogue discussions and controversy if it is viewed for itself, but in my view it is more a reflection of the overall economic situation, as well as an instrument of economic policy that can use both the budget and the budget deficit to speed up growth, which is beyond what Serbia needs. As everyone is well-known, and most Serbian citizens, we are now increasingly facing, not only recession, but depression. We have not only heard reasons here about the budget and the budget system, but also some drafts of future economic policy, which we will be able to analyse in the term of office of this government. When we analyse the budget and the budget system, we can also figure out what the central government's attitude towards lower levels of government is, as well as analyse the overall organisation of the social system. We've heard here on many occasions that agriculture is recognized as a great opportunity. I'm glad, especially for those of us who come from Vojvodina. We are also pleased that the increased expenditure on agriculture, given the drought and everything else, but it is worrying that one of the first measures of the government, which was adopted in this mandate, has just been a ban on exporting certain agricultural products which, for some reason unknown to me, have been declared strategic, which may be aimed at making these agricultural products cheaper. Of course, the following will happen, that over the back of farmers, particularly in Vojvodina, where these cultures are grown and grown, the price will fall and the buyers will make the only profit, because these same products will be carried out when the ban is removed. On the one hand, we have some positive indications that agriculture will finally be something that will develop, and on the other hand, specifically from the Ministry of Trade, we have a proposal that is exactly the opposite of what is being achieved here by the current draft budget. We are also pleased that projects such as Bor and Zastava are supported here, which are extremely positive, but we do not see large development projects like these in Vojvodina. In particular, I come from a local self-government whose economy could be compared to the economy, let's say, Chernobyl, because there's nothing left to function there. We used to have a sugar factory, a valve factory, a Mitros which was one of the larger slaughterhouses and a PIC "Syrmium", all of which were large exporters and manufacturers, and today nothing works anymore. The reasons for the collapse of these major economic systems are more, in my opinion, related to some 1990s, when privatisation rights were implemented, when the substance of these companies was destroyed. Today, you local self-government have people sitting around and the only thing they can do about solving these problems is to pick up the thresholds in Belgrade and beg the ministers for some help. Whether these assets can be put into some function of economic development today is a big question, but something that this and many other governments will have to deal with. We are now far from the possibility that, as some other countries, we have large food conglomerates, by the example of, say, Nestle or Podravka, which is in the neighbourhood, which are not only large exporters and businesses that employ a large number of people, but are also able to buy shares on some markets and invest their savings. There is no such possibility with us, because our stock market doesn't work. Today we hear that everyone has become great experts in the banking system. The problems in the banking sector are multiple, but they are related to what is happening in the real sector. You today have banks that have a huge toxic activity in their balance sheets, which in other countries governments have successfully taken out into special entities and unblocked an economy that not only isn't able to, but is sub-capitalized, so to speak. I have already mentioned that we also have a regressive tax system, which imposes the highest tax rates precisely on those who have the least, because in Serbia the lower the tax rate, the less you earn, the higher it is, so I don't see how a public finance system can be put into order when someone who earns 10,000 dinars pays more percent than the one who earns tens of thousands of euros. We have suggested on several occasions that, let's say, we look at the experiences of some other countries, so that citizens are allowed the interest paid on the basis of credit to be a deductible item for paying taxes on the income of citizens and some other taxes, such as the possibility in other countries. You also have a tax-related theme and contributions. An extremely unfavourable tax and income accounting regime leads to the fact that the vast majority of people in this country have just been reported for minimum income. Several MPs, and I think the professional public has also tried to influence the past and this government to tax and contribute to a reduction, as this would expand the base, thus increasing revenues, but this has not occurred. All of these are some of the topics which, in the overall analysis of the economic situation, I think, are possible in order to bring the public finance system into order, but what is particularly controversial to us, it is a system of subsidies that is not regulated by a special law. Subsidies should be divided on the basis of some criteria, i.e. that there is an accurate and clear analysis of who, why and how subsidies are distributed. By regional character, by the type that the ministry knows whether it invests in certain industries, for which purpose, for a reason, etc. For now, it is done fairly arbitraryly and arbitrarily, and I see that in this draft budget it even amounts to subsidies and increases. Also, what is controversial for us in this proposal is the continued subsidisation of "Serbiagas", for reasons not because the problem in JP "Srbigas", but because we pay a higher price of gas paid by some other countries that do not have such arrangements, which are talked about praises. We are also witnessing that we have donated literally NIS, that there is no southern one, and that we are paying more gas per tonne than, say, Germany or Italy, which did not give their oil industries to the Russians. I think that a billion euros or more, a year as it stands out for subsidising also large non-payments, because it's not that citizens don't pay for gas, but it's not that big fallen giants that are still subsidized today, and this is one of the ways they subsidize, so it's a system problem that would have to be solved, otherwise there's going to be a hole in the budget constantly. Serbia's general gasification is not something recently discovered. In the '50s and '60s, people had a dilemma about whether to start more intense gasification or more to develop the domestic energy sector. But with the import of gauze so much payment-bilance, we're in a negative position with regard to the Russian Federation, then the Soviet Union, that there is no kind of goods or services that we can perform that would lead to a reduction in the trade deficit. And if this continues at this rate that's happening now, we will only have for certain that we will be in debt slavery to the Russian Federation, which may be for some and for the purpose of, specifically, those who have been advocates of that gas arrangement. The last big question, but which is definitely the most important for us, is the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, which refers to the transfer funds according to the AP Vojvodina. For us first and foremost, this proposal is unconstitutional because it does not comply with Article 184. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says -- the AP Vojvodina budget must be at least 7% of the republican budget. Such a proposal to consider tax revenues alone, the base has been reduced and amounts to about 700 billion instead of a thousand and 18 billion total budgets. I don't see a single member in the Constitution saying that 7% refers to tax revenues, or tax expenditures, but refers to the total budget. We in Vojvodina every time, and not just us from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, but from other parties, whenever it comes to the budget, the budget rebalancing, it turns out that we have to ask, to beg, as if we're playing a poker game, so now we're wrong, whether it's the transfer funds, whether there's funds for capital investments, what goes into those 7%. In our opinion, this is not how we should treat something clearly defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In terms of this, the position of our parliamentary group is such that as long as there is no law on funding the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which is also specified in the Constitution, we will not vote for this budget rebalance, nor for the next budgets, which the government will propose. It is no longer our idea to ask anyone to interpret freely and freely to us what is clearly defined in the Constitution and that we now respect this Constitution more, given that in the territory of the AP Vojvodina in the end, he did not even get a majority. We cannot vote for this proposal, regardless of the fact that some of the elements of this law and the bill are positive. In particular, in terms of agricultural segregation, etc. We think that in general for us, at least for MPs who come from Vojvodina is not something we should accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1883	The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1884	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the rebalancing of this budget is, in fact, the continuation of that debate we had during yesterday. Now I was in a rather interesting situation to listen to the discussion between the former Prime Minister and the former finance minister and the current finance minister. One big question I really have to ask in front of this assembly, which is, is it true that there really wasn't enough compensation in the draft budget law for the unemployed? Is it true he doesn't have 12 wages for the railroad? Is it true that a billion and 700 million dinars are missing for miners in Resavica, which is a mine with underground exploitation? Is it true that a billion dinars are missing to hold elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia? Is it true that there are four billion missing for interest payments? Is it true that there are two billion missing for payment of court sentences? Is it true that there are two billion missing in the name of an army salary? Only half of this is true, someone cheated on the MPs who supported the original version of the budget. If it's true, he also cheated on all the budget users. And if it is true, and worst of all, the citizens of Serbia have been deceived. This rebalance will be the first rebalancing, the first budget I'm going to vote for, and it's one of the worst I've ever seen. And I'm not going to vote just because, as some say, because of the loyalty of foreigners, the parliamentary group, etc., I think this budget rebalance is our current reality. In various discussions, I have listened to everything, and you have received all your colleagues from this government the degree of implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget for the first six months. Well, it's moving within a range of about 42%, 43% of the revenue side, and the country's most convincingly executed borrowing is 80.2%. So if we were to bring it down to 50% as much as it should be in the first six months, the whole execution would be 40 percent, all in the original version of the budget, of the one we're changing now. It was made on the basis of incorrect and deliberately incorrect estimates of the revenue side of the budget. I said, I understand that someone might have tried to trick the MPs, which someone tried to trick the IMF, but I can't believe that someone for politics, for election sakes, is playing with people's lives and fates. When you look at, besides public spending, one thing that gets the most eyelashes again is that capital investments are only 37% invested. We've been borrowing the state, and you know it yourself, and so it says in the budget, that debt can only be due to public policy implementation, and public policy is investment through a national investment plan, that execution is only 37%. So much has been approved by the Prime Minister and the finance minister. We can't go back in time. The money that's been spent we can return the drinks to the banks, but to return it to our property, that's not it. That's why we have one of these budget rebalances now. I was at a meeting and the Finance Committee when we discussed the views of this famous body of ours and the Fiscal Council and its biggest regrets were why people don't get fired from work for saving. You know, when someone has a secure job and knows they can't lose it, they can talk about it, and we're talking about living people who have their families, their children, and it's times of crisis, and it's hard to find work in the real sector. That is why a compromise solution may have been made, to finally limit public sector employees' salaries. No one can convince me that the president of the state receives a little over 100,000 dinars, the government minister receives over 100,000 dinars, the Prime Minister over 100,000 dinars, and various advisers at 350 and 400, so he can't. Again for the purpose of not losing a job, the own revenues of various administrations, agencies and other state authorities, and there are not exactly what many want to say – someone is taking something away from them, but they are entrusted with public authority, and based on these public powers, they become an integral part of the budget, precisely to avoid such disproportionateities. The second objection of the Fiscal Council is subsidies, namely subsidies for the economy and subsidies for agriculture. It may be in the work of living in another world, in another time, in another country, but when a taxpayer is struggling not to pay taxes but to survive, then it is only natural for the state to try to give certain incentives to both businesses and agriculture. One of the regrets was, when the original version of the budget was brought – why, with one such economy as we have, with an environment as we have, with a global economic crisis, with a crisis in the European monetary union, our country abolishes the subsidized loans. Because of this suspension of the subsidized loans, we have a 40% execution in the first six months. Because we had to force the economy to raise commercial loans that were expensive, so they cut workers down on spending to survive on the market. It is natural for the state to intervene in this current situation by subsidising credits to run economic flows, to encourage certain and production and consumption, and thus to fill our budget from real sources. When it comes to agriculture, I don't think there's much to talk about. She seems to me to be the most neglected of all years. Everyone was somehow relying on the vitality of our agricultural producers and on their loyalty to this property, so there will always be some cultures, some investments, etc. Today, after this drought, which was, if we don't have a subsidy in agriculture, if we don't pay what the state owes now and not next year, our farmer, our farmer, will not have the means to start a new production cycle, and you yourself know how much our agricultural products participate in both gross domestic product and exports. That is why I believe that this budget, however bad it is, but not because of the government's merit, but because it has been inherited and huge funds have been spent, and yet, at least partially corrected all the mistakes that the previous government rules have also made, should have the support to prepare for the next budget for 2013, which I hope will be a completely different story from this rebalancing we have, so the SNS in the voting day will support this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1885	Thank you. Now we're going to switch to the list of registered speakers. The first in a row is Riza Halimi. He's not there. Next is Alexandra Jerkov. Here you go. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1886	Thank you. I just had to move the card. First of all, we wanted to point out that you believe that by putting yourself together, in fact the President of the Assembly, not you personally, by putting on the agenda of the Budgetary System Act, you violated Article 85(2). The Rules of Procedure, which prohibits the President of the National Assembly from including on the agenda a proposal for an act which is not prepared in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Our request goes exactly in the direction that the amendment and supplement laws of the Budgetary System Act are removed from the agenda, and unless you do so, I consider it for obvious reasons that you will not do so. Be absolutely certain that we will appeal to the Constitutional Court and to an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of this act, because we are deeply convinced that it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, Article 5, as it is likely to be amended after adoption in this Assembly, paragraph 4, will be defined if individual incomes and incomes, expenditures and expenditures, as well as the budget of local authorities are determined relatively, as a percentage of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, their amount and height will be determined by applying as the basis for expenditure financed from tax revenues. In other words, the budget of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina will now be 7% of the tax revenues. This is in direct contrast with the Constitution, which says very clearly that the Autonomous Region budget is 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Tax revenues are not the budget of the Republic of Serbia and until the Republic of Serbia is able to secure the original incomes of AP Vojvodina, it will have to provide those 7% alone. At the time when you are autonomous to the province that it has original incomes, be assured that it will earn much more than 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget and that it will not be necessary in this humiliating way to give it these 7%, since you are not even able to provide 7%. We've always had a dilemma as to how those 7% count. I belonged to that group of MPs who felt that it was not at all important that the Vojvodina bequeathed 6.9 or 7.1%, since it was the principle that Vojvodina itself provides multiple amounts of money pouring into the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, you have finally put an end to this debate once before, until this law is changed, you said it would be less than 7% each year. I hope that the Constitutional Court will react at the same rate as it reacts when the provisions of the Statute are to be declared unconstitutional and that it will protect the constitutional rights of the citizens of Vojvodina, to protect constitutionality and legality and to insist that the laws adopted in this Assembly must comply with the Constitution. I believe the government of the AP Vojvodina will answer on this subject as well. This time you'll have to talk to her, there won't be a way to ignore it like you ignored when you were preparing budget rebalances, which is, after all, seen from the proposal where the people of Vojvodina really don't see the place for themselves. Not for your own purposes, not for your own interests. When we talk about budget rebalancing, we see that Mr Dinkic only reduces the deficit in this budget according to his arbitrary account. According to his estimates, the deficit in the budget would be 235.4 billion by the end of the year, while the official fiscal council's report says that the deficit would be 216 billion, which of course dramatically changes the situation because Mr Dinkic's calculation reduces the deficit, and according to the Fiscal Council, Mr Dinkic is increasing the deficit by this rebalancing. However, this would not be the first time Mr Dinkic has absolutely ignored the recommendations and opinions of the Fiscal Council. I think that everyone who was MPs in the last meeting remembers the live debate between Mr Dinkic and the Fiscal Council, when we adopted the Law on the financing of local self-government, where Mr Dinkic called members of the Fiscal Council ignorants who were wrong, etc. So another logical change in the Budgetary System Act should actually be the abolition of the Fiscal Council, unless we respect their opinion, unless we respect their recommendations. There is really no point, no need to humiliate these people in this way, and that, in the end, Serbian citizens are funding an institution, which is obviously not going to serve anything. The fiscal council in its recommendations finds, among other things, that the deficit that exists in the Republic of Serbia's budget is a systemic deficit and that it can be reduced by reducing public spending. We don't have that. Instead, we have an increase in consumption, given that 20 billion dinar savings are being made, but spending is increasing by 25 billion dinars, so, in addition to the cosmetic changes in Mr Dinkic's moral attitude and control of public finances, we have not received a fundamental solution for all the problems in all these three days. Thank you for letting me talk over time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1887	The next speaker is MP Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1888	New Serbia will vote for budget rebalancing because it is very important that we maintain macroeconomic stability and, more importantly, Serbia does not go bankrupt. The measures proposed are not popular, but were necessary for two reasons – for saving and for financial discipline. That's quite clear. We believe in the honesty of this government that faced a large number of inherited problems. Serbian citizens know very well that the money in the budget in the first five months has been spent irrationally, and then expenditures have been artificially reduced in June and July, so the state did not pay anything during the formation of the government. Of course, that is why the newly formed government has waited for a huge account, it is true and it is told to Serbian citizens. The government also acknowledged that the rebalance does not reduce the deficit, but in the 2013 budget it will predict a 7% deficit reduction to 3.5%. Apparently, by assembling this rebalancing, the government was ahead of two dilemmas: either to make savings, or to keep the agreed commitments of the previous government from paying. It was meant to go before Serbian citizens, which is what this government did and why we are particularly looking forward to, and said that the previous government budget for 2012 did not foresee the payment of all 12 unemployment benefits but only seven. Of course, because of the savings and deficit cuts, the government couldn't afford to pay the remaining five fees. We also agree that farmers after an unremembered drought could not have been paid subsidies and that workers in the railways in Resavica could not have been paid. It is clear that this would be irresponsible to Serbian citizens and that Serbian citizens could not bear such a kind of sacrifice. I think it is necessary to accept the reality that Serbia is in today, in order to re-examine existing subsidies to reduce the standard of citizens, makes it difficult anyway to deal with the difficult situation of farmers, pensioners, users of monthly unemployment benefits. In previous discussions, we heard, above all from the opposition, that subsidies should not be paid to workers who work and that they could in that case sit at home and not come to work and do anything. Of course, the government of the Republic of Serbia is aware that subsidies are not paid but that at this point the fallen economies and the fallen financial situation cannot be done. New Serbia expects the proposed legislative solutions that the government has sent to parliament for adoption to produce concrete results in the coming period. In particular, the draft budget system law will introduce order in the introduction of taxis and fees. The presidents of the municipalities complain about the suspension of taxis, but I expect, as said here primarily by Minister Dinkic, to take into account concrete proposals from municipalities and that the government of the Republic of Serbia will consider their demands in particular. The maximum wage law will allow for the reduction of profits in agencies and public enterprises, which we also consider necessary. Changes in tax laws will bring about the necessary increase in income. This set of laws also regulates the system of budget users with their own incomes. These 138 parafiscal charges have been abolished, 300,000 companies will not pay the company and all of these are positive shifts and proposals we expect to produce concrete results in the coming period. It is true that the rebalancing from 6.5% is increased to 6.7% and that this increase is not large, but these important structural measures have been taken to permanently reduce the deficit. Often in parliament today, MPs quote the Fiscal Council, which says that two of the three pillars of fiscal consolidation are set up – taxes and control of salaries and pensions, but also that a third is necessary – public expenditure reform. It was announced the following year that exactly what it covers. When it comes to subsidies – extra employees, pension system, state guarantees and when we can expect its first results. Also, the budget rebalance debate said that by the end of the year it takes over two billion euros to finance the public debt deficit, and that four billion is required for next year. The public is clear that part of the deficit will be financed from the Russian loan, but I believe that representatives of the government should clearly say that the remaining deficit will be financed, whether an arrangement with the IMF will be concluded. I think that, with the budget rebalancing debate, the two information is very important. That is what outside of this parliament has been discussed by the government's representatives, but I think it is very clear that we should say here today in parliament. Therefore, the main criticism of the proposed budget rebalancing is due to the increase in expenditure and the criticism of acceptances and the resolution ministry and governments in general, but the Rebalance proposal shows that this is a temporary increase and that important structural reforms that are ahead of us today and which will affect their reduction have been made. So, the New Serbia parliamentary group will vote for the proposed rebalance, but in the 2013 draft budget, we expect full fiscal consolidation because the 2013 budget and its proposal will be absolute and the only responsibility of the government. We think he'll be one big test for this government, and he's facing a challenge that she'll rightly resist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1889	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1890	Dear Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another proof that we were right when we insisted that all these measures discussed in parliament for the last two days, and in particular this budget rebalance and the accompanying laws before this parliament must defend the Prime Minister as an expression of political power or political authority both in the ruling coalition and in the government itself. Meanwhile, there is no minister in the hall, there is Mrs Kalanovic, and thus we bring her into a rather awkward situation that she has to defend the budget rebalancing for which Minister Dinkic said just before leaving this parliament – I have made a budget, I take every responsibility for him. Of course, he meant, first of all, political. This is not a question of opposition parties' spite, or the drive to the end of the LDP, nor the insistence only that this parliament must be respected. Many before this prime minister or finance minister have destroyed any integrity of parliament with their behaviour. It is only because we would not come to this situation, which we just had in the debate between the former Prime Minister and Finance Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, and the current finance minister, former economy minister, before the governor of the National Bank, Mladjan Dinkic. So, in a few months' time, we don't get into a situation where we still have that sentence, Mr Dinkic - I made the budget, I take responsibility for it, and everyone else who was in that government, and above all its prime minister, and above all the biggest political party in that government, which is SNS, out of everything, and they said that they didn't know there was cheating on the budgets, that the salaries were misplanned or programmed, that there was fraud in other places and that in the end nobody was responsible for the collapse of this kind of budget, and the budget for next year won't even be able to be prepared on those grounds that Mr Dinkic put very optimisticly here. The debate that's been going on all day proves it. What the SPS lawmakers spoke of, what the authorised SNS representative spoke of, are deeply contrary to many elements and key elements of this rebalancing, especially the optimistic reform plan announced by Minister Dinkic for the 2013 budget. These political assessments, or political views, rule out each other. So, Mr Dinkic very clearly announced a radical cut in the budget deficit next year. This six-and-a-half-percent reduction, not to bid as much as the deficit and 4% or 3.5% of what its optimistic announcement is, is almost a billion euros, slightly less than that. Such a change is not possible in two months, and it is not possible, in particular, without the general political will or general agreement that Serbia is going into really harsh radical reforms, cuts, the modernisation of the country and the abandonment of all these principles that are being discussed here today in the debate of the ruling coalition, which they spoke of in the same way almost nine months ago when this budget was adopted even though at that time they knew that it would end up this way. I reminded Minister Dinkic a few days ago, at a session of the Committee on Finance of this Parliament, that he was already preparing for the elections at the end of December in this assembly, and as he spoke about the 2012 budget, he was speaking about how almost all parties of the new ruling coalition speak today, that this is necessarily evil, that the budget is full of problems, that it probably will not be fully realised, that it does not matter how much public debt is at the moment and that he is probably not realistically shown, but that he will certainly exceed 50% in this year, but that it must be adopted as a transitional solution. We adopted him, you adopted him, to be precise, that transitional solution, and today we came to this situation that you're talking about. Which is why it is also important for the LDP to be such a problem that the Prime Minister has never entered this House for three days to discuss such important issues. During that time, the Serbian Prime Minister, as he usually does, was very eloquent in meeting with journalists, very funny and resourceful when he was to refer the indictment or the poison arrow or the apron to both the IMF and the Fiscal Council, and to those for whom he was one of the best students in the history of the Faculty of Political Sciences, as he usually says, who he considers to be members or supporters of the neo-oliberal concept, whatever that means. I will read just one of Mr Dacic's statements a few days ago – I will call on the Fiscal Council to explain to the cameras what it means that they are not satisfied with the budget's rebalance, I would ask the Fiscal Council and the IMF whether it is normal, I do not think I am listening to the propaganda of a neo-oliberal concept that has failed everywhere in the world. So, the country's prime minister also accuses the IMF, which is less important, but also the fiscal council of the country, as its official body, official body and political parties in this country to advocate the country's collapse. At the same time, Minister Dinkic said that he read the Fiscal Council's report carefully all night long, if I quote correctly, that he had revised his opinion about how it used to be spoken and that he accepted the findings found in this 58-page document. I do not understand how you will prepare the 2013 budget in which the Prime Minister is against the findings of the Fiscal Council and the IMF, and the finance minister is for these finds and is ready to implement all those reforms required in it. That's why we've told you several times in these three days that you're alone and you're on the wind, and it's obvious that other parties in the ruling coalition want to have as little to do with this project as possible politically. Despite an offensive opinion, it's popular to say that the budget is just an economy or a matter of numbers, it's absolutely not true. The budget is, first of all, a political act. You decide with your budget what you will, as much as with dynamics and from whom you will take and what you will give to someone else, what you will invest. It's obviously a political decision. So that's why we're going to the election, with plans we're going to the election, with some promises to people and with, at least that's how it should be, with a very clear plan of what we're going to do. Mr Dinkic said at one point that he was for a twist, I think he repeated it twice and the LDP is for a twist, we've been talking about it for a year, and the difference between us and you is that a year ago, before the election, we made it very clear what we should do in this country to make that turn happen. You didn't do it. You were in the election campaign shouting Neet IMF, you didn't mention raising the value added tax rate, you didn't mention cutting subsidies, you didn't mention cutting public consumption. That's how you tricked the citizens. We risked going to the elections with a platform that says very clearly that Serbia needs to amend the Labour Law and introduce more flexible employment rules and, above all, lay off workers. The same was repeated by Mr Dinkic this morning in the debate, only he did not say that a year ago, when, as today, not only political parties sought, but mainly the logic of economic life, examples of other countries, foreign investors' and investors' advice in Serbia, etc. Maybe it was smarter, maybe it was fairer to sacrifice 1% or 2% in the election, I don't mean the URS, because it would have been disastrous if he'd risked 1% in the election, but I mean these parties that won more votes, which today boast that they won more votes, and then come to this parliament, drop their heads and say in half that the situation is like that, and we have to save and we can't live in the clouds. You were in the same clouds a year ago when you made this budget. So we live in a country where it's perfectly normal to discuss whether there are 11 or 12 salaries in the railway workers' budget. Do you understand how insane that is? On the side of the scandal that the former Prime Minister doesn't know that the salaries were foreseen in the 2012 budget and it's also scandalous, which I was saying earlier, that all the ministers in the government, including the ministers from the U.S.S., are saying that they didn't know there was money missing in the various budget sections. Mrs. Kalanovic, you were a minister in the government, you know perfectly well that it is absolutely impossible, that the ministries involved, that the Ministry of Economy run by your party, had absolutely had to know that there was not enough money for a job with the "Fiita", that all other ministries had to know that. When 11 salaries were scheduled for the Serbian Railways, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic had to know. For years they've been dealing with it, it's clear from numbers at first sight that that money is missing. And you all knew that, and you all faked yourself at the end of December last year. Speaking of which, meanwhile, Minister Dinkic accepted a vast majority of the fiscal council's findings, let's be fair to the end. The fiscal council says the concept of fiscal consolidation is being implemented through three types of reforms and the most important one has lagged in this rebalancing. You say you'll have that most important one in a month. So in a month, you'll be able to do what hasn't been done, and that means pension reform, so that, above all, it makes it difficult to retire early, a sustainable system of fiscal decentralisation, to improve the system and significantly reduce the level of state subsidies, to limit the amount of state guarantees, etc. That's five or six things the LDP has been telling you about for five years in this House. You didn't do any of that. Mr Dinkic said a few days ago that he would make savings by practically abolishing all subsidies, except for those that are not productive and those that are not for agriculture. Then two days ago, at a meeting of the Finance Committee, he said it would not be abolished, but also a significant reduction in the subsidy for railways, road subsidies, subsidies, or grants, as it is called in the budget, for the National Employment Service. What, then, will be the result of budget savings for the next year on the bulky side? When we talk about guarantees, we've been telling you for years that you can't be in charge that way. For years, we've been telling you that "Serbigas" cannot survive on these grounds. It sells gas at a price lower than the import price of gas. So we went further into a political explanation of why such a situation is. Why do we have an unfavourable gas arrangement, or arrangement with Gazprom about the price of gas, which is why we have an intermediary in this business? Why are we in a position to make Serbia's practically 200m euros in losses every year? How will this problem be resolved in the end? How are you going to solve this problem in the next month until the new budget is proposed, and at the same time you choose exactly the same way, that is, the directors of public enterprises? You tried to do wonders in public by advocating the Law on the Limitation of Highest Profits in the Public Sector. This is, in fact, the key proof that you are conducting a serious reform, or savings on the public side, on the side of expenditure. It's media attractive always, but if you look a little further than your commercial, you'll see that in the Rebalance proposal you don't even have the quantification of how much money you're going to save. Minister Dinkic said a shocking thing a few days ago that and because the government doesn't actually have a concrete and detailed list of all these salaries, or their height, although the founder, or owner, is actually in the whole sector, and then you put such holes into the law that no one will ultimately be limited to profit or not be limited to those sectors where the public is most sensitive and where possible abuses are the biggest in public enterprises. What does the idea of the law even mean that for those who are good at work, there will be no limit to them? Is there a good CEO in the company who, for example, is a monopoliest and a real profit or one who takes over a company in huge debt and reduces those debts? What's a rapper for you? In the end, you'll get the directors and the jag for successful businesses and you won't be able to find anyone, as you can most of all find for those companies that are in huge debt. That's why there's no reform in this. I don't want to mention other things. Minister Dinkic has this tendency. He apparently estimates that it brings him political benefits, to always lift him above that 5% limit, but then he remembers some ministry that made a mistake in the last term, so somehow it's always the DS ministry, there's no other ones. Now I've listed some other ministries without any ambition to defend the DS. On these grounds on which you are criticizing them today, we criticized them from the opposition while you were in the government. But you have the position of the MUP in this rebalancing, and that's what the Fiscal Council says, under the term "social donations" of seven billion dinars. That's tossing out the mockery of the principle that wages can grow 2% in the public sector, because then you move to the social rate and pay seven billion dinars. Then all other ministries will try to find the same way out of this situation. In the end, your rebalancing will fall apart before you can propose a budget for 2013. Not to mention some other very problematic systems, subsidies, donations. When did we decide to grow up as a national brand of that National Employment Service? You know very well, with all due respect to some very professional and capable people who work there, that this service is mostly filled with party personnel who could never find a job in the open market, and especially not in this economic situation in Serbia. You today have 34 branches, 120 outposts, over 12 billion dinars from this budget donation to that system. At the same time, you in this country have private companies helping people find a job. Why aren't they being helped? Why doesn't the market open, so whoever's more capable will be able to get a job for more people and use a name and some of them? No, you're putting money into a system that only spends a year on donations of more than 12 billion dinars, which has huge spending on buildings, buildings, specialized services. That money goes beyond the money you get by increasing the value added tax rate. Mr Dinkic says - this is an annex to the existing budget. It is an annex, but in the sense that the annexes in Serbia are mainly to add a little cost, so now this annex has increased budget spending, or deficit, by more than five billion dinars. We're not optimistic and no one in this room, I believe, is a malicious man. No one wants a script - the worse, the better, but the experience we have had in previous years, the expressions of the faces we see both in public life and in this debate here assure us that neither you are optimistic and that you are not even sure that your party will be in a position to propose a budget law for 2013, especially if you intend to propose it on these grounds. For that matter, with this amount of pulsism and demagogy, there is no readiness among your coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1891	Thank you. Just to let you know, you've been wasting your time with your MPs. Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1892	The Honorable Chairman, I now understand from what the MP put forward that he did not understand the meaning of what I said. So, the point is that it's not about whether anyone knows that wages are not budgeted, budgeted, etc., but it's about principle, and the principle is -- if you want to make a reform in a company, while you're making a budget for it by providing him with 100% of the amount of pay, then there's nothing from that reform. That's why we had a different principle, and that principle is that this company is only beginning to find certain reserves and providing itself with salaries, and that the budget helps him in some percentage that he thinks is enough over the year and that it is a decreasing amount from year to year. In that area, I rebelled against the commitment of salaries to the budget, because it would turn out that salaries are received by simply paying for public enterprises, which is not, if you will, a formal case. I thought that was an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1893	Thank you. The word is Snezana Stojanović Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1894	Replication to your exposure. I just have a replica of that part, and I've already announced that I'm going to talk about it, and that's -- did we know if we didn't know if we were building on all the previous governments, etc? I must remind myself that Minister Dinkic could not have known how to create a budget for either the Ministry of Economy, any other ministry, because, if you remember, some other MPs reminded us yesterday, Minister Dinkic was expelled from the government in March 2011, and in no way could he participate in the creation of the 2012 budget. Why is Minister Dinkic expelled from the government? It was precisely because he had objections to the financial part of the government and to the government's leadership, to co-ordination of work in the government. So then the charges against Minister Dinkic were that he was not a team player, that he was not working well with other ministers in the government, that he was not obedient enough and that is why he was expelled from the government, which we all learned from the media. So it is a completely incorrect observation that Minister Dinkic participated, that he was in the process all along, that he was in the government and that he now remembered that he was criticising the government. No, he criticized that government while he was in that government and that's why he was expelled from the government. You will ask – why did the party stay in government? I will remind you that it was a time when Serbia expected EU candidacy and that was the only reason and we made it clear at the time why we do not want to put the country in such an unstable situation and put that possibility at risk. That was the only reason we stayed in that government. The economy minister in the government was not from our party, the economy minister in the government was Nebojsa Ciric... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and that is the risk you take when you appoint experts to do some responsible and politically responsible functions. Yeah, he's not from our party.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1895	Mr. Andric, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1896	Thank you. I think you should really warn the Members of Parliament about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is an insult to dignity. It doesn't matter if Minister Dinkic was a minister then or not. Mrs. Kalanovic was the vice-president of the government's economy. If she couldn't, she could've told me, I would've told Minister Dinkic, then a fellow MP, what evil in the budget was going on and wouldn't have voted against. We, even though we didn't have a single minister, failed to cheat, this evil DS and forced us to support that budget. It's just that I think it's important that when spoken here, if spoken in a serious way, it's really done for the citizens and for the results and consequences of that speech. So I think it's an insult to the Assembly to deny the past, instead of taking some kind of responsibility. You've now formed a government, this is no longer a pre-election campaign. You don't need to justify yourself, but don't really insult any of us's intelligence, that the vice president in charge of the economy didn't know that, because it's an argument against this same person being a minister today in that government. If she didn't know it then, then what is she running for office today? I simply ask you to keep some elements of logic, however, as minimally possible, in these discussions, because it is the only way that we do not waste more time on these things that are less important than talking about things that are more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1897	I only ask that in the future, if you report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, indicate which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. (John Adriæ from the post: Article 106, dignity. Thank you. Bojan Djuric first responded to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1898	In fact, I now have two replicas, and within the same term I will try to respond to Mr Cvetkovic and Mrs Plasic. I was just talking about loyalty, and this is what I meant. How unfair you have now been to Mr. Ciric, whom you have brought to the ministry, urging him to do a very difficult job, which I do not think he has done badly in the current circumstances, and today, after a few months, you say you have nothing to do with this man in any way. I'm sorry, Mr. Ciric came to that place on your party's proposal and he was probably part of some political concept. It's absolutely amazing that you're trying to explain to us that Mr. Dinkic, as a poor opposition, was sitting here waiting to see these materials, and you in the party didn't tell him anything about what it was about. That's how you put Mr. Dinkic in an awkward situation. Someone who really puts himself in a situation so many times to be deceived can't be a finance minister. I don't think that's how it is, that's what you actually said. With you, Mr. Cvetkovic, I have no dispute about it, I understand you very well. I know you can't reform or a system of subsidies for public enterprises to rest on paying off all the profits. We told you about it from those benches while you were prime minister for a few years, and you made sure you didn't hear it. When it comes to the railroad, I have another kind of problem. You've appointed the director of this company as still a high-ranking official, former member of your party, and I find it a little strange that there is such a degree of confusion or absence of communication, that they thought in that company that the subsidy was given to them for wages, and that the government actually had some other ambition. What's happening now in the last 10 minutes shows what this government is going to face. They'll all end up pretending they didn't know what it was and that they were being deceived on all sides. That way, no reform can work, and that way this country will fail, and we keep getting carried away by the fact that the country can't fail. It was before Serbia's failed countries, which disappeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1899	Mrs. Plassic, please let us finish these replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1900	I understand that many people don't believe that it's possible and I understand that some people don't really believe that it's possible to hire an independent expert when he helps you work if you're a minister, but we did. I absolutely do not agree with you that it disqualifies the minister who did this in any way and that he is being deceived and therefore unworthy to be a minister later on, but rather, the minister gives freedom in the work of an independent expert. Isn't that what we're all campaigning for, that professional people should run this country's politics? You know, I believe that's funny to you, but that's what we stood for and that's what we did. So what I said is a fact. Minister Dinkic was not a minister when the budget was created. The economy minister at the time was an independent expert who had nothing to do with our party, appointed by Minister Dinkic as an expert. That's what I want to do again. Could Mrs Kalanovic have been involved in policymaking at the time? Let her say it herself, she's here. Maybe that's funny, but I believe Mrs. Kalanovic will get involved. I'm talking about the time, the December moon, right before the election, which was called after that. You know exactly what the situation was at the time when relations in the then government were at stake. In any case, the URS then had no more capacity to fully participate in policymaking, in the government... (President: You're out of time. I said we were only in government because it was the time when Serbia's candidacy was expected.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1901	Mr. Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1902	Wrong interpretation, I think it's Article 104 or 106, is one of those two members. I'm not saying it doesn't matter whether I believe it or not. It doesn't matter. I'm just saying that if such a thing really happened that the Deputy Prime Minister, in charge of the economy, was then explained to us after the government's reconstruction, I don't know about the economic part of the budget, believe me, we don't have to talk about our impression. Ask people, it pretty disqualifies them to perform any high public functions. As for Mr. Ciric, whom I obviously value much more than you, it is that it is an expert and has been brought by Mr. Dinkic, before that he was his deputy minister or assistant and I did not realize now what you are accusing him of - that he did not want to pass on to Mladjan Dinkic, that there would be no 12 salaries in the Railways, etc? I understand what you learned from that. From today's cabinet session, we realize there are no more experts. That's what you should say, too. You appointed Mr. Krkobic as Director of the Post Office today. It's a clear result of your experience with experts in previous governments. Let us tell you that we think this is even more wrong. That was funny to me, not what you said. So everything will slowly come to its own. That's why we're not nervous and we advise you not to be. But the price of it will be paid by people who are not with us today, and these are our citizens. If the URS conclusion is based on the wrong relationship or bad relationship between Minister Ciric and former Minister Dinkic, you are today ready to give up the concept of departisation, the professionalization of public enterprises, believe that this is a bad conclusion. Perhaps you should have seen the problem on the other hand and realized that other things were a problem, not the involvement of experts in the jobs that experts should do... (President: You're out of time, Mr. Andric. I'm sorry. You're the only one who'll pay for the mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1903	Mr. Shain, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1904	I'd like to ask my colleagues, in accordance with Article 106, to return to the subject. I can now say that 80 Roma were illegally displaced from the Belgrade city government today and to impose this as a topic, that the city of Belgrade is responsible for this. That's not what I'm talking about. So let's get back to the subject and get it all over with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1905	The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1906	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to analyze your budget remarks, although I might say a lot. However, I am called that, as former Deputy Prime Minister and today's minister in the new government, I did or didn't know what was going on. Many times so far and as vice president and as minister in the past government with my party, I have highlighted the absence of teamwork. Here sits the former prime minister and member of the government until the May elections. A year before the government completed its mandate in the government, I asked for an audit of the work of public enterprises. The Prime Minister is here to tell if it's true. Have we ever put on a session of the government's work of the Railways and 11 salaries in reform in the last year of office? Is it true that the Fiscal Council had warned so loud that before the elections were over 50%? Did he know that? Whether today's account at the Ministry of Finance and other ministries contains debts for which none of us sitting in government, and today sitting in government, didn't know. Neither do I. Did I know that the debts under the construction industry programme are 33 billion dinars per contract? No, because we made a decision to be 24. The absence of teamwork was something that characterized the last government. Some people have remained the same with their professional, moral, and other capacities. I'm picking myself up on one of them. I'm neither smarter nor dumber than the last government, but I want to work as part of a team that knows today, and the minister of sports and culture, as planned by the budget. What's in the budget? Is there any revenue in the budget, or is it at the discretionary cost of the ministries where one minister doesn't know what's being spent from another ministry? Today we see all income whether budget revenues, loans or donations. So we don't have a duplication, a triplication of certain projects related to the territory of Serbia in which our citizens live. Yeah, I'm telling you, it wasn't that teamwork. Yeah, I'm telling you, I didn't know how to spend all the money from the budget. Not because I'm uneducated and stupid, but because we didn't have teamwork to tie us up in a transparent way and show what was done in public finances.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1907	Do any of the registered MPs want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivan Andric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1908	Just so we understand each other and I'm finishing this round, it's not our goal to block the debate. Article 106. So obviously we don't understand each other. I can't believe you didn't even know you were hiding, that you were complicit. It's nothing. The subject is next. In this room for the third day in a row, not you personally, everyone speaking from the URS parliamentary group, you came with two findings. One is that this rebalancing is because there is a disaster in the country. On the other hand, your complicity in knowing that it was a disaster six months ago, the defense against it is that you didn't know. We're telling you another thing, that might be true. It doesn't matter. You were involved, voluntarily, in a game that led to disaster. You had your political reasons for that. The lady said you wanted the country to get candidate status. It does not free you from the fact that you were part of a team that, you say, has created a disaster that will be paid by Serbian citizens. That's all we're telling you. If this budget rebalance should bring one part of economic truth and most speakers have said so, then it should bring one part of political truth. The political truth is that you knew you didn't know. It's also a sin, because you still made a political decision, constantly, to be a part of it. Each of your MPs voted for that budget. Mr Dinkic voted for that budget. We're not. And then we told you it was a disaster. We just want that political difference not to be erased.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1909	Two minutes. The breach of Article 106, which can be done by the chairman, refers to the speaker attending the session not talking about the agenda. I ask that we stick to it, but by taking care of the order in the session, I understand that the breach of the Rules of Procedure is a cause, not a cause, because all participants speak a little more out of the agenda than it should or should be tolerated. I assume that MP Bojan Djuric and MP Aleksandra Jerkov were declared replicas. So I wouldn't give you any damage to the Rules of Procedure, so I explained again what I had already told the MP Ivan Andric. The replica, again to all participants in the session, remind them to look at the Rules of Procedure, the discretionary right of the chairman. There is no obligation to give replicas. It is the discretionary right of the chairman to decide whether the replica uses the course of the session or not. Thank you. National MP Bojan Đurić, right to the replica, so the People's Parliament of Aleksandra Jerkov and that is how we end the cycle of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1910	Please don't take this down to personal level. No one told you that you were stupid or that you were incompetent. None of us would have thought that. I spoke very precisely about you giving us no guarantee, no real basis to believe that in this government, that it's different now, it's different in the next period. That's how I started my exposure. Everything you're saying today about your former coalition partners, what you're saying about the people of the experts you've called, says our fears are justified. The fact is, we didn't get answers to a few key questions. Do all parties of the ruling coalition think that the problem of funding deficits and debt should be eliminated by selling state assets? That's what the finance minister said. I have not heard such a statement from the Prime Minister of this country or the first vice president, or the leader of the largest political party in that government. You're talking about the arrival of the IMF, and Mr. Dacic says he's dreaming of the day when the IMF will fail. That left-wing and that anti-globalism is popular, but in the end, we get this many problems, this much debt and deficits. At what rate did we take in debt, say, to Russia to finance the deficits? After January 1st, will Gazprom pay 3% or 7% by law? That's, like, a controversial question these days. Will it be sold to Telecom? Is there that seven billion in the MUP item? Don't say it later – we didn't know the MUP was paying off the profits from the second item, i.e. the increase in profits. That's what I'm talking about. Answer me those questions, and we may be convinced that in this government everyone knows everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1911	The word has a folk letter from Alexander Jerkov, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1912	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In a significantly increased tone at the beginning of her presentation, Ms. Minister said she had no intention of responding to our remarks regarding the budget rebalance. Then I really don't know why she's taking part in the session, if she won't respond to our remarks, because I see the presence of the government's representatives as a situation and an opportunity for MPs to exchange views, arguments with representatives of government and government. It's the role of who's the promoter. In addition to the obvious, i.e. that neither Mrs Kalanovic nor Mr Dinkic responds to our remarks, their role in the participation of today's session yesterday is only seen as an opportunity to explore the bad situation in which the country is located without any recognition of its role in this. I would ask you to leave the manner that Mr Dinkic has introduced these days, which is to answer questions that have not been asked him at all, that he does not answer the questions that have been asked him and that he uses every opportunity, firstly, to fence himself from everything he has done in the past 12 years and secondly, to give all MPs lessons in honesty, morality and responsible attitude to public finances. Mr Dinkic is the last person that Serbian citizens should listen to talk about, so please, Mrs Kalanovic, to engage in the debate in a manner prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and to comment on our remarks on the budget rebalancing because that is why you are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1913	National MP Slavica Saveljic has been reported, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1914	No, I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 104 and I'm asking you, Madam Chairman, on what basis did you give Mrs. Jerkov a line? It was not mentioned, nor in any way did the discussion of any MP or minister refer to her MP group or her personally. As for Mr Dinkic's exposure and the time he spent here, apparently his performance here we see much different than some opposition MPs. For us, the fact that Minister Dinkic spent almost 20 hours with MPs in the National Assembly, defending the laws he proposed, firstly, proof of the seriousness of the situation in which the country is, secondly, his seriousness as a minister and the obvious commitment to the work he was given to and, on the third hand, he is obviously fully aware that he is responsible except for the government as well. The minister's job is to explain the laws, our MPs to listen to, ask questions, make suggestions and suggestions, and I guess we'll do that in the future. The fact that some ministers in the previous government did not spend 20 hours here in four years, unlike Mr Dinkic, which is about several laws and packages that were proposed here, is indeed commendable to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1915	You've called for a breach of Article 104. Twice during the session, I reminded all of us MPs, because we are going to be distracted from our minds and to consult with our Rules of Procedure. Article 104(3) – the use of the rights referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article shall be decided by the President of the National Assembly. The right to a replica cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please read the entire article 104, attitude 1 and attitude 2 and see that the use of the rights set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 states that the President of the National Assembly decides. He can decide to allow the replica and he can decide not to allow the replica. There is no obligation, nor is there a violation of Article 104, Article 1 and Article 2 2 if it decides in either case. I cited it twice, and that's why I said – please use replicas. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by the MP Slavica Saveljic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1916	I thank you for your explanation. You've read Section 3, and you've skipped those previous two, where you say on what basis the MP can get...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1917	People's MPs, you can't point to the same breach of the Rules of Procedure twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1918	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1919	Please, everyone will have the right to replicas because there is also a time in which the session is a time in which MPs love replicas. Article 27 obliges me that what MPs like to be provided to them. So, does anyone want a replica of the reported? He insists on hurting the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1920	Madam Chairman, I appeal to Article 27 and Article 108. As chairman, you should keep an eye on the application of the Rules of Procedure and keep order at this session. We are here to witness the abuse of the Rules of Procedure that you allow, that the breach of the Rules of Procedure is used for discussion in principle. Two hours here, we've been listening to a debate between the former government's representatives who's been hiding information from whom, who's been cheating on whom, and no wonder the citizens are looking at this and seeing the situation that this government has led us to. Please, Minister Dinkic spent every day here in the O.R., it's true, but he spoke more than all the MPs. Now MPs use and abuse the Rules of Procedure to discuss the fact that they could not attend a cabinet session of individual ministers or here among themselves. Please stop this obvious abuse of the Rules of Procedure, to continue the debate. We certainly won't be able to make a deal with the colleges we reached last night, on the third item of the agenda, if we listen to the dirty laundry of the previous government here for hours. Please simply respect the Rules of Procedure and apply everything you are required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1921	Thank you. In order to apply Article 27, I fully agree with you, I have offered replicas, but I must have cooperation. I don't have co-operation if the MPs want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marijan Risticevic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1922	I shall indicate the violation of Articles 103 and 104. Article 103 - National MP shall have the right to orally indicate an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which shall be done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way, and immediately after the injury has been done. So it doesn't say there's no right to advertise Article 104. Article 104 says in the first position, what you did not agree to interpret - if the MP in his presentation at the session of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1923	National MP, article 104 has already been listed as an injury, and I have explained that something the chairman decides cannot say, that it is a matter of seeking a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Does anyone else want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP Vladimir Marinkovic, followed by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1924	The President-in-Office, Mrs Kalanovic, representatives of the resolution ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the context in which we are having a discussion today and the previous few days on budget rebalancing is at least dreary. The data we have on public debt, currently at 56% of GDP, and the budget deficit of the projected 7.1% directly affected that over the past few years we have over 300,000 people who have lost their jobs. Of those 300,000 people who lost their jobs, 280,000 people worked in the private sector, and 20,000 people worked in the public sector. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia believes that the economic measures, which are of course embedded in this proposal for budget rebalancing, are positive, especially in terms of abolishing their own revenues, the abolition of 138 parafiscal burdens on the economy. As for the increase in value added tax, of course the measure was unpopular, but it was the only possible. We think about it, and we talked about it with the Secretary-General at the Finance Committee, that in the next period when the 2013 budget is made, it is possible to cut the level of earnings, and the businessmen would accept that the value added tax is increased even to 22%. In this way, we would relieve the economy, especially the small and medium-sized business sector, and allow businesses to employ new labour and solve the most important structural problem in our economy, which is the problem of unemployment, which according to the International Labour Organisation methodology is 26% even. As far as tax laws are concerned, we must commend that, when it comes to small businesses, those with income of up to 50 million dinars, the value added tax will be paid for realisation, which is very positive. It will affect their current liquidity, affect their development and, of course, will affect new employment accordingly. With these measures and with the adoption of this budget rebalancing, it is very important that the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia work dynamically and vigorously to adopt and implement the strategy for the next four years, in terms of new investments. The issue of public debt and budget deficits and its resolution over the next four years and bringing balance levels is no longer disputed. For that we will surely have a consensus of all social factors, and representatives of the state, as we can see, and representatives of the employers' organisations, and representatives of representative unions. What we need in the next period, and we see that the Secretary of Resolute with one great energy to work, is new investments. New investments in education, new investments in new technologies, agriculture and what is most important is what will be the next part of my public sector reform exposure. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia welcomes the fact that there will be no layoffs in the public sector. We are definitely approaching one model of public administration reform, public enterprises that will make these public administrations and these public enterprises more efficient, more efficient and productive. And that public sector executives will come under the new law on public enterprises competent people with competences and opportunities to work in accordance with market principles, regardless of what they do in public enterprises and the public sector. We therefore hope that the model of market business and the model of the private sector will be reviewed in the public sector and in public enterprises. What we consider to be one of the major problems of the public sector, as well as the general economy, is this huge discrepancy between the needs of our economy in our industry, even our public sector and what we have as an offer in the labour market. We do not have a national qualification framework after 12 years which will, in agreement with one long-term economic development, define what are the key points of our country's development. What sectors do we need from public sector personnel in public enterprises so that they have a chance to get a job and to show their abilities, their competences in those jobs? I would like to give you an example of a recent statement by the interior minister's assistant that the current need on the labour market, when it comes to the fire department, is as much as 3.5 thousand firefighters. On the other hand, in some other sectors, of course, we have too many people who have completed certain colleges and schools and who are very, very difficult to employ. Of course, it only happens because I don't have any strategy in that domain. I will set an example of the DRI that has announced and will also make public administrations, that public enterprises are much more efficient, that they will not only control the regularity of financial reporting in public enterprises, in the public sector. They'll control what's called efficiency. It will control whether policy, whether projects implemented in the public sector are positively reflected in the budget. Whether or not the savings policy is conducted, and whether a policy is conducted that is consistent with the results. In that sense, the government of the Republic of Serbia is waiting for a huge job. I will only point out that the governments of many countries, developed countries for decades, have been improving their public sector and public sector development policy and public enterprises, so in some developed countries every ministry, each agency has to make a strategic four-year plan, it must define the results and those who have defined it are talking about the implementation of these results. That wasn't the case with us until now, but I think this new law on public enterprises, that we're going to be able to start solving this big problem. I mention the topic that has been discussed many times today, these are subsidies and enterprises in the restructuring process. When it comes to subsidies, we have a problem that these companies that receive subsidies do not, in the large majority of cases, have a good organisation, have no quality management and have no good control. What I urge the Ministry of Finance and Economy to do everything possible to start controlling the purpose and purposeful spending of the funds that go for subsidies and to start controlling management and affecting the maximum when it comes to human resources, that even those companies come to the most responsible and qualitative people, and that is possible. The vast majority of these companies have a market, have quality products, but with a bad organisation, in some cases even local self-government sets up management of these companies. We have a problem with the human factor, we have a problem that these companies are not of course effective, they are not market-oriented, they are not focused on results and of course we spend a long number of years on subsidies. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia believes that the budget rebalancing proposal is acceptable and that, of course, the situation in which it is discussed, in which it will hopefully bring about and that the solutions and measures defined in set 18 of the laws and budget rebalancing affect, that there is no layoff, that at least the same number of jobs will remain in this country, which is a great value for this country. To stop additional people firing. The easiest thing to say is, we have a problem, structural, let's fire 100,000 people, or 50,000 public sector people. Is that a solution? I'll remind you of Angela Merkel's statement in 2008, when the global economic crisis began, when she made a public recommendation both in the public sector and in the private sector, don't fire people, that's the ultimate measure, that's the rigidest measure. Make the companies effective. Make savings in other positions, look for new markets, and thus through strategic plans and through one good business, to deal with the crisis. In addition, let me finish, we welcome these measures to encourage our oldest citizens, pensioners. This says that this government will not only be targeted, marketed and how to say, in this part and in saving, but it will be socially responsible with investments that will bring additional value to this country and to these citizens, and, of course, as the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, we believe that the social democratic idea and the socially responsible state, the state of the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1925	The time available for your parliamentary group has been used. The word is by MP Milan Lapcevic, followed by MP Konstantin Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1926	I must confess that it is not easy, nor simply understand today the debates of certain parliamentary groups, and I have indeed been caused by some confusion. We have representatives of certain parties who participated in the previous government who criticise the previous budget and say that everything that is bad is right in it. We also have representatives of the other party who also participated in the previous government that said that the previous budget was good, but that the rebalancing was not good. We hear from the former prime minister that 125 million deficits were foreseen in the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget, and that the Fiscal Council predicted that there would be 216 if there was no measure, and if there is a measure, we reached 222. You didn't tell us Mr. Prime Minister from his former term, and how did it come from 125 to 216? What did the previous government do to create another hundred billion over the projected deficit? How could she do that? Who approved it? Based on what projects? Yesterday and today, we were listening to the very accusations on one side and on the other, who overstepped powers, who imported second-hand batteries and tires and paid them with taxpayers' money. We heard just before a frantic fact, from Mrs Kalanovic, who says that instead of the 24 billion incentives allowed for Serbia's construction industry, we have obligations for 33 billion. And who authorized it to be someone who owed this country and taxpayers an additional nine billion. If that's true and I have no reason to doubt it isn't, then here they should either listen to people from the criminal police or come here and have conversations with those who did it. I understand Mr Dinkic, who was in yesterday's debate today when he proposed budget rebalancing, when he said he was inheriting a difficult situation. We trust him. I'm sure he inherits a difficult condition and it's not easy to fix. It's not easy in the ninth month, at the end of the ninth month to fix something by 12, in those three months nothing spectacular can be done. We understand that, but we have to ask here to tell us who did it. It is impossible that none of what was said here yesterday or today, that it had not been known before, simply sounds amazing to us that Mr. Dinkic's party, Mrs. Kalanovic, who was Deputy Prime Minister, had nothing or had insufficient information from what we heard yesterday and today, did not say before. I believe Mrs Kalanovic didn't know everything she had just said to us, but I'm sure there was something that was known in January and February, and umart and May of the month, and that could have been said, as I'm sure the Fiscal Council could have said much, much earlier that the country is more in debt than it is and there's no reason to figure out percentages and that we're constantly said to be at 43, 44, and we're actually at 54 percent of GDP. So you're responsible for both of us. The citizens of Serbia that you know because you live like this today are equally guilty of all parties in the previous government, or to be more specific, are the ones who led the government, a little less of those who had a minority in that government, but surely they have to take the part of that responsibility to bear. We appreciate that Mr Dinkic has taken a bold stand to solve these problems, we see with him the willingness to change something, we appreciate certain measures he has proposed such as abolishing parafiscal intentions. Remove 130 parafiscal duties, find which are pointless and pointless and say that this should not be paid is indeed commendable. It should be commended and understood and said that this is a good thing, but we must, we can't help but feel that part of these duties, at least part or perhaps most of it was introduced, and when he was Minister of Finance or when he was Minister of Economy, or if he wasn't responsible, but the Minister of Finance suggests that it is impossible for the Minister of Economy and Economy, when he was Deputy Prime Minister from 2008 to 2011, not to give a certain opinion and consent to the introduction of these duties. So, in that part, I have a certain grudge. We also support the payment of VAT for small and medium-sized enterprises by the realisation of the invoice. If you remember, and I believe that you remember, the citizens certainly remember that in early 2009, in the middle of 2010, in three times the National Assembly proposed the same law that VAT would be paid for realisation and not for invoices. This would relieve the economy, create the possibility that those who deal with the business and the real sector and invest money in the state budget can work easier and employ more people. At that time, all the glare rejected our proposals, and only once did Minister Dinkic and criticise this proposal and said it was not quite feasible, that it was not very smart and that it would endanger public finances. It doesn't matter, whenever it comes -- it's welcome, we support this proposal, and we feel that this measure is good, necessary. Too bad it wasn't before, it would probably do less damage to the economy and the budget itself. The increase in VAT is probably an extortional measure and will certainly have a negative impact on the purchasing power of the population, will have a negative impact on inflation, but if it is the only or extorted way to increase revenues in the budget, we can understand it. The increase in excise duties for larger revenues in the budget is a measure that is otherwise known and applied in all countries, but I'm sure it could have been done differently, i.e. to increase excise duties on luxury goods, so it's always done. The increase in excise duties on TNG and diesel fuel will certainly not be a measure that will improve the situation in Serbia's finances, which may cause more damage than benefits. In particular, it will bring more revenue but this will also cause an increase in the prices of all products, because of traffic and fuel consumption, that is, its prices depend on and prices of all products. In the Law on Income Tax, we saw progressive rates in income taxation which I think could have been introduced. An example of France, the new president gradually taxed all big incomes, all big incomes, so it could be found in our amendment to the law. The budget continues to include funding items for certain agencies and offices, and we welcome the abolition of some you have announced, but we really do not understand what it is doing, for example. The Office for Co-operation with civil society, the Office for the Regulatory Platform and the Analysis of the Effect of Regulations, the Office for the Audit of the EU Fund Management System, the Office for Professional and Operational Affairs on the Negotiating Process. Each of the mentioned, and there are certainly many more in this budget, has its own budget ranging from 15 million to 50 million dinars. I think it can be shortened, too. Also, in this rebalancing process, we expected to see that the government and individual ministries, above all, have made savings on themselves. They could have cut some costs through travel costs, through contract services, it's not there, I think that measure could have been seen in the rebalancing. Support for the economy through simplification of procedures and through liquidity lending is a good measure, we support it and we think that any invested dinar that comes from credit invested in the economy is a good measure and should do so. In the end, I want to say that we have a lot of understanding for what's been said here. We understand that it is a difficult situation, but it is a real assessment of how this country's financial policy is being conducted that when the new budget arrives. The new budget, as announced by Minister Dinkic, is due to arrive for 2013 already in October of the month or November. Then we'll see what the real measures are, what the effects will be. For now, we understand these measures, some are being extorted, some are not very good, but in any case, the ultimate point is what the government's economic policy is we're going to give to the new budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1927	Nine minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. The word is by MP Konstantin Arsenovic, followed by MP Dragoljub Micunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1928	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, members of the government, honourable MPs, the PUPS Parliament Club will support budget rebalances and all of these accompanying laws that are on the agenda today. We support him for the reason that we believe that although he has many shortcomings, as the minister himself said, it is very difficult to have everything in the empty house, but we see an attempt to create assumptions through budget rebalances that in the next period that will not be so nearly, I say, it will certainly take two or three years to create conditions to get out of the crisis. It is evident that if we do not do something, that as many experts claim, there is going to be bankruptcy. It's the worst possible solution, the worst possible scene. So I want to and I want to believe that this government has the strength and opportunity to consolidate this country, to bring and create conditions for one progress, first of all, a better future. She has confidence, she has received trust from this people, she has received trust from this parliament, and it is up to her to show if it will be realized. You'll know that very soon. From here on out, I think we should give it a chance and what she drew and offered us -- to realize. As a member of the United Pensioners' Party, I think that, as far as the budget's rebalance itself is concerned, we view it positively, first of all, as it provides a stable source of funding for pensions, their regularity. They are small, no one can say they are big and they meet needs, but what is very important – pensioners only ask to share the fate of all other citizens, especially those who are employed in the public sector. Through this law we provide it. The growth of wages in the public sector is accompanied by adequate and pension growth. So no one can say that 2% is big. It's very small, but it's very important that we share the same fate. I think the pensioners are very aware of the situation. Intimately, no matter what, they support this. But we must not let, as was the attempt, first of all, turn the pension into a single social, that it loses its economic category, and if many here remember trying to solve the whole burden, especially in the period 2005-2008, with those famous laws, the whole problem of Serbia's transit through the back of pensioners. It was the intention of the average pension being 32%, and now it's 64.68, depending on what stage we're in. It's a huge difference and the pensioners have to understand and I believe they understand that. Here I want to emphasise something very important, which is that this budget provides social support, providing assistance to the most vulnerable categories, both pensioners and citizens. We need to separate that help category. A lot of people use it as their 13th pension. It's not a pension, it's a social, and we have to distinguish that concept and not identify them. So the welfare doesn't retire, she's single, for a certain time. As long as it takes, it's now a matter of social situation. When we consider the situation in this country at all, it is obvious that we are in an extremely difficult situation and the PUPS is very interested in putting the country first and foremost on sound economic grounds. Without it, no pensions, no free education, no health care, no nothing. It is therefore extremely important to create assumptions that the economy is first and foremost brought to life, to give a significant boost to agriculture as one real branch that can make a significant contribution to the recovery of the state. And not only that, we certainly support all other measures, primarily the fight against corruption, crime, etc., not to count. These are the measures that this government is implementing, and I believe that it will fight and make moves in that direction. I don't want to doubt that, and that's why I think we should support these measures, as well as those other measures. What's the result of that? It's now a sign of question and possibly a skill. We can't expect it. I don't know what kind of rebirth it is. It's enough to stop the crisis at least. What I'm particularly interested in is that through this budget rebalance, I couldn't see how the debt would be resolved to military pensioners. I'm not surprised. Today I heard from Minister Kalanovic that they practically as ministers or vice presidents did not actually work as a team. From here it is clear that there are errors made, mostly on the burden of citizens. Something similar is about the debt to military pensioners that came into existence in 2004. The government, while the prime minister was in Kostunica, took the obligation to resolve the debt in 90 days, or to propose a way of resolving it. One government passed, another government passed, no solution to this day and day. The debt that was 4.5 billion has grown to 13 billion. I wonder who's to blame now? We're trying to sew something up on the Turkey and lose it twice on the bridge. A lot of four and a half billion, no matter what. That's three times the debt has grown. That's where the lawsuits came from, a lot of people charged their debt, and when you come to the conclusion, the state is the biggest loser, then the pensioners themselves, and the biggest winners are lawyers. So it's kind of a debt. I have to remind you, perhaps the government's representatives don't know that, the Constitutional Court made a decision regarding the 2008 pension increase by 11.06%. Both the defence ministry and the labour ministry claimed that military pensioners do not have the right to increase that. Now the Constitutional Court has made a decision confirming that right. I want to point out now a new moment, a new problem, this debt will now be twice as big as the previous, basic debt. Is that how it was supposed to be? I don't think it could have been solved elegantly and much more painlessly, because now this debt will have interest, so maybe if some political pressure is applied, but I hope that the judiciary will now be independent in the full sense, because the Administrative Court should now, after the Constitutional Court's decision, reach a verdict and I assume that it will be in favour of military pensioners, otherwise there will be new lawsuits to Strasbourg, etc. Is that what we need? Should we make a circus out of what the law clearly defined? We, first of all, need to respect the laws, we need to follow or change the laws in time, not put ourselves in a position to decide or to interpret whether one law can be applied to someone or not. It's a very clear situation, and it was clear to everyone that the real military pensioners had, but it turned out to be powerful people. I think it would be very fair if someone were to suffer the consequences of it now and to file a criminal report on why he brought the state into debt, which was 4.5 billion first, grew to 13 billion and now the debt created by around 8 billion, counting on interest, and it's somewhere around 13 billion. Please, gentlemen, that's about 26 billion. It's not a little money. How are you gonna handle this? The question of turning it into a public debt is a solution, but if you do it on time. So, I suggest that if the Administrative Court makes a positive solution for military pensioners then it is necessary to pass the appropriate law to turn that debt into a public debt, to avoid bar charges. What can't be avoided let it go, but that pensions comply immediately according to regulations. The decision to the Public Debt Act for the 2004 debt, where more than 50% of people have charged their debt through the court, where almost 50% is in the process of resolving, is very unpopular and very problematic, so I think we should think about it. I'm suggesting to the government that he has this problem in mind. My presentation would end with another finding, that we would support, that our parliamentary club would support this law and all the accompanying laws and that we believed that the Government would, by the measures it had foreseen, enable the stabilisation of the economy and society so that we could move forward for a while. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1929	Thank you. The word has Dragoljub Micunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1930	I have to admit, a man here now can seriously imagine whether to speak, or not. Right, who's he talking to? Apparently, the government is somehow distanced from this rebalance. I had my doubts this morning, and now I'm almost confident and then the question arises – why should we be exposed to so many lectures, abuses, work in the night, etc. However, I am obliged by the stenographic notes to say just a few words, certainly shortening it on purpose, because there is no point in elaborateing it further. This is what it looks like now, not that it's not like some bad teamwork, but an army in ruins. At least let us know. When we take a closer look at the rebalancing, then it's not so much to wonder what it's all about. This rebalance has three problems. One's a digits. We've seen that there's a lot of things about numbers that aren't quite safe and wrong. Secondly, one question is raised -- how is it set, with what goals, where exactly is Serbia going? He's got one part of the neoliberal, the other part of the social democratic, the third part of the populist, and now it's kind of supposed to snap and add up, but it's not that easy. Then you have these contradictions that one side shows an increase in income, which you found well, but also an increase in expenditure. Then where the expenses go, we've seen, there's the police, there's the military and this third sector. There's another greater delusion here. Strong experts, we listened to a lot of lectures here yesterday, the day before yesterday and the other day. Is the problem our deficit, or is external debt like the most dramatic part we're in today? It's not. There are countries, not to mention America, whose deficit is such that it's astounding, because it's numbered by thousands of billions, so that country existes and everyone would lend it to it. Is external debt crucial to a single economy? It's not. There are European countries, you've seen as much as you want, whose foreign debt is far greater than our external debt, but these countries have not gone bankrupt, nor will many go bankrupt at all. Then what's our problem? We don't have an economy, that's the whole point. We don't have a business. To have a strong currency, there was an attack, we replaced the governor quickly because he made the dinar weak and look wonders, in a few days, the dinar of 119 came to 115 dinars for the euro. What a success, fantastic, but whoever knows about the letters from the economy knows how to become a strong currency. We don't have an export economy, and instead of inciting production, some others and all of these governments have sinned, I wouldn't go down to just one, there's a lot of them, but if we want to go to some past that's guilty, let's start with those who brought us into world inflation, unheard of. We were in bankruptcy back then, we weren't paying anybody anything, but let's not go back in time, at least not that much, let the public do it. We're here to discuss rebalancing. What have we done? This is very visible what caused the governor's fall, which is that an import lobby has been pushed out now, apparently one strong dinar, because we have no other economy besides that speculative and commercial, cheap purchase, expensive sale, profits on that difference. As long as we have the illusion that we have an economy this way, we absolutely can't solve any problems, not that foreign debt issue, or deficits because it's a secondary question. I expected from those who were engaged in economics and led this economy, so he can't tell us now Mr Dinkic that he didn't exactly run the economy. He ran the economy and ran the financials, but as he did it, he did it badly, he couldn't do it. Some have been informed, and some have not been notified in the government. Whether the entire government has been informed, there is also the prime minister, about how he spends the funds and the portfolio of Mr Dinkic. The moment you feuded with the government, and it wasn't just the flow of this government, the previous one, but the one before that, that everyone had their own portfolio, that's where no one's wondering, that's where they have their own certain public enterprises, and that's where they reign. So, the government's been misplaced, long ago she's not a team. From what we have now as a budget rebalance, we can look at it, take it, deliver it, it won't affect our economy much. What I see is that those who have been strongest so far are very much affected by the development of our economy, which is that they represent one import lobby, that they have won. We'll see about that, and tomorrow we'll see more. What confuses me is the governor's statement the other day in a conversation with the businessmen that without exporting and strengthening the export economy we can't do anything further. We knew that before that. But there's another problem here. Let's trust Mr. Dinkic that it'll all be great, we'll take the money from here, and we'll borrow from there, and we'll take one Chinese loan, and then one Russian, and we'll fill the budget, and it'll be great. I'm not sure, we don't have the government's answer because it's inconclusive in that sense that it really looks like a clear team. Are we going to cooperate with the IMF or not? And what we're going to do when the IMF says that we need to change the law we quickly passed and put under political control the financial sector. That's what he's asking us to do, and we've lost all night convincing him not to do it. That's what the IMF wants, that's what the EU wants, that's what the World Bank is looking for. There's been a lot of changes in the laws here, but there's no change, or change in that law that we passed the day before yesterday, where we allowed party officials to be governors. So we haven't answered that question, and that's the question that immediately binds us to whether we're going to rely on the treatment of our financial difficulties on the IMF, or not. The other problem is immediately connected to the EU, and there are ambiguous answers, the verbal majority, except for one party, the DSS, all others are very energetically defined for the EU, etc. All right, that's nice, but now let's see if it's all like that. When certain specific questions arise, here is one question, not to mention Kosovo or another, then we do not have a clear answer. This government owes us an answer where she thinks she's leading Serbia? Neither she knows, nor anyone in this country can clearly answer to herself based on government policy. It's our central problem as a society, what we're going to do. As we see here today without the Government, its representatives, it's a semi-forsaken parliament, an economy completely inefficient in great indifference and loss. What's that look like now? Who's responsible now? We want to order all previous governments and ancestors to call for responsibility, or we have very easily grabbed power – excellent, we have won the elections, now we have the power and now we will do whatever we want. Here, what did you do? The beginnings themselves have created entirely indecisive contradictions with which the government has set out. I'm sorry, I'd say a few other things here, but if the government isn't here, I can write it in writing. Maybe we'll start in the future with the government in writing to communicate, we'll send her some letters, they'll send us some regulations and we'll communicate. One word, for all of this I've said and many other reasons I haven't been able to say and I won't, we're going to vote against this, simply, that we simply don't bear any responsibility for something that is absolutely still a stillborn and can't solve the issue well. The basic question is – how to raise the standard of living, what is the citizens interested in? There's no answer to that question here. Some raises, I don't know 2%, and we're already seeing planned inflation, which is going to be two digits. Well, that'll eat 4%, not 2%. Therefore, there is nothing to hope for for citizens of this kind of rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1931	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Slavica Saveljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1932	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been talking in continuity for several days about a whole set of laws that have character and economic and financial and, among which, this proposal, the budget rebalancing. For all of these laws, we can say that they certainly bear the character of the anti-crisis and necessary measures the government had to take to stop the sunflower in which the country started, caused by the economic crisis and also by the waste that marked the first five months of this year. I don't think there's any more unpleasant and ungrateful task for neither the government nor the MPs, but that in the current year we're correcting a budget that we haven't designed, a budget that we've neither voted for nor adopted, nor we can bear responsibility for it. A little bit of what we're doing here today looks like a patient in the last stage of the disease, who's been treated for a long time by a good doctor, so in that emergency state, they bring him to an operating table, and then they expect a miracle from doctors. What was the basis for submitting this rebalancing proposal? The first and basic fact is that most of the budget for this year has been spent. It all indicates that the budget was planned for the first five months, that is, until May of the month, and after that, to get by and do what we can. That's why it seems to me that we're doing a really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really hard job here today. That is why our role today is as MPs and that the more realistic we look at the conditions from which this rebalancing was being prepared, the circumstances that have significantly dictated that some measures be proposed and defined and not looking for justification, but still remind citizens of some important facts. First, that the country today is in big trouble, ahead of bankruptcy, and that the situation has never been more serious. Secondly, that the budget deficit is the largest Serbia has ever had, that public debt has exceeded all possible borders and that in the last two years poverty has risen again strongly in Serbia. Whenever it comes to a budget, whether it's local or republican, it's asked in a political jargon to characterise the budget, so some are developmental, some are investment, some are social, some are responsible, and for this one we can only say that it is necessary, or extorted, and that it represents a compromise between the necessary and the possible. Under the conditions of economic, social, economic, economic, social collapse, this government is clearly set up a very difficult task to save what can be saved. What can't possibly be recovered is that large part of the money spent from the budget, money spent, and other obligations, to ensure for an even whole quarter and something stronger than that the regularity of budget payments, salaries, pensions, subsidies, regular service of social benefits, child benefits, unemployment, functioning of health care, military, police, culture, justice, science, education and a whole range of other subjects who are of vital interest to life and the work of citizens. Surely this rebalancing would have been very different if the previous government had more realistically planned its obligations, and we have already heard of all segments of these unwitted assets and applied. The fee for the unemployed, planned only seven fees, is not yet due in the budget. The miners' salaries, a billion and 700 million missing. Nine billion is a commitment to the Fiat, two billion for the military, 10 billion for agriculture and so on. The biggest separations this rebalancing is about where savings can't be saved, which are social contributions. This morning, we heard from the minister that 10 million were scheduled, and in talks with his service, I received information that it was moving around 13.4, of course, when we add up not only social protection positions, but also unemployment benefits. The second largest is interest on unfavourable loans. It's been calculated that at this point we're missing 11 billion. I'm just going to make a comparison of how much there is in the budget that eight annual budgets of the town of Kragujevac need to be allocated to pay the interest. So, almost a decade of functioning of a city that has 200,000 inhabitants and provides work and schools and kindergartens and urban transport and road construction, infrastructure, maintenance of municipal hygiene, we only give for interest in one year. The third largest singles are agricultural segregation. The nominal increase is 10 billion, therefore, and due to the planned subsidies, promised and not paid, and due to the drought, around 60% of the basic budget has been increased. Hence, an increase in the revenue side of the 20 billion budget did not have a positive impact on the growth of the budget, but surely without those 20 billion savings and revenues, the situation would be even worse. That's why we think the proposed increase in VAT from 18% to 20% was really a necessary measure. There was not even much thinking about it in this congregation. But what's good is that basic provisions of life remained at the 8% VAT level and that it was not corrected, so it protected the widest layer of the population. Some people who study living standards have calculated that the average Serbian family will be affected by the combined VAT to increase their living costs by only 0.9%. We don't think that any new burden is good, because citizens have suffered the burden of this crisis for too long, but we really think that it is minimal at this point. She had the government, though, and another possibility that what she found was unprovoked and agreed to leave it also unpaid, that justice is the guilt of some others, but then the cycle of dissatisfaction, strikes, court proceedings, interest is reopened. Believe me, these processes are much more expensive than budgeting, and I'm not sure that we would send a serious EU message, whose attention and seriousness we are facing for the work of this government. This is definitely just the beginning. He's very heavy. Perhaps, in a budgetary sense, we have an even more difficult, budget weight coming up next year. The hardest thing to do is to make order in an empty house, but what we certainly know won't be, there won't be any microcry of the existing state, and there won't be any intention of showing things better than they are. We heard from the minister very precise parameters that measure both success and failure and every measure proposed by this government has been quantified through certain amounts. So, and the increase in VAT, we heard how much funding is expected on this basis for the budget and for the elimination of 138 parafiscal liabilities and through the abolition of unnecessary agencies and funds, is all expressed in figures, even how much the budget deficit and public debt will be reduced by 2015, so one medium-term measure. I must say that there are, in addition to all these general reasons, two special reasons why the U.S.S. will, and I must say, MPs together for the Forest, within the U.S.S., support the adoption of this rebalancing. First, it is a firm promise by Minister Dinkic that there will be no changes to the law on the financing of local self-government. It's the law that allowed 80% of the income tax to be paid back to local self-government. It is a law that the U.S.S. has been very keenly advocated in the previous period and for which over half a million citizens have received support. Those half a million citizens did not give wind to the back of the URS, but it was fully aware that local self-governments were in a vasal position and that their position was very difficult unless the funding was as proposed by the RS. The return of these funds was actually artificial breathing for many small and large local self-governments. And regardless of what we advocate for decentralisation, we will also support the Minister's proposal to introduce enhanced control within local self-government, or spending money, because not all local self-governments are equally responsible. The second particular reason we're going to support it is this proposal to make contractual and unpaid commitments to the Fiat come true. So "Fiat" is the largest Serbian investment. "Fiat" is the whole Kragujevac sighted today. With the "Fiat" coming, next to it, and all those who follow the production of "Fiat," but many others, and if the government doesn't meet its obligations, they're certainly not going to come. So this is not only important for Kragujevac is important for the whole region, it is important for the whole country, because it is investment in both infrastructure and roads and new jobs. In the end, I won't say anything new. We will assess the work, the real work of this government only at the end of the year when they are able or unable to create a budget for 2013. We have very serious promises that the budget deficit will be reduced to 3.5%, that subsidies will be abolished, except in agriculture, or the subsidy is reduced, except for subsidies in agriculture, that many unnecessary costs of the state will be rationalised, unnecessary bodies that ate budget money, I mean agencies and funds, and that the particular burden of the crisis will be broken over those who can handle it. The URS MPs will support the adoption of this law, and it is up to you and your ministers to give this people, after the collective depression they have brought us into, a little hope that it will be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1933	Thank you. The word is Dragan Tomic according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1934	Thank you. I've just responded to the Rules of Procedure for the presentation of the previous speaker, but you haven't noticed my reaction. Mr. Micunovic made some very difficult accusations and spoke beyond the agenda, which is a violation of Article 106. Rules of Procedure. He said the creators of this rebalancing budget are people who run an import lobby in Serbia. This system of devising every situation we are in, the system of liberal concept that we are going through, was brought down on the chance of man having a positive attitude in this society, and it is about some concept and philosophy of Mr. Micunović's life. I'm sorry that he's not here right now, but saying that the import lobby creates one state budget in this House is a heartless illusion that the time we're going through has no chance, that the people he voted for is a simple farce and that's not true. This people want their chance and they won it in May. I have to say, at this point, we're going through the facts that you've created. He's set another thesis. He says -- this government owes an answer that will lead Serbia in the coming period? Serbian citizens recognized it in their voices, and so they voted. They gave their vote to the SNS and gave the election to President Tomislav Nikolic. They want a new chance. We don't allow you to mull out this time we're in today. A new chance will be seen by the citizens in a month, when a new budget is put before this people. Then he will see which way Serbia will go in the coming years.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1935	Time. Thank you. The word is Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1936	I will begin with the sentence with which Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic finished his presentation today. I quote - is this rebalancing good? I can say it's not. I want to express my agreement with Mr. Secretary, the rebalancing is not good. The other thing I'm trying to say is, when Mr. Secretary's exposure continues, it can be seen that he's the only thing that's possible, that he's necessary, that I don't say evil. When you look at the material that this government had at its disposal, it is clear that such material could not have been made better. Of course, we have rebalancing in mind, and there have been such issues today, and that is not something that changes or that can change economic policy. Rebalance aims to ensure the most necessary functioning of the state by the end of the year, in these conditions today. Today we have heard very clearly the state in which Serbia is located. For these reasons, with all the effort, with everything left behind as debt and included in the rebalancing, and all that is yet to be foreseen by the end of the year, thinking first of all about the economy, agriculture and social giving, this rebalancing, as it is, deserves support. The SPS parliamentary group will support this rebalancing. Today we also heard the possibility of artificially creating a smaller deficit, that some payments be transferred over the next year, and then had a better rebalancing. I want to give strong support to the government for not doing so, which came out openly, clearly, honestly to the public with each of these data. I won't take time to repeat them because we've heard them so many times today. What I also think is very important, these real measures, along with those already taken through these bill proposals that we had yesterday, today and the day before, anti-crisis measures, fiscalisation measures, the real effects will be seen in the adoption of the 2013 budget. Then you will see yourself in the right place, at the right time the full responsibility of this government. What I particularly want to point out, with the support of the announced measures not only for 2013 but still until 2016, I want to support the direction. I belong to those who think the government has a clear direction, not that it is not there, and I want to support the direction to put Serbia's economy first, without questioning fiscal policy, public debt, or deficit, or any of that. But one thing that we all agree on in Serbia is that Serbia is in a difficult social situation. The government's priority, and it is good that it is announced, is to stop the economic situation in which Serbia's economy is located and improve it in the coming period. Without it, there is no budget in the coming years, because we will constantly overrun from hollow to empty, and the economy will be the measure of the government's success if it succeeds in stopping economic collapse, if it starts economic recovery, because it is the only way it can improve citizens' living standards in the coming period and fill the budget. What I want to stress, when it comes to the economic situation, is to support and remind once again of the government's intention to include all people of knowledge in Serbia, and businesses and finance and trade unions, so all those who touch this situation, this crisis, in seeking the best solutions to the country's exit from the crisis. I therefore welcome the formation of the National Council for Economic Recovery, Renaissance, Development, as I welcome and establish the National Council for the Development of Agriculture, because it shows the government's intention to include in a serious and responsible way all those who know, who want to help, how best to get out of this situation. What I also want to stress, the economic and social situation is very difficult. Reforms are necessary in the country, there is no dispute, there are both necessary and social, but neither can succeed unless they are socially just. If there is no social consensus in Serbia around them. So, again, I strongly support the government's direction to activate social dialogue, to include social partners, and the government, and employers, and trade unions, to put before them every measure, every law concerning this area, to discuss with them all these issues and to really come up with a full expression of social dialogue and the function of the socio-economic council. I have the information that at the head of the socio-economic council put the prime minister talking about the seriousness of access to this issue. I want to point out and repeat -- without a social agreement, nothing can succeed in Serbia in terms of solving these accumulated problems. I'd like to take a quick look at some questions from the rebalance, without mentioning the number. First of all, when it comes to the income side, I want to make our position clear. When it comes to VAT increases, we consider it necessary but extorted. No one can like an increase in taxes. What do we think is good in this situation? Which hasn't increased that lower rate. Why does it matter? It is important, because if it was increased, only then would the widest layers of the population in Serbia be threatened, and the widest layers are the poorest, and they only buy the basic existential goods. Of course, once again, for six years we have been repeating this question, we welcome the final decision to free the VAT even with this kind of modality, that is to say return the part of the baby VAT. The second thing we want to point out is that when it comes to income tax, we consider citizens to be the right thing to do. Why do we think so? It's about interest, dividends and capital gains? Who's got interest? The one who's got the money. Who's got dividends? The one who does. Well, they should give more in accordance with our policy. And otherwise, when it comes to tax policy, our position is to take the most from those who have the most, less than those who have less, and those who have no state to give them. So here I believe that the most expected is dividends, proper politics. What's missing from these laws, and seeing as there's been an announcement since the new year, that's corporate profit tax. We also find this very important, one move, one measure not only to increase income, but just to implement the policy so that those who have more pay, and thus release those less, less, that they can enter the severest competition. One more thing to point out, which we believe is as important as our policy, which we stand for, which is an increase in profit tax opens up space to reduce income tax, and this is also our view as an opportunity to free the economy of a part of the income tax, thus creating a condition for new employment. In the end, we consider it correct if capital tax increases and labour tax cuts. And with that, we think it's going to be a significant question. Finally, we absolutely support those laws relating to the administration of the law, especially in that part of strengthening the capacity of the Tax Administration to curb the grey economy. The grey economy is something the government must deal with because it is a major problem for Serbia. Of course, it's not enough, it follows a whole series of necessary measures. When it comes to spending, I just want to remind you one more thing, it's good that these funds are given to the economy. After all, if no funds were provided for Fiat, how could we expect someone to meet their obligations to organise the production, and the state to fail? How can we expect to build a Corridor if no means of expropriation are provided, etc.? After all, the economy needs to be invested. This is the dilemma that has become a fake – is it saving or spending? And that is our attitude, both of them. , but not that savings on account of the widest layer of the population, but saving unnecessary, saving the state, saving the state administration, procedures of the agency, etc., and, on the other hand, investment in investment spending. Without a new investment cycle, there's no getting out of the crisis. Without a new investment cycle, no economic growth, no new employment. I will conclude that this government, and not just this one, is the success of its economic policy, not only has it stopped the layoff of workers, but has it hired workers. This is what we believe will be presented through the 2013 budget and through clear policy in the next period. What I also want to point out, all these measures were announced in the prime minister's exposé when the government programme was implemented. All that we talked about, and social giving, especially for Serbia that has a very large number of poor people, and it's not a shame to be poor, it's a shame that the state is watching and not helping, and when it comes to salaries and pensions, and it's a good thing that the government has managed to withstand that pressure not to cut wages, not to freeze, but to attack the biggest ones, as seen in this bill, we are giving absolute support. So, all this stuff that I'm talking about is given in the prime minister's exposé in the implementation of the new government's program. I want to draw the conclusion that the government is responsible for this approach, that it has completed what it has announced in the programme, proof that it has a clear policy. Here, I can see these days that she's firmly defended and we believe she'll be doing a great job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1937	Thank you. The word is Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1938	The President-in-Office, Mrs Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the budget rebalance is unfortunately just a picture of the dreary, black, tragic picture of the reality in which our society is located. He is more than one answer, an extorted move, an extorted move only possible to stop total chaos and decay, but in any case he does not give long-term solutions. It shows some outlines of the new government's strategy, but we expect a new budget for 2013 when we will be able to give a real assessment of the strategy, about the real government's reaction to this terrible situation, the economic and social situation in which society has found itself. What are the elements that define our general social crisis? First of all, the budget deficit planned was around 152 billion, and the end of the year will be 200 billion. Therefore, a surplus of 50 billion was made. When we look at the government's public debt by the end of the year, it needs another billion and 700m euros, for the next year 5.4 billion euros. When we look at the terrible decline in production every day, when we have reduced public income by 4.2%, which is due to the decline in the production of poor tax policy, the grey economy, and that our GDP is 60% less than we had in 1989, then we fully understand where we are today as a society. All given that, we are in the position that the state has made 50 billion deficits bigger. This means that she has been wasteful towards a dinar that has been bloody separated from the citizens of this country. Dispersion at every turn. Let's just look at how busy the administration at all levels has been lately. We've received information that he doesn't even know how much he works in the state administration or local self-government. In just a few days in Novi Sad, several hundred new workers were hired by their party counterparts when the DS retired from power. It became a fashion for party books to walk from public enterprises to public enterprises to get a job. Some parties must have fully employed all their memberships in some public enterprises. The whole country will be on the budget, and the production is gone. Not to mention the agencies, over 150 agencies that were introduced, over half of which doubled all the work that already existed in some state institutions. Not to talk about subsidies to public enterprises that are almost all losers, and with them 30% of the salary is higher than the average of the state, and two and three times the average of the salary in the economy and in the production. Are we responsible for society and what kind of behavior it is? Surely the only and "conditional son-quantum" condition of this country's survival is on the one hand savings, and on the other hand investment in production. Saving the state, first of all, not the citizens, at all levels. Savings to the limit of endurance. Someone may not be aware of the difficult situation in which the country is located, but if the state of the surplus administration is not released, unless the surplus agency is released, unless it ceases to give subsidies to the failings of public enterprises, if it does not start to invest every saved dinar in production, the end will come very soon. Everyone in this country needs to be clear. The waste of countries in conditions where many families in this country live on the border of existence, when they live like hell, when they're about to cry out from the weight of fighting for survival and survival, the state throws all over the place. It's socially irresponsible and we as humans have to fight it with all our strengths. Therefore, what is important to say, if we are talking about the release of surplus employees in the administration, no one is happy and no one is happy that many people have to lose their jobs to save the country, but no one asks how many small and medium-sized enterprises are shut down because of this enormous employment of the administration over every measure? How many manufacturing workers are out of work overnight? Has anyone ever cried for these people, and hundreds of thousands of people stayed overnight and lost two-euro firms? Did anyone ask why those people had their lives in those two euros? It's hard to talk about, but the social crisis is so severe that these cuts are completely inevitable. It's not just this budget and it's not just a crisis in that sense, we're living in an all-out social crisis. It can't be this rebalancing, no matter how many zeros or less, those zeros of society have come to us and our heads, because they've often determined our fate, here must be a multidisciplinary approach, a survival strategy of this country must be made. This involves involving many institutions and implies that the environment changes completely, both socially and businessly, if we are to survive and survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1939	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1940	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I am sorry that Mr Dinkic is not presently here to discuss the proposed budget rebalancing, but as well as Mrs Kalanovic as Minister of Government, I am sure she will give some answers to our questions. The colleagues who were in the previous meeting know that Mr. Sulejman Ugljanin was on time defending the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Mr Dinkic said a few days ago that he was not satisfied with the proposed budget rebalance, and in today's opening statement, he said the proposal was not good. We understand the reasons he presented, that it's not easy to correct everything that happened in the first half of the year, but we are really interested in the DSS why tonight is not the Prime Minister? We believe that, first of all, this is a political issue and we are very interested in the answers that the Prime Minister would give us today. Mr Dinkic painted himself on this budget, he said this was a book he didn't write, but he wrote only a conversation, but I witnessed that he read this book and voted for this book when the budget was discussed. His first significant step for which he takes full responsibility, the first book to be written as the latest minister in the latest government, is the draft budget for 2013. This law is called rebalancing in the people, and today we have heard that a new term is being introduced, that it is an annex of the budget, but this is still law, amendments and additions to the Budget Law. It is not said for nothing that this is the most important law, because it is practically an expression of the economic policy of a government. Our legitimate fear that, based on this rebalancing and everything that comes after this, there is a real danger that Serbia will continue to slide into a crisis and disaster that this country has been introduced by the previous government headed by Mirko Cvetkovic. When we discussed the adoption of this budget, I then suggested that two budgets be adopted, one to lie to the people, one to the pre-election, and one to the real budget, which would really allow this state to function normally. What have they done to the Fallen in the meantime? They just took pictures, and in the meantime they faded standing like that in that window, so it's no wonder they went through the election like that. Mrs. Kalanovic, the DSS is wondering if you could give us an answer on how much the economy owes at the moment? We know that the biggest debtor of the state, and I remind you that when the government adopted the previous rebalancing and the 2012 budget, it tried to book-basedly reduce the deficit by transferring all payments for 2012, for all the works carried out. Mr Dinkic claimed that the previous finance minister and previous prime minister forged data on the level of public debt at the end of 2011. We've been in this House for a year and we've been talking about your data being cut. I think every minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia must be responsible for what he has made public. It is impossible for the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, to say that the level of public debt is 45%, that the Fiscal Council says it is 49, and Mr Dinkic said it is over 56% and that by the end of the year it will be around 60%. It's no excuse, not for the citizens of Serbia, nor for us here that it's a different methodology that counts. The state audit institution said in December 2011 that the deficit is significantly higher than what the government shows, i.e. public debt, pardon. The level of the deficit, Mr Dinkic, forecasts somewhere at 7%, but I can't really remind all of you, while Mr Dinkic was Prime Minister in the government of Mr Vojislav Kostunica, he proposed to us a budget that had surpluses and such a budget was adopted in this parliament. To finance deficits and repay public debt by the end of this year, Serbia needs a billion and 700 million. It is projected to be between four and five billion euros next year. I wonder, what is the government's plan to secure these funds? I may not know for a whole year, but can you at least tell us about January and February the month when we get about 700 million euros? With the rebalancing, you plan a fiscal consolidation based on increasing revenue in the budget. And this budget rebalance predicts revenue increased by 20 billion, but also expenditures higher by 25 billion. So it increases the deficit compared to the previous rebalancing. I am sure it is not a good basis for talks with the International Monetary Fund, because the IMF would not approve it. Mr Dinkic said that we need the IMF, but that experts who are in the Fiscal Council and better than the IMF experts, we had the opportunity today, and yesterday, and the day before to hear what the Fiscal Council thinks about this rebalancing. Mr Dinkic says the IMF is welcome to Serbia, but I ask where the prime minister is to hear if he thinks the IMF should make an arrangement with us. I'm sure that arrangement won't happen. It's not going to happen not because the IMF doesn't like us, or I don't know for some other reason, but it's certain that this arrangement can't be made based on these parameters. And not only by the end of this year, it won't be concluded in the following year, and that brings down certain consequences regarding the inflow of foreign capital from another bank. The measures you proposed yesterday and the day before in this assembly should yield significant results, and indeed there are some good proposals there, but I am sure that if they do not deliver the price they will pay the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our economy. Inflation growth will certainly accelerate over the next few months, and above all due to a rapid increase in food prices. You know for a fact that in Vojvodina corn yields are on average three tonnes per hectare, except on those surfaces that are irrigated at 12. And it must inevitably lead to an increase in food prices, and hence inflation growth. Over the next year, pensions and salaries in the public sector will not be able to grow according to planned dynamics, but will be co-ordinated by 2% in October and 2% in April. That's what we're talking about last year's company. We knew they wouldn't be able to carry this out and there would be a deviation from this indexation. I really believe that Serbia is a very poor country with a wasteful state apparatus, and that these measures will not bring any of Serbia's citizens a significant improvement in the quality of their lives. But I am glad that Mr Dinkic announced that the budget will arrive in a month, that the budget calendar in this assembly will finally be respected, and that we will have two months to discuss the budget, in the first written book by Mr Dinkic, with the desire to really stop this Serbia's collapse. As far as the DSS is concerned, you will always have a partner in us, because we are the last to want all of this to go to waste, not to be realized, because of the citizens of Serbia, for entering into a debt crisis of all the problems that can be expected by our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1941	Thank you. The word is Zlata Đeric. The remaining time is one minute and thirty-six seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1942	The President-in-Office, I will try to get what I have to say to fit into that time that remains for the New Serbia parliamentary group. So, we've heard a lot today about budget rebalancing, it's not easy to bring budget rebalances in the year when one government spent the same budget mostly, and the other government must now fire-related to the situation in the country and try to rebalance the budget, first of all, that those strongest things and the hardest things, social matters in one country calm down. So what is a matter that truly cares about the New Serbia parliamentary group is information that has echoed in public these days, and that is true that a huge debt has been hidden in the Republic of Serbia's budget. In addition, it is disturbing one information that you today, Mrs Kalanovic and visioned, which is that the ministries of the previous government have spent considerable resources as discretionary means. Allow me, but the ministries have no right to spend discretionary money on citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Budget is not government property, budget is not government profit, budget is Serbian citizens' funds and their ownership, and at any time Serbian citizens should have insight into the funds spent on their behalf, and for their account. So, first of all, we as a parliamentary group expect it, and I think all MPs in this House as representatives of Serbian citizens, and above all, expect them to be answered as possible and who will answer, by name and last name, for hidden funds, which have been spent and only now announced that such a minus has come. So 56% of public debt is not a small item and is not a small number, that response is expected very quickly by Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1943	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic, please. Ladies and gentlemen, today in the presentation of the finance minister we have heard a lot of facts and these five minutes which I intend to contribute to the debate on both budget rebalancing and the laws, one of the laws that is the subject of our joint debate, it is the Law on determining maximum earnings in the public sector. So, the minister presented a number of facts, several times, the fact of the time when, as a successful minister between 2004 and 2006, he also had a draft budget surplus in the Serbian Parliament. Since his exposure was expressed through the prism of personal courage and taking responsibility for the management of finance and resolution, both public debt and the introduction of fiscal responsibility. I say that without any irony or sarcasm, because it was obvious that he truly believed in it, that he took over a job that no one wanted to accept. I just want the facts he shared with us as his motive to do a difficult job in the government, to add the context of the time he mentioned, which is that in May 2006 he resigned with other ministers. That one August day we had a single session called extraordinary, for making decisions to take immunity from one of the prosecutors found to be in the criminal part of the bribe and that we spent the night in whether or not the ministers resigned. That's what's left unconfirmed. Context is important. The fact without context is completely unusable. I can only mention the President of the Assembly of that time, Mr. Predrag Markovic, who is truly with incredible skill, but also with the cooperation of all of our parliamentary groups and us from the opposition, and all of the parliamentary groups that have made the government, managed to finish that session. In the autumn of 2006, there was no session of the Assembly, there was a referendum on the Constitution and there was no budget for 2007. In 2007, we had the only temporary funding twice, which was why in June 2007 we passed a special law to justify it. I'm telling you again, I'm not saying it as a criticism, because I was a part of co-operation, because there were more important things, there were priorities that we agreed on, I'm saying as a remark, that the fact without context was completely unusable. As for the law I want to say a few words about, before him only a comment on the minister who spoke about the debt, i.e. the deficit and what is the official document of the Fiscal Council. Several times, the minister said the fiscal council didn't know. If he didn't know about one debt, he didn't know about this, he didn't know about it, except that it's on the verge of respect for the Rules of Procedure to talk about one regulatory body in that way. If that is true, we have a much bigger problem than the Minister's decision and motivation to deal with problems and rather than the final data and facts, but also the context of the public debt and the difficulties this budget takes. If the finance minister for the regulatory body elected by this assembly says he has no idea how the deficit is expressed, then the problem is much greater than any of our mutual views or interpretations of one or another digit. I don't want to believe that the minister really thinks it, I want to believe that he just wanted to argue that he's right, but the responsibility of a public word is great, and the finance minister shouldn't say that the Fiscal Council doesn't know, and that he's giving an official report as an elected body in the Serbian Parliament. The Law on the establishment of maximum earnings in the public sector has two problems. One amendment I've submitted, I'll talk about it in detail, lets the government define what competition is and lets the government define who's doing good business, so he doesn't have to respect the Max Profit Act. The amendment I have made concerns various people who fall under the law but the decisions of local self-government or government decisions do not make their profits in the country. They're left out, if they're not from diplomacy, I think they'd have to be in this law to allow them to do the jobs that the state sent them to do. I want to believe that there is strength and will to work together on the problems that we consider important to solve, whether we belong to the ruling majority at some point or to the opposition at some point, but I need to remind you all that it's not enough to report facts, we all need to talk about the context in which the facts exist, then things are good enough, well presented to be the subject of dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1946	Names of course, which are in line with the Rules of Procedure, and I will refer to that reference to the very position she has put forward and with which I agree, Mrs. Covic, which is that we have to take care of facts in the context. Of course, when something was six years ago, then only the memory of the context remains an impression, but it is not bad to remind the facts, as when they asked Ilif and Petrova how they write it together, then Ilf said – well, I simply come and throw a few things, then only Ilif does it later, let's say – the blonde girl on the subway page is waiting for the subway, her hair is lying in the sun, then Ilif comes and says – she's not a blonde girl but a worker in Siberia, she's not exactly waiting for the subway, she's sentenced to jail, and then we just agree. So, the impression is certainly true, thank you, it wasn't May, it was November, it wasn't a long and sparky August night, it was one in November, but everything else, the impression is nice. Why does it matter? Because it wasn't a long night at the time, but one Sunday afternoon, when all the MPs were saying where the president, where the president is, we'd sort this out, they were actually playing a political game, because when the president who was on the road showed up on Monday and asked if anyone was looking for me, then everyone said, yes, if you hadn't resigned. I have shown that I have already returned these resignations, not adequate, you must always do something by law, precisely to do, return, and today we have repeatedly and yesterday in various political situations, I support Mrs. Comic that we do not, we have had the exchange of different impressions from people who have never been able to enter the government as hard as they tried... (President: Time, Mr. Markovic. )......................................................................................................... Accepting retraining, whatever. They told us about their impression of one government, another government, the third government, what it looks like in the government. We don't need these impressions, let's go back to the facts, that will help us, and in the meantime, and with the kind of respect that exists in this dialogue between Mrs. Comic and me, I don't abuse direct address but an expression of respect when you talk about someone, to look at them, it will help all of us to get back to what we've come together about, and that's that we solve this rebalancing together. Thank you very much. That's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1947	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1948	Thank you. Dear Madam President, I would like first of all to say that through the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the 2012 Budget Act, a set of accompanying laws, as well as a set of anti-crisis measures that we have talked about in the Republic's Parliament and over the past two days and today throughout the day. So, through these legislative proposals, I would say firstly, that one clear determination and determination of the Government of the Republic of Serbia can be seen, that the period of economic crisis will be overcome in the most painless way, at the very least. Respecting and respecting the discussions of all fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I want to believe that the interest of all relevant political actors in the political scene of Serbia, that the interest of all those who today in Serbia have some responsibility, all those who are pillars, backbones or the backdrop of society in extremely important areas in Serbia, is therefore the general interest of all to overcome these economic difficulties together, in the general interest of citizens in one of the most painless ways. I want to be absolutely clear and completely precise -- this is not a crisis of the current government of the Republic of Serbia, nor is this a crisis of only employers, nor is this a crisis of unions alone, this is a crisis which unfortunately has been gripping all of Serbia for many years. That is why, as a parliamentary club, we support the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia, the policy of the widest possible agreement, the policy of the widest possible dialogue, the policy in which everyone in Serbia will assume responsibility in an extremely difficult period of time. When I say, the policy of the widest possible agreement and the widest possible dialogue, of course I think first of all about the agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with all those who are pillars of society in the most important areas in Serbia. First of all, we are thinking about the social dialogue of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, employers and trade unions and everything agreed on and reached by consensus, the relationship between social dialogue and the social agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, employers and representative trade unions, always fully acceptable for the SPS parliamentary club. The proposals we're talking about today, which we've been talking about over the past two days, are actually one reality. They're a realistic response to economic and social problems today. These proposals for us are completely understandable. Having, above all, in mind the situation in which we are, the economic situation in which we are located, the economic parameters which today in Serbia are unfortunately not at an envious level, and on the other hand, bearing in mind, above all, the determination and determination of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the burden of the economic crisis should at least be felt by those who today do not have, therefore, the most socially vulnerable categories of the population. We believe that such a concrete proposal, concrete legislative proposals can mitigate the negative effects of the economic crisis, but we believe that the government will come out in the coming time period with one long-term strategy for the development of a production plan, strengthening the economy, new investments, creating new jobs. With such suggestions, I will repeat this, we will mitigate the negative effects of the economic crisis. The crisis can only come out with the strengthening of the economy, the launch of production, new jobs, new investments, when I say investment, I mean capital projects, infrastructure projects. There is no economic without infrastructure development, and I guess it's clear to all of Serbia today. As far as the SPS Parliament Club is concerned, for us at this time, and we see on the proposal that this is a unique position of the Government of Serbia, there are two extremely important national and state-owned interests – the economy and standard of living of citizens, and this is very clearly defined by the legal proposals that we spoke of here in the Republic Parliament. These proposals that we are talking about today, I would disagree, are neither economic nor political. These are suggestions that have very precise calculated and targeted practical results. Of course it's important, and that's what we're talking about today, but clearly there are certain misunderstandings and misunderstandings, of course it's important, and I want to make it absolutely clear and completely accurate to say, have a correct relationship with IMF representatives. Of course it is important to reach an agreement with IMF representatives, because that is Serbia's interest. Of course, it is also important to consider the relevant opinion of the Fiscal Council. But you know how. It seems to me that everyone in Serbia today has an interest. I want to say very clearly and precisely – the interest of the parliamentary club SPS, and I see that it is also the interest of the government of the Republic of Serbia, is the interest of the citizens of Serbia, is the interest of Serbia. And if someone thinks that at this point, instead of these proposals that we're talking about today, there's another proposal that's more realistic, which is fairer, which is more socially fair, which is in the interest of citizens, which would be generally accepted by citizens, a proposal that would not mean firing workers, a proposal that would not mean freezing wages and pensions, a proposal that would not mean abolishing social giving, a proposal that would not mean abolishing aid to farmers, should come out with such a proposal. The proposal will always be acceptable to the SPS parliamentary club. When it comes to the concrete proposals we are talking about today, they should first and foremost put order into public finances and I think it is the interest of all relevant political parties in Serbia. They need to prevent what has been said many times today, which is financial bankruptcy, the financial collapse of the state. They should make it impossible for Serbia to reach the so-called. Greek script. They should enable us to survive and the budget to be liquid. What is important for the SPS parliamentary club, therefore, during the economic crisis there is no layoff of workers and that is very precise and clear, there is no freezing of wages, there will be no problem in paying wages and pensions, and the growth of wages and pensions will be in line with the economic strength, with the economic opportunities of the budget. There's something else I want to say, and that's what I've already said, that this budget is one reality, one real picture. What does this real picture and this reality tell us today? We need to save more, and that is the single position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we need to spend just as much as necessary and as much as necessary. The government's orientation of the Republic of Serbia is clear – saving priority during the economic crisis. This can be seen very clearly through the suggestions we are talking about during these three days. But not to save citizens, and that is a clear orientation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because unfortunately, citizens' living standards today are not at an envious level, but saving at state level is a priority. Unnecessary costs of the state are reduced, agencies are abolished, non-necessary directorates, whose existence is not necessary, more than 130 taxes, taxis and taxes that have been a major burden for Serbia's economy as well as for the citizens. There is a minimal increase in some taxes and excise duties, but all in agreement, in social talks, social dialogue with employers and union representatives in Serbia. Of course, it is not correct to talk and tell citizens, to talk about saving and that in some public enterprises, public services, we have salaries that are ten to 15 times the average earnings in Serbia. We fully support the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to limit the maximum or highest profit in public services. One of the priorities of the proposal that we are talking about today is the standard of living of citizens and that is absolutely logical. So, support for those who do not have at this time, the most socially vulnerable, those who need help most, the most socially endangered categories of the population, pensioners with the lowest incomes, below 15,000 dinars. There won't be an end to social giving. They'll be consistent with fiscal space. The positive side of these legislative proposals, i.e. concrete rebalancing and a set of accompanying legislative proposals, is also a positive response to problems in the area of agriculture. The agricultural recovery minister made it very clear a few days ago, and this is very positive and very good, that all subsidies in the area of agriculture will be paid during this year and that in the coming financial year, after a long period of time, therefore, in the coming year, all subsidies in the area of agriculture will be entered without a single dinar of debt to agricultural producers. We, of course, welcome and accept it. As repeatedly said, the crisis is not solved by popular but by necessary measures. Savings at the state level should and must be priority because it's impossible to save where there isn't, saving where there is. In this context, we fully support the government's position and the government's thinking in the direction of shutting down certain agencies, directorates, which have no purpose, which are not necessary at this time, but what we want to say about this, before a final decision is made when it comes to individual agencies and directorates, is that some of these agencies and directors had their own purpose and essence of existence. Some of these directives, such as the Directorate for Reconstruction and Development and Rehabilitation of Objects in the territory of the Kolubar County, which was destroyed in a devastating earthquake that the Kolubar District hit even in 1998, had a purpose of existence, had a clear goal of resuscitating everything that nature unfairly took away from the citizens of the Kolubar district. 13 years after the establishment of the Directorate, and 14 years after the devastating earthquake that took place in the Kolubar district, we are talking about the abolition of the Directorate, but not the completion of the complete recovery and restoration of houses and facilities that were destroyed in that devastating earthquake. Our suggestion is next. Respecting the government's stance on rationalisation, when it comes to saving, when it comes to shutting down certain agencies and directives that are not necessary, or whose existence is not necessary, we only point out the suggestion to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to create a legal obligation to complete a complete recovery and renewal and put an end to this extremely important issue for the citizens of the Kolubar County. We agree, unless there is a district directorate, that reconstruction can certainly go through local self-government, i.e. municipal and city directorates, as it was done in 1998, so until the period until the district directorship was established. Finally, I want to say that we believe that, with all the negative effects, with the difficulties of the economic crisis, the government will confirm these proposals to deal successfully with the problems and to keep those main and economic and financial and budgetary parameters within the framework of very clear and precise defined and set objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1949	The word is Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1950	The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, when it comes to budget rebalancing, is then to be discussed about the country's economic strength. To that end, let me compare some economic indicators that have inevitably affected the budget rebalance we have today. I didn't mean to take my word for it, but I was offered by a Mr. Former Prime Minister who, here, just walked into this room. To that end, I must remind him that in 2008, his government was planning a dynamic growth in economic activity, i.e. average growth in economic activity of 7% per year, and this means that today the real level of economic activity should be 30% rather than 2008. The former government scored 10 times lower. In order to maintain high current consumption, she sacrificed investments and thus undermined the stability of the country's development. Furthermore, the current level of production is only two fifths of the pre-transition period. The real sector of the economy is exhaling. The former government tried to make up for its incompetence by mass borrowing, under extremely difficult and unfavourable conditions. The previous government of Mr Cvetkovic has just introduced our country into a cycle of dramatic growth of over 50, but 58 per cent for me. Serbia's public debt by only four last years has been increased by six billion euros and thus we have exceeded the legal limit of borrowing and brought the country to the brink of bankruptcy. Employment growth, they planned to increase unemployment by up to 12% in 2008, bringing it to 25%, among the highest unemployment rate, Mr Cvetkovic, in Europe. Any further reduction of labour-active people in our country leads the country into disaster. The Serbian Progressive Party has not participated in this act. Secondly, you planned to increase your standard of living. Instead, you've led to a drastic decline in living standards, so that the actual fall of standards is going from about 30% during your term of office. By inflation, we are now leaders in Europe. We have the most unstable currency in Europe. For your former government, the dinar has weakened by 48%. The Serbian Progressive Party did not participate in the act either. The most tragic act of the former government is the deception of young Serbs, by promising them employment, solving housing problems, to prevent them from going abroad. Instead, you pushed them out in very large percentages. The Serbian Progressive Party did not participate in the act. You promised media freedom. Instead, you achieved media darkness, the greatest in Serbia's history. In the field of media, we have achieved only four of the 27 European standards in your government, Mr Cvetkovic and SNS did not participate in the act. In the judiciary, you promised reforms as a pillar of the country's legal and political system. Instead, you destroyed the judiciary. I quote the EU assessment "very bad". The Serbian Progressive Party did not participate. Furthermore, education and science. Instead of European frameworks, you took us to Africa. Just one example. By European standards at one million, one university. We have 19 universities today. During your government, a new nine has been opened. The Serbian Progressive Party did not participate in the act. You drove us from schools, institutions, all possible parenting homes, and even from this congregation, and you brought millions to our school. Energy sector, one sentence. You announced 2,008, year, quote – improvement. You have led the sector to become a narrow throat of Serbia's development and the sector has been affected by corruption of unprecedented proportions. We're importing energy today, instead of exporting it. The Serbian Progressive Party, Mr Cvetkovic, did not participate in the act. The pensions were planned to grow, and today, during your government, we have 55% of the pension dinar to fill in through new borrowings. KIM, two sentences. You never asked for Resolution 1244. Three things. First, to return 1,000 Serbian soldiers and police officers to Kosovo. Secondly, if you hadn't asked to control the KIM airspace and control the borders. I must point out that even before your government, two ministers visited all the countries around the world to make an effort to prove that Kosovo is not ours under the resolution. Allow me, you're accusing today's government. You've held back the debt for a billion and 200 million dollars. You've led the country to bankruptcy. I'm accusing you here, Mr. Cvetkovic, that you were the leader of this collapse for four years, not to say criminal enterprise. In the end, let me say that the intended funds for refugees and displaced persons are as they are and they are insufficient, but the SNS today believes that the most endangered part of this population, which, in addition to having experienced a tragedy of war, is in some way suffering the greatest burden of the economic crisis, because it threatens him in some way until its destruction. Finally, there is no country's economic progress without breaking corruption and crime. This vicious phenomenon has gripped all the pores of Serbian society, destroying our country. Unfortunately, it was the most contributed by your government, Mr Cvetkovic, which is why fighting crime and corruption is the basic motto of our survival as states and nations. To this end, I call on all Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of the parliamentary commitment, and party, to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and particularly the Coordinator in the Government, Mr Alexander Vukic, to insist on fighting corruption because this is what the people expect of us and this is a condition for the country's further economic progress. Secondly, to accept the budget rebalancing, because this is the only way to finally stop this economic downturn from the next 2013, and I call on the government and all ministers to make an effort to implement the laws to the maximum in our country, and us, MPs, regardless of the party's commitment, to control the government to contribute to the transparent work of this assembly as Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic has announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1951	Thank you, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1952	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 106 and 107. The previous esteemed fellow MP did not stick to the agenda, you did not interrupt him in that sense and you violated the Rules of Procedure and not only that, but he also addressed the MP DS directly, thereby infringing the dignity of this assembly. Therefore, I ask you to react in this situation in the future, and unfortunately, this is not the first time this has happened. I would ask you, given that other MPs are agile in pointing out such violations that this is not read as our evil intention, but simply an effort to stick to the point of order, and you will agree that even now, when the presentation of the Government is clearly strengthened, that we can continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1953	Thank you, the next MP is Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1954	Thank you to the Honorable Presidency, honourable government representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues, MPs, as colleagues from my parliamentary club have already stated, we said that this budget rebalance was actually just an attempt to fix something. As my Zlatibors say - there are no repairs, just to do it again, and I think this is the time to talk and give some proposals and suggestions for the 2013 budget, because after that comes to our agenda, it will certainly be too late. You'll allow me, I'm here among the new MPs. This is my first call, and I may have missed something in this budget itself, i.e. budget rebalancing, which is the parallel columns of the budget and budget rebalances. It's been hard to track all this. That's how we do it in local self-government. I don't think that's a bad practice. We're full of transparency. Well, let's apply that sometimes. I would agree with the part about public debates, citizens who are full of the Republic of Serbia's budget must know and again in some way give their proposals, suggestions, how this budget should be spent. Of course, I think it will be better and more efficient for both the government and the state, and I think the budget would certainly be better quality. A few days ago, I was discussing the subject of this previous set of laws, and it's a general impression, when I look at all this, that the greatest burden of the crisis is actually going to be the afternoon of small local self-government, i.e. municipalities and small cities. I don't think removing these certain taxis in the economy is gonna God know what to save. They'll probably pay the same, but these local self-governments will certainly have a lot of problems, because municipalities come into a situation that they won't have the means to live on and to function. It's very important that you know that at a time of this crisis, I don't know how much you might be getting that data, but it's very difficult and the state isn't investing, i.e. education, health care, etc., they don't invest at all in local self-government because there are no funds, and the municipality to be able to work, it just has to invest in school infrastructure, in facilities, it has to invest in healthcare in appliances in these homes of health, the opening of rural hospitals, etc. It's simple, if we think that people live in these small environments, which is our tendency, we go towards decentralisation, even regional development, etc., in fact, the idea is normal to try to keep the school in these places, keep the home of health, etc., and all our own resources, because the state doesn't give it away. It's a similar thing with fire departments, police units. It invests in municipalities, local self-government, the city itself, if they think it provides, that they have quality protection in rebuilding and police units, all in buying from tables and chairs to computers, vehicles, etc., in building buildings. It's also about fire departments, because it's really necessary. We've had fires in the past, where the fire took half Tara, half of Zlatibor. If local self-government can't rely on its local resources, then it's a really big problem, and lately because of the crisis and all sorts of other things, simply local self-government has been forced to finance it out of their budgets, and they're funding it, and yet some taxes are being abolished, etc., so I think it's a really big problem for local self-government, for small municipalities and smaller cities, and I'm asking you to really plan for the 2013 budget, pay attention to these things. As for the infrastructure itself, in the rebalancing of the budget, I looked only at those parts where the, I don't know, railways, Serbian roads, large loans that were taken to reconstruct the railways, to buy cars, etc. I just didn't notice that our railroad was improved. The situation is catastrophic. In every modern country, the railway works perfectly. It's the best, safest, most efficient way to transport passengers. I don't think that much money has been spent, and we haven't seen any effect. It's a similar thing with roads, airports, etc., since I think that the Government of the Sea, or the RES, must pay attention to that infrastructure and, of course, to that air traffic, and not just to Belgrade Airport, but here, for example. at this Ponicve Airport, which we are in the Goldibor area very interested in working properly. It must surely be found as one of the priorities of the government, because it is extremely important that in this part, both because of exports, so because of the development of the economy and agriculture, tourism, etc., the airport works. What is very important, it is a system-based solution to the problem by setting priorities when identifying the funds in the budget. It must be precisely and clearly meant which are local, which are regional, which are national projects and what the state invests in from its budget. In the previous period, we have witnessed that political resemblance was the basic criterion for funding certain projects. We've come into a situation where small municipalities, for example. The municipality of Ceetin could not come to the project ranking at the Environmental Protection Fund, e.g. Energy Efficiency Agency, etc. All in all, I'd be interested, and now that we've somehow managed to get somewhere, if we could be considered as a wastewater treatment facility, I'd be interested to know what's going to happen to that fund, or that money, and whether these projects are going to be funded at all. Light motive for the future budget should be decentralisation and strengthening local self-government, as it must pay attention to local self-government, those smaller units that make up the big system. Setting clear goals and priorities in funding projects is extremely important, I repeat once again. You need to form a commission, a professional body that will define what is a priority for realisation. As for the previous period, the reconstruction of the local road in a village was financed from the pair of the Republic of Serbia, for example. do not finance some more serious regional projects that are important or well written just because some municipality is not politically similar. So, in the next period, I expect that some of these proposals will be respected, because local self-government is important that we let those successful municipalities do what is right, and the ministry, the government, has to make a good environment through positive legal regulations and investment primarily in regional infrastructure, to enable them to develop as best and as high as possible. I think we need to deal with a little more production, new industrialization, domestic economy support through the export bank, the development bank, the intervention fund to help major economic systems. I suggest you take a look at the DSS's economic program, where we've explained it all. All we need to do is leave their income to local self-government to invest in regional infrastructure. (President: You're out of time. I repeat once again, only a strong local self-government represents a strong state and only when we understand it will we be able to move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1955	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milvan Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1956	I am impressed by the unprecedented ease of forgetting, which today, criticising budget rebalancing, is being demonstrated by individual opposition MPs. This is not what we wanted to be in the budget rebalancing, but our extorted response, which was created in the face of facts and data that we received from the previous regime. The Serbian Progressive Party has no time to deal with what part of the responsibility it holds from former regime coalition partners for this condition. The Serbian Progressive Party is the strongest party in the country. We've got the highest trust of citizens. Citizens expect two key things from us – to create conditions for a better life for them, to serve this budget rebalance and to say who robbed Serbia. We'll do it. The budget rebalancing is a necessary reform of the public sector towards balancing budget revenues and expenditure, asking to start with the situation inherited from the previous government. I would just point to a few data, to see why the budget rebalance, as proposed, was proposed in this way, to see that there was no other way out, that it was the only way to prevent the worst, bankruptcy of the state. First, the huge increase in unemployment in the economic sector, so that unemployment totalled 555,000 in the economic sector, and a total of over 400,000, and thus a basis for public income formation, i.e. taxes and contributions. The unemployed, the ones to be recorded, are 833,000. The number of pensioners has increased by 600,000. Every year, the number of pensioners increased by 35,000, while the number of employees decreased by 50 to 70,000. Can a social system like this hold up? Already, pensions are covered with 50% of other budget revenues. We currently have 1,700,000 pensioners, whose numbers are growing faster than the number of employees. Now the pensioner's ratio and the number of employees is almost 1:1. So, for one company employee, who chokes on indifference and is further strangled by the total and expensive loans of banks, the over-indebted debt of high tax liabilities, two pensioners, two supported up to 15 years of age and one unemployed. It's five supported by one employee, 105,000 of whom are irregularly receiving salaries, and it's an inherited condition from the previous government. The actual unemployment rate is not 24% or is 27.5% registered, but is almost 30% and highest in Europe. Certainly the result worthy of praise, apparently, for the former regime. Social assistance is receiving 834 thousand people. Over two million people survive below 200 euros a month. Out of the total number of pensioners, over 990,000 receive less than 22,000 dinars and over 227,000 receive up to 11,450 dinars. With income below 15,000 lives 571 thousand citizens. There's 140,000 on the minimal. With no salary, he's working about 105,000 formal employees. The social picture of society, which has been created over the past 10 years and which has had the most impact on this offered budget rebalance, is frightening. The average salary covers 38% of consumer baskets. The pension ratio to the average salary fell from 74% in 2001 to only 54% in 2011. Pensions have fallen realistically between 5% and 8% a year for the third year. Now they have to increase from a slow rate of 2%, with an inflation rate of about 10%. Only 19% of the company regularly settles profits. The picture is clearer when it is seen that in the total incomes of Serbia's households, earning only 40%, pensions 34.2%, figures 6%. That, gentlemen, is, among other things, the inherited state and, on these grounds, a rebalancing of this budget has been made. The previous government was almost helpless and allowed the philosophical and uncontrollable movement, especially the explosion of public expenditure, which is now revealed as a bitter truth. In order to finance the budget deficit, even regular public expenditures, the almost uncontrolled government was in debt. Tax and contribution charges fell from 94% before 2000 to 37 to 43% so far. The biggest problem, however, is the accumulation of interest obligations and the burden of interest. We are left with the selected model of increasing the previous side of the budget in as little fiscal burden as possible for the economy and the population, but a very selective cost-restriction, to now preserve the necessary social function of the budget and its control role. As I would say, a recovery proposal for budget rebalancing should be supported, but as a transitional and now possible solution and a way to avoid bankruptcy of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1957	Thank you. The word is Ljiljana Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1958	Thank you. Madam Chairman, ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, the first thing I want to notice when it comes to the draft budget rebalancing law is that, in the light of this law, the causes of difficulties, in the economy and in the public finances, therefore, in Serbia, which have been particularly reflected, and this is more apparent, in the fall of GDP. It is said: "The situation is due to the global crisis and the slowdown of economic and external economic activity in the euro area and the countries of the region as Serbia's most important partners in the area of trade and investment." It adds: "the situation in the economy has further made it difficult for the unfavourable weather conditions in February and droughts, which have conditioned a major annual decline in agricultural production". With this explanation of the economic situation in the country, anyone objective would agree, because it is something that is well known to citizens, that we are part of this major global economic crisis and anyone with little professional honor would also agree that not only Serbia but the whole world is in serious economic and financial problems. That's why I really don't understand the need for very difficult words, mentioning bankruptcy, black images to be intimidated by the public. Serbia is far from such a situation. If the DS were to lead the government, and it would normally, certainly, before the new government, come here with a proposal for rebalancing, given these economic movements that the malts are changing dramatically. Secondly, what I want to point out is, on such economic and financial occasions, it's very difficult for every government, and for the one we've run, and for this government, to make budget projections, assessing, and that's the main parameter, how GDP is going to move. The GDP movement assessment was carried out by the previous government, the IMF, other competent institutions, the NBS; the Republic Statistics Institute, and they all had their projections on GDP developments to correct almost every quarter. Unfortunately, GDP has not grown, or has grown by a smaller degree than anticipated. He was overrated in all those projections. In reality, the most direct consequence of such a GDP movement is that your deficit, the one planned for the budget, is increasing. Everyone knows that. He doesn't have to be an economic expert. The one who claims someone was covering up the deficit data is, to say the least, incorrect and malicious. The government is now proposing a rebalancing, starting with some projection of what will happen to GDP. It stems from the projection that it will be less by 0.5% and thus determines the budget, including the size of the deficit. I'm asking you, gentlemen of the ruling majority, I don't have the opportunity of the Minister of Finance to ask you this question – what if the GDP drop is not only 0.5%, should we then accuse you of covering up the data, distracting the public, faked, committed a criminal act of concealing data, what are you doing these days, because you're scaring, threatening, running an unspeakable campaign, and the whole public sees it? I don't want to go in, it's not an opportunity here, for all the reasons why the finance minister behaves like this, but one is obvious. It is necessary to criminalise the previous government, show the situation worse than it is, and then take over the role of a major public finance savior in Serbia. In order for someone to take such a serious thing and take it seriously, then the facts should also be a little falsified and arbitraryly interpreted, manipulated by them. You're saying the budget deficit at the end of the year would be 235.4 billion. Our assessment, but more importantly, of the fiscal council's estimates say that's not true, because they say the deficit would be 216 billion, or 6.7% of GDP. There are different methodologies, different excuses, I'd say they're thin, why they resort to this kind of counterfeiting, but I think this incorrect display of the previous government's deficit needs first of all to be covered up by the truth, that it doesn't come to the public, that the budget rebalance proposed contains a larger deficit. So 222 billion, or 6.7% of GDP. Or, according to the Fiscal Council, this is what, however, the finance minister of the economists and probably is in pain of this assessment, the credibility of the entire fiscal consolidation programme, can be compromised because the government's first step is to increase rather than reduce the deficit. In one word, I agree with the estimates that were heard from our parliamentary group, less damage would be done to the state of Serbia and its public finances, not to touch the budget, not to rebalance, because this way we only have a bigger deficit. It's the first thing that wants to hide, and this is very sharp. It's a really inappropriate communication that the finance minister has with the MPs, first of all, our parliamentary group. Another thing that should also be covered up through those big words and making noises, because that's what the finance minister is trying to do, in fact, the government's intention to essentially cut wages and profits through inflation. Publicly, the mouth is full of concern for employees and pensioners - it is difficult, a modest growth of 2%. In the end, it was pre-election promises, and in fact, as economists who know so much about it, it counts on inflation that will actually reduce the cost of earnings and pensions, and that the government remains faithful to its pre-election promises. So that's the second fact that he's trying here, through the attacks of the previous government, to hide from the public. The third fact, which should also be covered up, is that the finance minister does not hold at all to decentralisation and strengthening local self-government. Remember, as a member of our government, he's done a lot of force here, and I've debated a lot here, to push through the fiscal decentralisation law, to make that first big hole in the 50 billion dinar budget, but that was the pre-election story. It now abolishes many of the original revenues of local self-government. What is most important – it centralizes all resources and they will all have to come to him at the Ministry of Finance on the fine. That's what hurts the most, he'll share the money. So, the public needs to know, the deficit is higher, pensions and salaries will be lower, and Minister Dinkic will deliver only one promise, at least what he has made public, he will manage all finance in Serbia. So the rebalance is bad. You better not touch him and expect us not to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1959	Thank you. The word is Verica Kalanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1960	There are a lot of objections to budget rebalancing, and they are also spoken of by those who submit them to this National Assembly, by MPs. Dear gentlemen, we don't deserve those of us sitting here, and above all, the viewers of our Assembly and our citizens, to present such abuses at the expense of the proposed rebalancing. Madam Members of the People are talking about fiscal decentralisation, about 500 million euros, 50 billion dinars, so you said, or in which currency you expressed yourself I can't remember. You're talking about that these are the funds that you've been up against to allegedly go back to local self-government. Let me remind you, these are the funds of the salary tax earned in these municipalities that remain at the place where they were earned on the proposal from the U.S.S. You pass a little angle of view. The consolidated budget remains the same. There will be less than 50m euros in the central register. There will be no 50, Mr Cvetkovic is across from you and he knows very well that it is not 50m euros but something below 40m euros or 33.2 billion in this year, which is committed to local self-government. Think about it – could local self-government have functioned without these funds that we once abolished by an administrative decision a few years ago when the central register began to empty? No, they couldn't work with either heating, or water, or pay, or anything. Now you're talking about Mr Dinkic wanting to centralise their original incomes. That's not true either. With his proposal, Minister Dinkic wants to limit taxes on the economy that fills the budget and the central and local registers. In that way, the tax on entrepreneurs and small businesses is deleted. These taxes burdened the work of the economy. You're talking about a high unemployment rate. Of course, if we impose such burdens on the economy, it is clear that those who are working at this time will be reduced. You're talking about Minister Dinkic wanting to be a finance master. No, he wants to control and manage public finances as a good economist and that's the role of finance minister. Of course he won't make a budget deficit of 7%. Of course he won't make a public debt of 55%. They'll manage public finances. In my opinion, it's his primary task to trust this government. When we talk about facts, let's talk about facts, but let's not twist them. Neither who wants to take into the Republic of Serbia's budget fees from local self-government, nor any original income from local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1961	Thank you. The word is Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1962	I said the next thing, this is where the law was passed. About that law, as an MP, I said everything I thought, and above all the negative effects of such a law. The fact that this law left part, therefore, of income tax to local self-government for me was cynical because in many small, undeveloped municipalities there was nothing to be left with them. Those revenues were small. We know which of them profited. So that law did not follow some law that would pass on some jurisdiction to those who now have higher incomes. All the effects of this law, at least according to the fiscal council's findings, have gone to an increase in the number of employees. Today you roar about how many people are employed in local self-government. It's a direct consequence of that one law. What I mean is, very openly, often or almost every government pays a high price to coalition governments. Mine, after the experience I have, to say -- make sure you don't pay, to make a coalition government, is priced so much that it threatens Serbia's budget and citizens. That was my intention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1963	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1964	Thank you. This last remark by our Member is not about Mrs Kalanovic, but about the distinguished Mr. Vukic. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that in today's day of brilliant and sensational appointments we are discussing the agenda point. We said a lot yesterday about all this and without wanting to go into too much detail, since during yesterday we said a lot, and not wanting to copy here an unnamed MP who pleads to be the director of the Department of Statistics. I'm just saying that this savings on citizens, instead of in the state, is through a realistic reduction in wages and pensions this year and next, since the increase in pensions and salaries is 2% significantly less than inflation. It's definitely in the inflational direction, as far as this rebalancing proposal is concerned. This reduces the standard for over two million pensioners, soldiers, educators, health and other workers who have been guaranteed by law so far. Total expenditures are 92 billion or 10% higher than the existing budget. That's a fact. So it is clear that the stories of savings were pure marketing. It's also a fact. No matter what you say now, and that we were the worst in the world, and we weren't the worst, we were punished for it, Mrs. Kalanovic. Now you have to explain it to us if this isn't true. That's the facts. The structure of budgetary expenditures is an even bigger problem, as capital investments are reduced, which are the biggest driver of business activities and employment, and subsidies and supply of goods and services have been increased. We have proposed through amendments that the subsidy process be done in a completely transparent way before the Finance Committee and individually. I hope you adopt him. I say this well-intentioned. As part of the government's activities behind you. Mladjan Dinkic is the most responsible for the poor position of public finances, as his measures directly led to a deficit increase, through, now that I am a statisticist, an unrealistic salary increase of state officials by more than 30% in 2006 and 2007, including mine because I am also a civil servant, who is financed from the sale of "Mobtel" and state banks, the irresponsible spending of discretionary expenditures within the NIP. Otherwise, Tristenik and Loznica were best passed within the NIP, and in the entire APV for two million inhabitants, you only predicted one project by Mrs Kalanovic, the already famous advance in Sombor for which no money was ever received. The subsidies for economic, tourism and employment and their irresponsible spending, where in 2011, alone, over 55 billion dinars were available, while the agriculture budget was only 20 billion dinars, which means almost three times more.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1965	Mr. Stefanovic, just a moment ago, you warned me that I had violated the Rules of Procedure because...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1966	Explaining the deficit.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1967	No, you don't stick to the budget, or the rebalance for this year, but you remind us of 2006 and 2007, so go back to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1968	All right, I accept that, but I'm obliged to explain how the deficit occurred, since other MPs explained pretty superficially how the deficit occurred, so I tried to bring order here. The fiscal decentralisation law, which alone increased the country's deficit by more than 30 billion dinars annually or about one per cent of GDP. This is a bad rebalancing, and we can't support it. Neither does Mr Dinkic, who said this is a bad rebalancing. He's not even supported by the Fiscal Council. He doesn't even support the public. They don't support him either. I don't understand how we can support him. Mr. Vukic's arrival at the session has ruined the concept of my speech, because I wanted to say that there is a visible lack of government solidarity on this issue, that only one party is present, and the smallest in the coalition. That's why I want to say the best in that sense. The deficit is definitely increasing and VAT is increasing and inflation is going. It is not clear why the finance ministry's budgets, the Ministry of Defence and even the defence department's budgets have been increased. Why is the foreign ministry's budget increased for the amount we could dream of during this evil Mirko Cvetkovic? Based on what and what costs? Is it based on 19 diplomats in our embassies who can't produce more than 250 telegrams a month, any honor with exceptions? Is it a savings that the respected director of the KIM office immediately employs 20 new people in the office or his trip with Minister Mrkic to Tehran at the Summit of Unclassified? When asked why, which is a legitimate question, not maliciously, Mr. Vulin says – for ideological reasons. Should the state finance ideological reasons or should we agree in Tehran on subsidising the budget of local self-government on KIM or heating for winter? That's a fact. She doesn't want to, Mrs Kalanovic, it's my colleague's mistake, that she manages finance in Serbia, he's already doing it. The desire doesn't exist, it's achieved. It's the only constant of our policy. I thank you and I am sorry that he is not here because he would thank him, because Mr Dinkic has definitely confirmed that he is a cohesion factor of DS. It's a private observation now. In that sense, I must also remind myself as a man who comes from the APV that the fact that this rebalancing is not predicted by the Constitution envisioned 7% for APV. It would be good to hear from you, Mrs Kalanovic, some clarification, given that it is a constitutional category, whether or not someone likes it, as it is true, and there is a golden thread that connects me and the honourable MP, I will not appoint you because of the replica, which is KIM, as you cannot know whether someone has asked for the fulfillment of Resolution 1244 or not, and I am telling you that it is, over ten times officially. Now we have a chance to see how this new government is going to make it come true, and you know it's not going to happen, because the focus is completely different. You're on a bad track, sir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1969	The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1970	I asked for a replica, so there wouldn't be any doubt, which is why I answered my word. I will try to answer in a serious and responsible way, and I will not mention the cohesion factors and everything else that seems to me to be used to cheer up the audience by small screens. So, as for sensational appointments and the mockery you're trying to make all day in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I want to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that in the most important, and in that company that served you to suck out the money, that company that you've eaten as much as you could in the previous period, today is at the head of the company, even temporarily until the competition, for the first time in Serbian modern history, a man who is not a member of any party, a completely impartial person, a man from the Telekom system, a man who has 18 years of working experience in telecommunications and a man who we believe won't allow Telekom, as it was in your time, to become a party front. I just want to point out to you the fact that certain information is selectively placed, and you keep quiet about everything else. As for other sensational appointments, today was a sensation, but I mean in a good sense, it was the replacement of the head of the negotiating team, but no one was put in place as head of the negotiating team, except that we've identified the person who worked for you and who will continue the technical dialogue, nothing more. I hope you don't mind your associates this morning. As for the foreign ministry, in which you worked, the foreign ministry needs much more money, but not to spend the way it was spent in your time, which is shameful, which is creepy and about which Serbian citizens need to know much more than they know today. It's -- how much did the plane tickets cost in your period, who went on all the trips, through which agencies and whose relatives you took those tickets, how did the ministers drive around the white world, if it's possible to use the plane to talk and say the verb drive? So if you have any similar objections to us today, I'd like you to tell us. I personally went on several trips, used and paid for the economic class card, always in, I think, a modest and decent way. I would like more of those who have been saying today that no one in the government supports budget rebalancing, that in the government everyone is prepared to blame someone else, because we don't like to hide behind anyone else's backs, the rebalancing is being extorted, extorted by the catastrophic situation in which Serbia is, but if you think anyone in Serbia believes that this disastrous situation is the product of our work in 45 days, trust me that no one trusts you, or even your voters, and the number of these voters has fallen so dramatically in these 45 days. You don't seem to have the patience to listen and hear a different opinion or worry about something else. I think this is something else. I want to point out to you the fact that at this point, you've already lost a quarter of your voters, the people who have shown you trust, and we've won a quarter more. Watch only whom people will trust and whether false politics can be made and whether the future in our country can be built on untruths. As far as we're concerned, we're going to work fairly, and we're going to count all the money that someone's put out for certain things, both us and you. You can, I ask you and now, point out any abuse the government has made and I will immediately congratulate you on that and say that I am guilty and say that I will answer, or I or anyone else. If you don't have it, then don't, as a god, ask us to call and remind us of what some others have done, and that reminds me more and more of the kind of auto projection we hear every day from some of the other politicians in this country. To those who gave us a lecture all day, about what disunity there is in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, how we've brought bad rebalancing, as soon as they've told us their story, everyone's left this room, I just want to say it would be good to have them come and hear the other side of what they're thinking, and not just tell us their remarks, while they can see themselves on a little screen here and enjoy their picture, and then I guess they're running to Akonkagu or I don't know where they seem to have better things to do. We will be with our people, and we will also be with our political opponents who we will always be ready to respond to, and we will give them the opportunity to answer to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1971	Thank you. Janko Veselinović, after the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1972	Article 106 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of the speaker, refer to both ministers and deputy prime ministers, can only talk about the item of the agenda under investigation. The previous speaker, the deputy prime minister, did not speak on the agenda, and the truth is, when it comes to counting DS MPs, the SNS parliamentary group was on the fingers of one hand these days could count how many were in the hall when Minister Dinkic sat there. Now they've probably gathered on a phone text message, as the future came to them, probably the party's president whose victory is likely to be tight. But in any case, the chairman, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. I do have a tolerance for you. The chairman has been injured by the Rules of Procedure, and you have not warned the speaker that he is in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't do this anymore, because we've tolerated it for two days, or you've tolerated your boss, Mr. Dinkic, when he's instead of telling the MPs here, of course, he's the only one who spoke and brought us to a deep night when we could take the word when no one listens to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1973	I don't agree with you that I tolerated my boss as you said speaking. Minister Dinkic spoke in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 96. He had the right to speak indefinitely, and that's exactly what happened. So it wasn't about tolerance. It was about respect for the Rules of Procedure. The word is Alexander Vukitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1974	He's got Borko Stefanovic towards me. I'm sorry, I think he was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1975	I'm sorry, Mr. Markovic is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1976	So, please, we've all advocated, we've still remembered the times before that we correctly cooperated with the facts today on a joint job. Member 106, and that is why Mr. Veselinović pointed to your tolerance, because you have neither interrupted nor punished him. In fact, Article 106 says - no one can interrupt the speaker or warn him except the president of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in these circumstances. During the speech of the MP or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with the speaker in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. Since you gave your word after the presentation of the previous speaker to whoever had thrown before and tried to break up the speaker, it would have formally been broken by the Rules of Procedure, but I suppose this is in the spirit of protecting freedom of speech, not calling ourselves how it leads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1977	Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1978	Thank you. I think in this situation, Mr. Vukic and I are in some way acting in an election campaign. We have a party situation that needs to be resolved soon, and you obviously still have a campaign within the government. I can't explain this constant reminder of things that don't exist and aren't brought out here at all. Mr. Vucicou, when you were talking about a money sucking company, I thought you were talking about Galenica, and then when you said it was Telecom, then I realized it was a business that is one of the few public enterprises in Serbia that is extremely positive, it's a positive business. I don't see why they keep calling you. Well, at least you have direct communication with the prosecution. Well, you know how to do that. I don't know, I don't understand the need for media to keep announcing something. You're doing your job by me well. We support you in the fight against organised crime and corruption, and that's what we told you. Who in Serbia can say differently? If there are these people, they're the ones who did these things, but then I don't see the need to throw these at the National Assembly. I think that's where we agree. Otherwise, it's not spectacular my shift, you just hit it. It's spectacular that a man who was the secretary of the negotiating team is coming, and that's a positive thing, we supported it. This is a member of the Democratic Party. I mean, publicly, that's the most positive thing that could have happened to me. It's a technical dialogue. Things will be resolved on a political level as well. Otherwise, as far as embarrassing spending within the foreign ministry is concerned, the same thing. If there were such situations, here you go, find out, regulate, but don't let them repeat themselves now in the current MIP, which is not working. You know why? Because it's time someone in Mrkic's government made the minister go somewhere. You seem literally to understand the austerity measures. Well, you still need a man to go, someone to talk to. I think we agree here. The fact is that DS, it's not correct to say things about the percentage in one of the polls that hasn't been checked in that sense. You know what polls look like after the election. These things change for a while. Well, we've been leading 6% in those polls in front of you, and you know what happened next. That's the tricky stuff. You don't need to get involved in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1979	It's been two minutes. Minister, Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1980	First of all, thank you for caring for the SNS Assembly and for how it will pass. I don't know if it's gonna be tight and who's gonna win. Certainly what I am sure will go through in a democratic spirit and what I hope will be, whether or not it will be, is that the SNS will be successful in the next period and I am much more important in the result that we will give to the people and citizens of Serbia than I will personally, or that some of my colleagues will feel if they win and become SNS president at that assembly. I'm not going to tell you about the situation in your party and who's going to win with and how many votes. It's just, I'd feel bad, I'd look unserious. So, as far as the words about the presence of MPs are concerned. I didn't count you, you didn't get it right, I was talking about a whole other parliamentary group. Otherwise, I accept your criticism, and I will bring it to the SNS MPs on their presence in insufficient numbers last night. That criticism of mine is gonna be tough, or we're gonna change something. Whoever wants to do whatever he wants with his mandate, but if he is in the SNS, he will have to be more and more present and participate in the debates in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As for the campaign and when you talk about Galenika, I feel the same way about Galenika. You see, there's no problem in saying that. I wasn't talking about this based on the results of how much you've been beating and arguing about who's going to take up certain positions. I expected you to go out and say, it's a great honor for you to make a decision that someone is a non-partisan person in that place, as it is an honor for you to ask the foreign minister to be a non-partisan person, who, by the way, travels often, so often, that today, Mrs. Kalanovic has asked me a question at the cabinet's session, and what and where you travel so often, just to save. If it's anyone's fault, it's not Ivan Mrkic's fault, it's my fault. Because I now have twice, I should go to Cyprus, or Sarajevo. I said we'd only go to one, try to save some money and get the same result. I'm sorry if that's bad. We're invited everywhere, we're received everywhere in the world, we talk everywhere in the world, but we're looking at where we can achieve results for our country and for our people. I don't think we need tourist trips, and you know that these trips are rarely touristic, and in every government they've been. Now our country is in such a state that it can't take it anymore. That's why we need a lot more responsibility, we need a lot more seriousness. I don't have a problem with you saying any name or company or anything, anyone, me or any of my colleagues. We can always go check it out. That's why I'm asking you -- do you have somewhere to say that we went, that we spent our budget on purpose, that we abused them, that we were ossion or arrogantly acting, that you saw us with rotations to dissipate the citizens? I want to tell you one more thing. I am convinced that in the coming days we will also make a decision where citizens will be saved by those thousands of rotations that against the various people in this country are using. Believe it or not, more are being used today by your members than I do. Your former ministers. I don't want to talk about the former president, because he has a right to. The former president is the president. Once president, always president. Your former ministers use five times as many vehicles as I do, and one of your ministers eight times more than I do. So for me, one vehicle is available, for him eight, I signed those eight vehicles. And I signed it out of fear of being guilty and responsible for any security threat. But, I'm sorry, if you're asking me if it's excessive spending of people's money, I think it is. That's why I denied myself to my associates. I've been in opposition for so many years and I've always criticized the government, but I have one, you won't get angry, little advice. I was wrong every time I criticized something at all costs. People are more moderate, more measured, ordinary people, than all of us who are in politics, and they know that grades and those who do good, and those who do bad. So make sure you don't repeat my mistakes, and they weren't rare, they weren't few, and I think even for years they've been repeated, and that's that I've criticised everything political opponents would do. It seems to me that sooner you will regain the trust of the people. As far as public opinion research is concerned, I cited a public opinion survey given by the agency before the second presidential election said you had 18% of the advantage over Tomislav Nikolic. It's just so much about who this agency is rooting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1981	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1982	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1983	He has the word Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1984	If the agency claimed that we had 18% of the advantage, so it turns out we don't, and now we have 18% less, it means we're actually leading, Mr. Wolf. Otherwise, we don't criticise at all costs and repeat your mistakes. You also know very well as a longtime MP in this assembly how much strength it sometimes takes to praise the good moves of this authority, or any authority. But I think I'm the wrong address, and all the MPs here can testify from fighting organized crime and corruption, which you're leading to other things that are primarily about savings. But this rebalancing doesn't lead to it. That's a fact. I said very specific things. I'm not a cootter in my grades. Is it necessary to hire 20 people at the Kosovo Office immediately? Is it necessary to go to Tehran for a summit unclassified for ideological reasons? Those were my questions, not something indeterminate. As for rotation and protection, the more successful you are in your fight, the less those rotations will need former officials, many of whom you know, and especially you with the most security, have also resented some people who are the target of your work, Mr. Vukic. That's why we rush you to be as successful as possible. Among other things, and for those people to get a chance to live normal at last. You, Mr. Wolf, which I wish you, if you are successful in that fight, you will have 30 rotations when you leave your post. Be sure of that. It's the fate of those who enter the nest. You know that criticism doesn't go unorthodox at all, but I speak very clearly. Savings must not be made when protecting the lives of those who risked their lives and their family's life to bring security and security to the citizens of this country and rooted out crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1985	I ask the MPs to complete the circle of replicas. The word is Dragan Todorovic. Here you go. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1986	Article 107 states: "The speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." The previous speaker evidently did not respect the dignity of the National Assembly, uttering several absolute unspeakable lies, criticising in a completely unfounded way and without any association with the point of today’s agenda. So I really don't know what basis it was discussed about the possible stay of a delegation of the government of the Republic of Serbia at the summit of the unclassified and on which basis it can be linked to the budget rebalancing, because it is an act of disrespect of the National Assembly. The team, I would say, is that, like all of us in the Socialist Movement, even Mr., more specifically, you can say as you said today at the session of the KIM Committee, Comrade Alexander Vulin, for ideological reasons, I was at this conference internationally, and with a desire to welcome all those countries that have not recognised so-called "recognitions". Independent Kosovo. The same for which so many of your negotiations are linked, which have left a deep mark on the fate of all those who live today in KIM territory and who must fight the consequences that have really caused some of the things that you, as the negotiator of the government of the previous or the state of Serbia, have signed. Starting with the fact that the current government will now have to face the consequences of implementing these agreements as a consequence of the lives of all of us. For this reason, I appeal once again to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, to respect the dignity of the Republic of Serbia. To all those who think they will be able to check the results of their work, I recommend they go freely to KIM territory, there among Serbs, and see for themselves what those Serbs think of his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1987	Replica. Borislav Stefanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1988	Very short. With all my predecessor's efforts, it will be hard to reach the reach of his denominator and last name. But I just want to thank him for confirming that the government official of the Republic of Serbia went to mention the set for ideological reasons. I would understand him if he went to the Socialist International, let's say you were a member of that organization. Now, that's the abuse of state money. Otherwise, what you're saying is that someone signed something, you're missing again. No one signed anything. There are only decisions by the government of the Republic of Serbia signed by current Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. The deep trail is so deep, buddy, that this government and how it goes along that trail. That's what I wanted to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1989	He has the word Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1990	I would not react, and I will not say anything about what Mr Stefanovic told me, about me and what I think is inappropriate that game of words with the name and last name of the MP, but you are right, Mr Stefanovic, you just need to know the citizens of Serbia and you need to know the MPs, you didn't have to sign anything. The oral agreement has the power of an international contract, but it is not only oral. What is something that we don't sleep about at night, which is "integrity Boarder Management", as they popularly call it, or IBM, you put a parade on that, Mr Stefanovic, on every page of this agreement, and then since it was an election, then it was -- we won't do it and since we're the same state and we don't want to deal with who's in power or not, the Serbian government has to do it in the act, not guilty or in debt, and we're going to blame some people and part of our people for what your government did. I don't mean to blame you personally. At least I think you're personally responsible for it, but it's not nice when you say someone else was putting on a signature because Serbian citizens should know that you didn't even have to put on a parade. That would be the letter of law in international law for us. Mr. Stefanovic, you've put a paraphras on every site of the IMB. What can we do now? Do we have any other solutions? As for the journey, as God please don't talk about it. I am convinced that the ideology of Ace Vulin was to speak to those or most of those who did not recognise independent Kosovo, and such trips, as one trip to Tehran was Mr Vulin, only one of your ministers had about 375 in the previous four years, 375 to one, and then you dare to lecture us here. We accept them, thank you for that, and we'll see that it's dozens of times smaller than those 375. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1991	Please bring the end of the line. National MP Srdjan Mikovic is advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1992	Mr. Chairman, I believe there are certain obligations under Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, that the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman of the National Assembly, care for the application of this Rules of Procedure. Article 103. The Rules of Procedure define in the fifth position, since you have been called, that you have injured the Rules of Procedure by not taking away the word or warning Mr Stefanovic, and you have not declared yourself on the basis of the appearance of fellow MPs. If you feel that the injury was not done, the president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation, and if he considers it done, the President of the National Assembly is required to remove the injury done. Mr Stefanovic has been told that he did not adhere to the rules of the Rules of Procedure and that you were obliged to warn him. You have not spoken to this, and I believe that Mr Stefanovic has done nothing against the Rules of Procedure and I believe that you have done well, but you have not given an explanation to the SNS MP that he is wrong. You were still giving your word to the Deputy Prime Minister. I'm not going to go into whether you should have warned the speaker to return to the agenda theme or not to warn him to return to the agenda theme. The fact is, we'll be able to even talk about the need of our people at KIM. Here, yesterday, I was able to ask my colleague, Alexander Vulin, exactly as to the bill on whose amendment the Eparchy of Rasko-Prizren and the Kosovo-Methochian insist. He instructed me here in the hall that there was no knowledge of such an initiative, so that Mrs. Stevic could get the paper dated September 12th. Mr. Woolin's assistant director absolutely supported such a legal initiative that I have handed over here to the National Assembly. It's obvious there are things where maybe some time we don't hear it well or we don't understand it. Let's go back to those issues that concern the people, about the citizens and about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1993	I accept your remarks. You're right about the MP, I don't think the Rules of Procedure were hurt, but I let him go since he abused the Rules of Procedure, so he gave one species and replicas. But I thought we could tolerate this much tolerance here without it becoming a practice. So I'll make sure it doesn't happen in the future. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1994	Please, very serious things have been brought out here and an attempt to deceive the public, and I have to react. First, what's easier, if you compare the Director of the Office to the Foreign Minister, the affair. The foreign minister is supposed to be traveling, so he's "sex jobs." I guess we understand each other that way. I am responsibly saying that what you just said, I understand, in a political struggle, can be said, but you were the best law school student, and you know how much I appreciate you, you know what a paraphras is, and what a signature is. Paraph confirms the content of the text with the agreement and it is a technical protocol that, yes and the citizens know, has been adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Who's got my paraphras next to him? Is there anyone else on that paper? Well, there isn't, because he just confirms the truthfulness of the content and what I had the authority to do, and to sign it I didn't have the authority, it's up to the Serbian government to decide and the Serbian government will now decide. You know what great difficulties await us. If you think that was so bad and terrible and that we've done priceless damage, undo everything, throw it all under your feet. It's at least simple to do. No one's gonna say you're irresponsible. I'm sure these voters, these right-wing voters of yours, will applaud you, but you and I both know that we want good to this country and that what we've done has been achieved almost under impossible conditions, because in August we received Mrs. Merkel's ultimatum to abolish institutions in the north if you want to run for office. No institutions have been abolished, and we've won a bid. This is the only thing to measure the success of this government. Mr. Vukic, of all people, you know best and how difficult it was and how best to achieve the least bad solutions you've mentioned, and you know what's waiting for us from that point on. It's not possible that we're going to bring everything down to what the previous government did, it's incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1995	Thank you. I think we're getting a little further away from the subject. Please, let's finish this round. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1996	I'd like to point out a few things. I can't do it like this, or I may have forgotten to speak up like Mr. Stefanovic, but I want to point out a few things to you. You deceived the public, Mr. Stefanovic. In fact, you were making half-truths. You deceived the public because you didn't say that even your paraphras wasn't necessary, because the question of signature is a technical matter, because what you negotiated is an international legal contract for the Republic of Serbia. And I know it, and you know it, and everyone in this country who does this, doesn't always work easy, they know it. Then who are you cheating on? You didn't sign it, so now someone else is gonna sign it? You're not because it would be bad for you, because you'd have to start the execution right now, so it would be bad for the election. You're boasting about the candidacy? You gave everything you could for the candidacy because you needed it for the elections, not because at that moment it was so necessary. Two months later, we'd have better conditions around IBM. You're asking me what I think about it? I don't think that's nice or very good. Does any government have to meet? Well, it has to be, it's an international legal contract. I'm telling you now that we have more problems and we're going to have this deal than we're going to have with what comes after that if it comes, and it's going to be a tough conversation anyway. I didn't say for a moment that it was easy for you or anyone else. Do not talk about what you have already agreed and what has been achieved that someone else is guilty or worthy of it. I think we're acting pretty serious and pretty responsible. You don't want to hear it. It's your fault. No, but, excuse me, it's your responsibility, not any of us for that. Whether this is good for Serbia's future or not, some future generations will be judged. It's our job to respect laws, international and domestic. As far as the Government of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, it somehow seems to me that we have so many problems and that none of us will get around us, especially in October. Now, if I were to tell you how it goes on dates, until the 10th time the European Commission's report is finished, then you don't know what's the worse date for us. But that's when you want to take responsibility and show whether you can do something or not, but just please, we're not going to say it's all your fault, there are things you're responsible for, but please don't transfer to us and try to explain it to people -- yeah, you see people after 45 days there's no oil and I don't know what, we're back in the '90s. Last year, we had a two-month crisis with oil and milk and everything else, and we solved this in two days, which we weren't responsible for. Please, just with that kind of projection of the terrible state and getting back to me, I don't know what to do, just stop it. You have normal people in front of you, who will take care of their lives and their careers. Let me just finish something on the mind of what you were talking about fighting corruption. I'm asking you, if you have a name to tell me, or someone, someone from the tycoon that he has me or someone close to him in charge of anything, so we can't say his name, or that we can't do anything about him, about him, or about anything else. Let me finish. We'll be careful and we'll be careful, but not our chairs, but we'll be watching to do something for the people and for the citizens. If we can, we'll be happy and proud of it. If we can't, we'll leave. You'll get us out of here, and I hope we get out of here on our own before that. What's certainly important is that the country is in such a bad state, that some condition has to change and fix. We'll try to do it if we succeed. If we fail, some smarter people will take us and you down, because we've been very, very unsuccessful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1997	We're closing a circle of replicas. As chairman, I have the right to decide on the right to replication. Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u1998	Article 27. So, Mr. Wolfie, we don't deal with speculations that tycoon, who with whom. It deals with the press aided by your authority. We're not running away from responsibility, we're taking over. You can't say here that someone was making an international agreement, and no signatures, for an agreement to remind you of an international need for two signatures, should be ratified by the Assembly. Then either put it on ratification or confirm it's not an international agreement. I had to react because this is a serious abuse of this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2000	So please, I'll do two sentences, I'm just shocked by what you said. Mr Stefanovic, ask serious lawyers in your parliamentary group, I will tell you nothing more about it, and the other thing you're talking about is the media. What media? Gilas or Shaper, and they're all under their control. Whether I own the press, or one of your people, because I don't know, I said I'm serious, I don't want to get involved in any of this internal stuff. But however you turn one part of the media is run by one side of your party, and the other part of the media in Serbia is run by the other side of your party. And here you teach us lessons and lessons about the media. When I ask you no more, it doesn't make any sense, so it's so rude and so inappropriate, that I have nothing to say anymore. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, no matter what you say, I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2001	We're done with the replicas. The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2002	I know it was very interesting with them to follow this exchange of views, and I've been thinking for a long time whether to continue at all, but because of the seriousness of the topic mentioned, I just have to react because it's something I've heard several times from opposition MPs in this assembly. I am glad there is at least one cohesion factor in the DS, even if it is Mladjan Dinkic. I am glad that I want DS to be strong because every serious government needs a serious opposition party that will make it work as well as possible and that will criticise it with facts and seek the best possible solutions in all areas. Also, I'm used to Minister Dinkic being more of a subject of some of the laws he proposes, and I'm used to it being more about Minister Dinkic today than about budget rebalancing, just because at a time when we and DS, in our opinion, agreed best, he won every morning on the cover of the tabloids. So it's nothing new to me that I'm seeing today at the DS Parliament Club. Why did I answer that? Because the thesis is being placed here that I, who am the current minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in charge of local self-government and regional development, am not investing enough in the AP Vojvodina, because I did not do so as a NIP minister. That's the thing I have to react to, and I'm sorry that my former prime minister came out, because he could confirm what I'm talking about today. In the first year of my term in 2008, I found the NIP budget and nine billion dinars, transferred from the NIP to the AP Vojvodina budget in my term. Out of the 18.7 billion dinars spent that year from the NIP budget, nine billion and 700 million for infrastructure projects in something called the rest of Serbia, Belgrade and central Serbia, and nine billion for Vojvodina. The following 2009 from the NIP budget was financed by the first 20km highway through Vojvodina and I really don't want to hear any more here that the most money was invested in Triestenik from whom I am, or from Loznica from which I am not and in which it is invested in infrastructure development, but not at all. I believe that as a minister, I have to react whenever it comes to favouring any part of Serbia and my orientation towards any part of Serbia with greater sympathy. As a man and as a politician, I fight for equal odds. In the budget of the Republic of Serbia, I will fight for the same chances of all regions and municipalities in Serbia, and I will not allow myself to be respected that it has been invested in Vojvodina, in a draft in Somboro, because much, much more has been invested, but the truth has never been reported in what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2003	You have no basis for replication. No one's called. The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2004	Dear gentlemen, after such an inspiring act by the gentlemen of the opposition, I will make sure that the discussion I was about to discuss is changed and that I try to shed some light on, after so many spoken accusations in another way, why this is such a deficit and go back to the subject that we're all still sitting on. The institutions announced that the total public debt in the previous four years has been increased by twice, so it was increased during this previous government whose key holders are exactly DS people. They've got your bike stories. This budget is their handwriting, their creativity and their idea and face at this point, in this part of the year, there is nothing left but to preserve social elements, social components and react to the broadest social layers as all citizens would relatively calmly go through this time of crisis that we are in. I am sure that this government that started working two months ago will have the strength to carry out Serbia with its ideas, creativity in the coming year, which we expect will be better. I'd like a few sentences around that deficit right now. You know, when you grow public debt, you get too much debt. Whoever's in charge is probably thinking about making new incomes. The large public debt did not generate revenues, but brought Serbia into growing deficits because there were no incomes to pay for interest. It's less mentioned here today that we need to add another 11 billion in that rebalancing to pay interest on the bad loans we've taken. The internal debt grew because the effects of the previous government's work were fatal to the producers. Mr. Micunovic says what he wanted to say here and then he leaves. It looks like an import lobby. That import lobby is their baby. Mr. Micunovic is probably one of the creators of the people who created this long-standing image. Under their stick were tycoons, poor privatisations, and all that reflected in this moment of government. I mentioned the terms of privatisation. Not only does Serbia have its 24 difficult privatisations, each major city in Serbia has its 24 bad privatisations. Small towns don't have any more companies that work. That's what the signature of this leadership is and what the ideology of this time is. When you mentioned ideology, there was a close time from four, five months ago that we now need to report from this budget and at the end of the year to solve a number of issues, a number of funding was given to a news publishing company to fund who knows what, 500, 600 000 euros, millions of euros, credits were made for ideological reasons, and I must say that Serbia is no longer yellow. Serbia has seen and won't take any more of this. Serbian citizens have given the SNS and President Tomislav Nikolic's trust in the previous elections, and trust us with which way Serbia should go with our coalition partners. You mentioned the media. It's amazing that you control all the media. You're saying it's our media. I have a piece of paper in my hand that I was shocked to hear yesterday when I heard something like that said. I have to mention here. He says the RTS union protests. RTS gentlemen say a lost subscription is being compensated from the state budget, resulting in a crisis of revenues falling to only 30%. Well, they fell because Serbia will not pay for the DS propaganda on Serbian national television. That's why it fell. Then they comment on how we MPs deter citizens from paying their subscription. I have to say that I am the peer of this Serbian television and that we were born on the same day, the same year, but I have to say that we are completely different from how we want to see this country. This is where management and board of directors are mentioned. I didn't understand the union whether it wanted the board of directors and the director general of RTS to ask for resignation, but it's indicative, they don't mention anything about why RTS used intermediaries to negotiate advertising and why he didn't put it in his own income. The issue is to what extent is the loss of the Serbian broadcasting and broadcasting institution's income. In the end, I want to say a few more sentences. How is this crisis treated? Three factors, to me, are very important. The first is to look at the state we're in. The second is to force state authorities and institutions to drowsy around us by doing nothing and waiting for someone to forget their unhappiness. I'll just mention the tax administration. The tax administration sleeps from day to day, although unaccounted stocks on excise products are higher than the total annual production in Serbia, where there is a huge tax evasion, where only some taxpayers avoid the collection of large sums of taxes, and these legal proposals are an excellent initiative for tax directors to choose from in public competition, where local foreigners, the influence of various mafia lobbies and groups with their own interests will be avoided. In the end, let me tell you what we agreed at the Parliament Club. Since they've been taking the opportunity to talk seriously about this subject all day, we've agreed to shorten this debate, that after me MPs from our Parliament club give up and that way we can contribute back to the subject. We call on opposition MPs to respect and try to bring the government to an end in this year's business as well as to get Serbia out of the debt crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2005	Thank you. Mr. Lazic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2006	I was looking for a replica just now after Sombor was mentioned. I'm from Somobra and what Mrs. Kalanovic listed...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2007	Please, I listened very carefully to the minister. She didn't mention you personally. On that basis, you have no right to a replica. And if it were a party, since you're not the head of the parliamentary club, you also don't have the right to replicate. The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2008	I would first like to amend and supplement the Law on the Budgetary System and the Proposal for a Law on the establishment of maximum earnings in the public sector. We are talking about them in one piece, as a package, for the simple reason that I believe this was the government's attempt to in some way establish financial discipline in the public sector. In this regard, I would say, when it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, it is positive that it is trying to introduce its own revenues into the budget. In any case, it's just the beginning, since we're left with indirect users and we're left with the question why indirect users only since 2014? Why is this not resolved in two months, with the announced new budget law and another package of fiscal consolidation and consolidation measures in the public sector? When we talk about trying financial discipline in the public sector in the area of profit, I have to say that practically when you enter a segment in part, with one detail, that he can't... (President: Please move a little microphone, so you can hear yourself better.) I can't scream so much as a minister, I just... I can't talk any more. Simply, when you're doing segment one, it can't be even a fair law, and neither is it proposed sufficiently transparent. Why can't he be just? Because it is a large and serious area that needs to be analysed and to create precise payment classes and only in such a way can this area be regulated. Why isn't it fair, too? Because she's selective. Certain institutions are drawn by their name, but what concerns most and leaves the question is, who's all the way down here? That is why he is non-transparent, because he has a large number of institutions for which the government, not known when no deadline has been set, determine whether they have competition on the market or not. It's something that leaves the question of who gets away from this law and is this a law that will solve a problem or is it just a waste of dust? When you look at what the law does not apply, there remains a very small number of entities in the public sector to which it will apply, on the one hand, and the effects will be negligible, because those who have the greatest profits do not fall under this law. I would also point out that the law is very imprecise and that in the short deadlines that we need to solve many things, we will not succeed. Obviously, we will only have to solve some inaccuracies or opinions of the Ministry of Finance through the appropriate regulation, because otherwise many will not be able to understand what they should do. What is also a great injustice and why this law is not fair, because at a certain level, at a local, in the province, and also in the Republic, there are separate funds to form these institutions, and now when it is necessary to return those funds, these funds are not returned to the corresponding budgets, but should be returned to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. For that reason, the law is also unfair. When we talk about amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act, I will most likely remain at the part which, in practice, I believe is not in accordance with the Constitution, which is Article 3(2), in which part of the funds intended for the AP Vojvodina is quite different from in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear that the Constitution says that AP Vojvodina belongs to 7% of the total budget, not just to part of the budget, and in this case it is proposed only from that part of the tax budget. What's actually a budget is clear in the same law. So Article 2 defines exactly what the budget is. So this part was almost unnecessary, because it clearly defines what the budget is. So it's known, and it's already mathematics, which is 7% of that defined budget. For the simple reason, this member has to change, because he will be given for review in the Constitutional Court. One of the laws that certainly cannot be voted on is the Law on Changes and Budget Supplements, for the simple reason that, first of all, it is not only the evaluations of MPs, it is the evaluations and the Fiscal Council, it has a greater deficit. And regardless of all the reasons for what else had to be calculated in that budget, what is evident is, the Fiscal Council has indicated that there is a huge increase in earnings, even by 15%, compared to the previous year, which is not in line with the budget memorandum, and not with other laws, which is unclear for which reasons, and this remains an open question. On the other hand, in a largely announced Law on Public Procurement, which would be very happy if we had received it among the first in the congregation procedure, we expected great savings from it that would be reflected immediately and in the budget. He is still missing in the congregation procedure, and therefore, the cost side relating to supply and services and goods has not been reduced at all. I'd say in this case, the government saw first of all her savings on someone else's back, and at least she was looking to save on herself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2009	The word is by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, the Socialist Party of Serbia. Here you go. Just sign in, 'cause I don't have you registered here.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2010	Dear President, Mr Vukicu, the honourable MPs, given that my colleagues have made very clear and precise determinations under the draft budget rebalancing law, I will take this opportunity to talk only about one segment, only one part of the budget, and in a section relating to the judiciary, i.e., in particular, to courts. Given that there is an item in the budget, that is, a position that should satisfy in any case the needs of courts and the work of courts, it seems to me that this position is not sufficient to meet these needs in an adequate manner. What's this about? We're in the year when there's a consolidation in the judiciary, when... (President: I apologize. Just a minute. You have another minute and 30 seconds at your disposal. I'll tolerate you half a minute to finish thinking, but I can't take it anymore. Please keep that in mind. Here you go. Tolerate a little, not a problem. I'll make sure I'm very brief and concise. Given that, just as I said, we are in the process of removing the consequences of judicial reform, whose assessment is undoubtedly negative, and the consequences are felt, it is evident that in this direction the budgetary burden can be increased. Why? Because the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision restored over 300 judges. This automatically results in an increase in the significant increase in the money needed to be provided for the payout of those judges, and therefore, professional associates, given that each judge must have an expert associate. In addition, the burden on the work of courts and on the budget is also linked to ensuring technical conditions for these judges to return to their courtrooms. (Chairman: Please, your time is up, your MP group.) Here I end up in one sentence. Finally, what involves the fundamental need of the court is that education is done in the most appropriate way, given that judges have not so far had opportunities, and in particular education under international programmes and European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2011	Snow White, I've got a license plate. On what grounds? It looks like a mistake. The word has the People's Messenger Siniša Lazic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2012	Thank you. I will refer only to the Capital Investment Fund, which is related to the way in which the Fund for Capital Investments is planned. So in this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget, the Republic of Serbia is scheduled to issue guarantees for the borrowing of the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund of four billion dinars. The AP Vojvodina Investment Fund, as an indirect beneficiary of the budget, does not have the legal opportunity to be in charge of business banks in the manner described. Also, under the Ministry of Finance and Business division, funds are foreseen under the general character transaction between different levels of government of three billion and 800 million dinars for capital expenditure. Given that the provincial Assembly's decision in the AP Vojvodina's 2012 budget was planned for capital investment through the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, nine billion and 800 million dinars, and that, as of today, only three billion and 800 million were transferred. The Republic of Serbia is expected to see six billion more by the end of this financial year. The funds to be transferred, of course, are defined by the Constitution, and it would be good if before this we had passed a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina and then we would not have this kind of debate. Let me also look at this part of the APV and the Capital Investment Fund's funding, between 2007 and 2012, the Investment Capital Fund was cut off somewhere by 40 billion dinars. At this point, the debt of the Capital Investment Fund to a construction operation in Vojvodina is somewhere at the level of a billion and 800 million dinars. What Mrs Kalanovic was saying about the NIP was transferred nine billion and 800 at a time when she was not a NIP minister, but was another NIP minister. At a time when she was Minister of the NIP, 1.8% of the budget for the entire APV territory was approved. Of these 1.8%, 85 million were approved to finance the construction of a road between Bačka Monostore and Kukusina, a partnership with local self-government. The local self-government has realised 50% of its assets, and 50% of the funds that are NIP until today have not been transferred. These days it's been a year. So that was the reaction and that's the truth. I hope that we will be able to finish this project by the end of this project, because it allows Apatin to go to the Hungarian border one much shorter way. It's through the upper floor reserve. It's a very interesting location and I think it's in the interest of all of us. So in this direction, I ask you to really respect what you promised a year ago, to end it, and to help local self-government in this way, and that budget of 1.8% will not be the means that will endanger the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and I am sure that we will benefit multiplely from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2013	The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2014	Just one question. How many minutes has my MP group been left?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2015	Your parliamentary group has another 17 minutes at their disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2016	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, on the agenda is budget rebalancing, the most important law to be passed here in the Assembly, and it would be time to look at the analysis of why budget rebalances occurred and what I think is something that should not be voted on. Current Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, I am sorry that he is not here now, because I had a few questions to ask him, told citizens that Serbia is threatening bankruptcy and that the measures proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia and budget rebalancing will allow for practical survival. The culprit is DS. So the direct culprit for this position is the DS, and she is not in power now. How there was a deficit in the budget. Now I'm just going to read you what the fiscal council said, and the minister said yesterday that the fiscal council was wrong. When the Law on the financing of local self-government was to be passed, the Fiscal Council said – we estimate that the proposed model of fiscal decentralisation would result in an increase in the deficit of 1.1% of GDP at an annual level, or close to 40 billion dinars in 2012. The bill was not submitted by the DS. What does the Fiscal Council say about the amendment of the Agricultural Land Act? The application of the proposal to rent agricultural land in the future belongs exclusively to local self-government would result in a loss of revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget of about 1.1 billion dinars and a loss of the AP Vojvodina budget of around 1.4 billion dinars. What does the IMF say about budget rebalancing? Maybe he doesn't understand our situation, nor does the fiscal council. The IMF believes that this year's budget rebalancing, which is planning Serbia, is not enough for fiscal consolidation, and that further control of spending is needed before adopting this rebalancing in the National Assembly of Serbia. What my remarks about budget rebalancing and what should have been taken into account, but also in the media, and ministers have also announced a review of some privatisations, is that one concern should be taken, in the last meeting of the Assembly I have submitted an amendment to the subject, and it is about the Solidarity Fund. The Solidarity Fund is an extraordinary state institution, which deals with the payment of nine average salaries to workers of bankrupt companies. Anyone who was socially responsible should have made sure that one part of the funds went to a fund like this, because it was necessary to settle all things and end them. Unfortunately, the current finance minister has also passed a bill on bankruptcy and has led to the discriminatory position of workers of those companies who have remained, unfortunately poor privatisations, without a job. I don't think the measures they're following, practically, this budget rebalance can justify trust for a few reasons. That's what I was talking about yesterday. The first thing is that out of these measures they only have damage to local self-government, because they are taking some of their original incomes. It was not until the end of shutting down the excessive number of agencies existing in Serbia, although it was a promise of all political parties in the previous period. I mentioned that the state of Serbia is costing those agencies about 800m euros and that it is money that can be spent on the other side, on social categories. I think that after this sort of thing, after something that preceded this budget rebalancing, there was no public debate, there was not enough hearing to listen to the Fiscal Council, and neither did the IMF, and I think that Serbian citizens are having difficult days ahead. They should know that someone who says they're being saved by bankruptcy in part of the measures that he's proposing and who's been in all of the governments so far won't be able to make one such proposal, I think the budget rebalance is quite quickly written, that not all the items that should have been seen have been seen. I can't support a budget like this and I can't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2017	Thank you very much. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2018	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, today we are finishing a principle debate on the second set of laws. So it's about 25, 26, 27 and 28 laws. Of these first 28 laws, 12 laws were passed on September 11th, 16 laws were passed on September 14th, and believe me, we were in a very difficult situation to identify such material in such a short time. Twenty-eight draft laws to try properly to fix what can be fixed. Here, I will only be this moment, given that it is already too late, that we worked until late yesterday night and today all day, to bear in mind that tonight we are still awaiting a principle debate on probably four draft laws, which is about ratification, or attesting certain agreements and memoranda, and that, truth be told, after today's discussion here in the Assembly, I don't know whether it's necessary to ratify anything or not, if international agreements apply without ratification. If I didn't open that discussion now, if we didn't open up such discussions, when it came to order, I'd be back on the budget now, to the Budgetary System Act and these laws, or these four laws that are the subject. In particular, there's one thing I'd like to point out to you specifically, and that's to Article 2. Draft budget law, fifth position. The fifth position of Article 2 says - if at the end of 2012 there is a loan from the consolidated Treasury account, depending on the conditions on the financial market, it can be transferred in the following year. What does that mean? If we adopt such a principle, mutual debt can be transferred maybe next year, maybe from that next year to next year, and we don't have a practical cross-section of what's been going on in individual segments of the budget. In this regard, an amendment was submitted with an attempt to delete the position and that at the end of the calendar year the situation in certain segments of the budget is accurate. A contribution to the debate and amendments, but this is also the essential thing about the budget at all. The second thing, in terms of the Budgetary System Act, is that there have been many speeches about various subsidies, and there is no problem, when subsidies are justified, that this is the case. I think it is useful, and there was no procedural opportunity to submit an amendment in that direction, to be asked, since that part of the Budgetary System Act was not proposed to be new, but it is a suggestion that next time we announce the Law on the Budgetary System, we should consider the obligation of monthly reporting on paid subsidies, that it exists on the Ministry's site, that it is possible for everyone to see, and at least six months we have a report on the effects of subsidies with the opinion of the Fiscal Council. I think it will benefit all of us in a better and more responsible way to treat the paid subsidies and in general to every budget appraisal we make. With regard to the very Law on the Budgetary System, I point out certain things that are questionable whether they are consistently implemented in this law. I repeat, I am particularly pleased that the Deputy Prime Minister as an excellent lawyer here is present, that our laws, there are no laws with greater hierarchical power, there is no hierarchy in the laws of our legal system. The constitution or internationally ratified agreement, okay, but all the laws remain the same. We predict in some way that this law on the budgetary system, the question is what is its relationship to other laws currently in force in the legal system, specifically in certain fees. I'm also specifically referring to environmental protection and improvement benefits. This is a particularly important compensation in those environments that are ecologically threatened, such as Panchevo, from which I come, such as God and many other places in Serbia. The compensation for this was introduced by the Law on the Protection of the Environment. It is unclear whether it remains valid or not. According to Mr. Minister, given to the Committee on Finance, whom I attended and, despite being not a member of the Finance Committee, I asked a question as an MP, using the parliamentary option, and I received the answer that this fee remains valid. The amendment was submitted in that direction to make it absolutely clear and I think it's useful, which is why I'm pointing out right now that it should be accepted. Finally, I would point out one more thing about the proposal for a law establishing maximum profit in the public sector. This law treats maximum earnings in the public sector, in public agencies, organisations to which regulations apply in public agencies, compulsory social insurance organisations, public enterprises, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government. We are coming into the situation that when we reach Article 7, the payer in the public sector is required to pay the earnings for a certain month into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, not the budget of the autonomous province or the budget of the unit of local self-government, depending on who the founder is, the difference between the total amount of earnings paid for the month preceding the month, etc. I think it would be correct for that difference, depending on who the founder is, to go to that budget. In this regard, an amendment has been proposed and I think that these are certain useful things that can contribute finally to the better text of these proposed laws. Finally, I'd like to point out something else that is due to a short period of time. You see, we are in a position to fight this, especially when the law is intended for the urgent procedure to be considered, that we cannot get there, believe me, to detailedly implement all these laws, and that within the deadlines foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, until the opening of the principle debate, we see all the shortcomings and try, while this is still possible, to fix certain things. For example, even in the Law on Income Tax, we were not able to see that all values slide, but did not slip that value in terms of flat tax, there remain three million. Everything else slides, other values, so I ask, why hasn't that value slipped compared to the previous law? Both now and in the past year or two, it's been worth it. At the same time, other values skating about how to tax, keeping books, who is a cobweb, who is not a cobweb. These are, for example, some things that force us, in some ways, on the Committee on Finance, as the parent board, to try these things again until we move on to the amendment debate, to come up with such proposals. If most of us 250 MPs, or most of the MPs in the Finance Committee, conclude that this is what we should do, we should accept such things. Yesterday I pointed out certain doubts about excise duty, whether it should be 76 or 88 dinars, precisely because certain different accounts existed, all of which were things that were impossible to verify within such short notice. In that regard, I, as an MP, urge that the Committee of Finance discuss this one more time until the transition to discussion in particular. The fact is, now I'm talking to the Assembly Presidency about distributions that are all committees of origin and duty to declare certain laws, the fact is that this whole set of laws goes to the parent board as a financing committee. For example, the question arises, is the application, today, tomorrow, of any of these laws also treats the matter which is in charge, for example, of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, above all I am referring to the Environmental Protection Act, because according to the Environmental Protection Act, the specific compensation for the protection and improvement of the environment is regulated. In that sense, this is my contribution. So, in any case, I believe that all these discussions can contribute, and I took advantage of the opportunity to already, in principle, touch the topics, all of these, which concern the particulars, just to give the committees the opportunity to support them as such and to set themselves up to the committee for a short period of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2019	Is MP Zika Gojkovic present? (No) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before the conclusion of the joint principle and uniform search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96, want to do so. Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2020	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to take advantage of these few minutes, but I don't have to say a few sentences every minute at the end of this debate. What is important is that the DS parliamentary group tried to make certain constructive proposals in this debate and, of course, it respected certain positive things that appeared in the draft of these laws. First of all, I think of the integration of revenue into the budget, so the merger of its own incomes with other budget revenues and different budgets, which is a positive shift in general in accounting for costs. There are positive shifts in the part of certain taxis and in the part that made business easier. The DS will try to influence and fix some other laws through the amendments, and then eventually we'll see what we can do to support it. However, this main law, which is the Budget Rebalancing Act, has not received a transitional assessment from us, and I feel the need to now, in the end, say, although I have said it before, but still for understanding what these reasons are, and I am particularly glad that there are more MPs present here now who are going to vote, so that they are fully aware of what they are voting for. Therefore, the draft budget rebalance did not reduce the level of expenditure compared to the one provided for in the basic document. On the contrary, there was an increase in it. I also gave the figures, they're about that way that in the last five months of this year, monthly expenditures are scheduled to increase by nearly 20 billion dinars per month. So the average expenditures that amounted to 78 comas come to 90 and something billion a month. So you know, by adopting this budget, you're actually 20 percent increasing expenditure. The fact that there has been an increase in expenditure, of course, has other consequences, and these consequences are approximately the following. So, on the one hand, a VAT increase is proposed in the rebalancing process, which is a very difficult measure in itself, and I see that the promoters have had problems exposing it, especially for seeing how the citizens will accept it. That measure was said to be painful but necessary. However, it is now seen that this measure has not been used in a positive way, that this positive income growth is used to reduce expenditure or at least to redistribute it within the figures it had previously been, but is practically fully absorbed by this growth in the estimated expenditures. They were also not used by funds that were additionally generated by limiting wage growth. In general, as the Fiscal Council noted, this budget rebalance essentially gives more unfavourable results than there were no measures. That's why I ask you to think about it when you vote for him, because he is a very important document based on everything that awaits us in the next period. Thank you very much and vote on your conscience.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2021	Anyone else want a word? (No) pursuant to Rule 98 of Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, I am concluding a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points (a) and (b) of Article 98 of the Rules of Procedure. 25-28 on the agenda. In accordance with Rule 90(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly is in charge of a joint uniform review of the draft law. Of the 29-32 agenda, in addition to the proposing representatives, Ivica Dacic, Prime Minister and Home Affairs Minister, Prime Minister Vlajko Senic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Business, Miroslav Jovanovic, Assistant Defence Minister Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry, Colonel Ljubomir Nikolic, Head of International Military Co-operation at the Ministry of Defence. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals of the law by point. of the 29-32 agenda, and before opening a joint single search, I remind you that under Article 170, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group - one hour, 16 minutes and 48 seconds, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - one hour, one minute and 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia - 30 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds, the United Regions of Serbia - 18 minutes, the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democratic Party - 16 minutes and 48 seconds, the Parliamentary Group of PUPS - 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the Parliamentary Group of New Serbia - nine minutes and 36 seconds, the Single Serbia Group – eight minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia – the Democratic Party of Serbia – six minutes, the six minutes, and six minutes of the National Group of Serbia – the National Group of People's People's People's People's Group – six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, six minutes, six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six, and six minutes, and six minutes, and six minutes of the National group of the National group, the national group, and six, the national group of the National group of the National group of the national group of the national group. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement, shall determine no more than three participants in the debate who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit statements for a word, with a number of MPs, under Rule 96 of Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Djordža Stojsic, MP Group of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina; MP Milos Jovanovic, the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group; MP Miletic Mihajlovic, the SPS parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Cooperation in the Area of Defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations on the Contribution of the System of Stand Bays of the United Nations; Proposal for a Law confirming the Amendment to the Statute of the International Monetary Fund on Reform of the Committee of Executive Directors and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying and the Protocol for the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying. Does the proposing representative, Mr. Alexander Vukic, first Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2022	Thank you. First of all, I'm going to show from the Department of Defense why I think it's important that you support these bill proposals. First of all, I will talk about the bill to confirm the Agreement on Defence Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria. The adoption of this bill will mean establishing a legal basis for direct and direct co-operation between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Algeria and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia. I want to tell you that this is one of the most important countries, that Algeria is one of the most important countries with which it is co-operated in the Ministry of Defence today and in terms of military-economic co-operation, which is for us, I would say of crucial importance, but in terms of military and military-medical co-operation. In 1999, Algeria, for those who may not have that information, by coming Abdel Aziz Butaflik to power, I would say to become not only a regional factor but a continental factor, and its ties to the world's most powerful countries. It is about a country rich in natural resources and, more importantly, for us, it is much more important for its strategic partner in restoring his defence industry, in restoring his defence technology, in defending his, if you will, infrastructure facilities and economic capacities, for his strategic partner, so he chose Serbia. Why should Serbia, since it would be strange for someone - Serbia? Because they see the former Yugoslavia as their biggest friend, because during the 1959 revolution Yugoslavia was the first country to recognise Algeria's independence, so even though it was formally established in 1962. So, we have had a significant participation just as Serbs, which are also key photos of the rules in the Algerian area and they experience it in a different way than we do, they respect it much more, to be honest, than we do today. They are, to be quite open in certain affairs that our businesses have concluded in the territory of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria, so much we have come out to meet that they have sometimes given us a job without being the first in the tender. So, it's a very friendly country, a country with which I would like to introduce you to all kinds of co-operation we have in the area of defence, but what is most important to you, the honourable MPs in this high house, which is that "Jugoimport SDPR" signed on behalf of the Ministry of Defence a contract with the Ministry of Defence of Algeria to 275m euros and we expect in the next period, and we have made more important talks, to raise that co-operation to a significantly higher level. I want to tell you that several of our important companies are working, and some are now establishing contacts to get jobs in Algeria. It is about important infrastructure projects from the construction of dams, roads, and we hope to get the opportunity we expect in the future in Angola, South Africa and some other countries, the construction of military hospitals. I want to tell you that building these military hospitals would always, the value of construction is at least 300, 350, and up to 450 million euros. So what's very important for our relationship is that we, too, and they have opened a delegation to both countries, so military delegation to both countries. We have extraordinary, first of all, military-medical, military-educated co-operation. We have 20 members of the Algerian Ministry of Defence in our master's studies. Now their demands have been increased. Also, I want to tell you that they want us to go from 2012 to 2015 to VMA instructions from 15 doctors who would be further educated and further educated, which is what we accept and assume with the greatest satisfaction. Their coming here, as well as their ideas for joint co-operation at the level of special units to take over certain training techniques, but also that, of course, we accept their experiences, because something of great importance is bringing them deeper and deeper into co-operation, not only with our units, but also with the Military and Technical Institute and with ours, which I have talked about, they are particularly interested in restoring, remonting those equipment, weapons and military equipment that come from the east. We have very trained staff, professional people, but also all possible capacities. That is why I expect this type of military co-operation with the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria to continue in the best possible way. I'd like to cheer you up next year with the fact that we're going to increase the number of our companies working in Algeria, but also increase all the contracts we have with Algeria on the sale of our weapons, our techniques. I think it's very close to us and we're about to achieve important and fruitful co-operation in the domain of drones, so I want to tell you that I think Algeria is one of the most important countries with which we need to establish co-operation. If there are any additional questions under the agreement, I am prepared to answer these questions. I would also like to talk about, I won't hold you back for long, to provide you with some information on the bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations, on the contribution of the system on the "stend Bay" arrangement of the UN. This concerns our participation in multinational operations at the UN. The agreement defines the defence ministry's capacities and the Serbian Army for participation in these operations, I would say, contributes to better planning for training, but above all, to timely financial security. For those of you who don't know, I want to say that we now have a total of six multinational operations under the auspices of the UN, that we have 67 members, that these are professional soldiers always, that in Cyprus we have the largest contingent of our forces, a total of 46 members. I expect that in the next few days, when the EU Defence Ministers' Summit is held, and for the first time the Republic of Serbia, if everything is planned, will be all right, I expect to visit our soldiers there and talk to them. At the same time, we have other members, eight members of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, five staff officers in the Republic of Lebanon, four military observers in Liberia, three military observers in the Côte d'Ivoire, and in the framework of the UN peacekeeping mission in the Middle East, we have one seat of a military observer, under the agreement of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence of Austria. So we have here, if you want to talk about it, something that is very important for us, for our country's development capacities, this is about actions that approve and implement the UN, approve and implement the UN, not any blocks. We have our military neutrality, which is guaranteed by the Declaration of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and we stick to it. So why did I want to give you another piece of information? We have a South base, which we expect it can, not only contribute to the high-quality training of our soldiers and our professionals, but I think that South base can be very important in training, to become a regional centre for training soldiers from other countries, which would be very important in economic terms for our country, which, especially in that Serbian area, so in southern Serbia, would be improved for many reasons of economic possibility, of course, this is a more technical proposal for an agreement, but I call on you both to accept for both of you to vote. Thank you. If any information is needed, I am prepared to provide you with more information and for the operations we have entered under the auspices of the European Union. If you have any questions, I'll also provide you with information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2023	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Defense for the information. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform the MPs that the authorised representative of the Serbian Progressive Party, Momir Stojanovic, is. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milos Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2024	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the Government, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are four proposals for a law on the validation of international agreements which are, by their content, by the matter they regulate, quite diverse and thus do not deserve equal attention. When it comes to the proposal to amend the Statute of the International Monetary Fund, these things are quite clear. He doesn't require any particular comment, because it's purely procedural and in fact this thing is basically already over. The same is true when it comes to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying in the countries of the signatories of the agreement. This is about a type-of-the-art agreement that's technical. My colleague will later turn to him in short lines in any case in a later discussion, so essentially in this package of proposed laws two agreements are important. These are the two agreements the defence minister mentioned earlier. Therefore, the first agreement on defence co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria and perhaps for discussion is a more challenging and interesting second agreement, i.e. a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the UN on the contribution of the UN stand-by system. The agreement concerns the capacity that Serbia is making available to the UN for its peacekeeping missions. When we talk about these agreements, it does appear, however, conditionally, one small problem. I listened closely to Mr. Minister Vukic's explanation and the problem is next. In fact, it is natural for these laws today to be proposed by the current Government of the Republic of Serbia, but these laws concern the validation of agreements signed during the mandate of the previous government. Moreover, they bear the signature of the previous defence minister, Dragan Sutanovac. It actually represents a DSS not so little problem, because, independently of the very content of these agreements, which I will return to, and the matter they regulate, these two agreements at least formally stand in continuance with the previous government and the policy itself in the area of defence that the government has carried out for the last four years and perhaps several years. With this policy and, at all, with the country's strategic and foreign policy orientation in that period, I don't think I'm going to reveal any secret if I say that the DSS had serious and deep disagreements because that policy was directly contrary to national and state interests and that of the elemental national state interests, which by definition re-emerges everything that was done at that time, or even the signing of these agreements. This political context, i.e. the context of previous policy, cannot be avoided when we talk about these agreements to a team before it is still not fully clear what the policy of defence of the future, or this government, of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that before our relative deviation to these agreements is explained in the most part by our complete deviation towards that policy, which was led in the previous period, and this policy, as I said, was indeed contrary to the elemental state interests of the Republic of Serbia. I'm gonna cut back a little bit. It's just, we had our first act and started discussing it quite late. The first thing that we faced in this previous policy was the apparent Atlantic commitment and orientation of the previous Serbian government. It was simply clear that Serbia was slowly but certainly approaching and preparing for NATO membership and there is no doubt about it. That's what we have a witness on. There have been a few attempts at some denials, but they have always been inconclusive and inconclusive, partly due to the likely dishonesty of those people who denied these things, but essentially because of a large number of evidence that they said otherwise, which said Serbia is very close to NATO's alliance. I will not repeat these elements here now, from the US diplomats sent from Belgrade, which indicated that the unequivocal state summit is directly working on Serbia's NATO membership through NATO's own reports. At the very least, that attachment may be best seen in that episode when we're all embarrassed. I mean the episode when the previous government organized in the middle of the Serbian capital NATO's June 2010 rally, and it really embarrassed us all. But here I come to this agreement, or a memorandum with the UN, one other element that we disagreed with, which was quite expressed in the previous defence policy, is the potential of peacekeeping missions as a very important element, I quote, Serbia's foreign policy. Otherwise, this formulation is often in the documentation of the official, therefore, potential of peacekeeping missions as an increasingly significant element of Serbia's foreign policy. That potential at one point became so significant that it went into some sort of obsession. At one point, there was talk of the positive effects of peacekeeping missions, that is, Serbia's participation in these peace missions, and it went so far that we could even hear some problematic statements from people who were in office within the defence system. I've got one in my head, but there were a lot of them. I remember last year, Tanja Miscevic, then secretary of state at the Ministry of Defence, said security is not being defended at borders today, but is being defended by the security of the state by participation in various missions. It's a statement that's questionable in itself. I am convinced that there is no serious state that would accept this claim as correct, and I am even more confident that there is no serious state that would accept this claim as correct, and I am even more confident that there is no serious state that would base its defence policy on such a demented premise. That obsession continued. Mr. Minister also mentioned the South Base. She also received very specific outlines in both planning and training. So, we have a base, previously called Cepotin, from 2009 to the South base near Podujeva, which will, in turn, serve as training for peacekeeping missions and this training will be done in agreement with the famous National Guard Ohio, which we have a partnership with. What is most problematic for the DSS and where we will closely monitor the government's policy is that in this obsession of peacekeeping missions it went so far that Serbia signed a framework agreement last year on Serbia's participation in peacekeeping missions, in EU operations, making it civil, military. That's where we actually come into total absurdity. Namely, what's this about? This has shown that Serbia is very active and specifically seeking to support the EU's foreign, or common foreign and security policy, and precisely in this EU common, foreign and security policy, the EU is directly jeopardising Serbia's security. It is precisely within this common, foreign and security policy that the EU sends to Mission Eulexna Kosovo, otherwise, everything not just an unindulgent, or status neutral mission, as represented for years and months by the previous government and precisely within that common, foreign and security policy of the EU, that the Union supports the secession of our southern province. Of course, it's repeated complete absurdity, I can understand, I'm sorry there are no more representatives of the former government here. I can understand that on many issues both in this room and out of this room we can have different opinions, but that kind of playing with elementary logic and essentially playing with the state and the national interests, I don't understand it, I think they're usually hard to explain. Speaking of these peace missions that take place within and under the auspices of the EU, I will repeat the position the DSS expressed last year when it was discussed in this room, Jovan Palalic then discussed, for the DSS, Serbia's participation in peacekeeping missions, or operations conducted by the EU, is absolutely unacceptable. That's what we said back then, that's what I'm saying today for decades. However, if EU peacekeeping missions are unacceptable, and they are legitimately asked a question, to say the modality and scope of Serbia's participation and in the UN's peacekeeping missions, now to avoid confusion, please and to make things perfectly clear to the DSS are absolutely in the principle of uncontested missions, probably there is no party in Serbia that has repeated so many times, that the foundations and principles of the UN Charter must respect both the principle of sovereignty and the principle of territorial integrity, if we will indeed not interfere in the internal affairs of the state and not only the foundations and principles, but also the acts that the UN authorities bring, here I mean primarily the legally binding Security Council resolution which includes Resolution 1244, which provides us with protection when we come to the issues of our main security threat to the problem, which is the secession of the southern province. So there is really no party that is more aware of how important international law is and how much it gives us arguments in our fight against this major security threat. However, if the UN-led peacekeeping missions are indisputable in their principle, I repeat, there are several reasons to suggest that, I repeat legitimately ask the question of non-participation as such, but about the modality, the extent of the Serbian participation in these missions. A few of these reasons I'm going to mention, not much because of the weather, I think if my colleagues are discussed, they're going to reach some of these reasons, but we've been talking a day and a half in this room about how hard it is to make ends meet, how much trouble there is with the budget, how empty the case is, as far as we all know, you Mr. Minister might be best now, how much less the budget is for the defense system. So, in this context of absoluteity, since we unfortunately don't have enough money, the question can legitimately be asked whether this little money we have should be spent on peace missions? A team before you can ask a point of purpose the same. So, what Serbia really gets by participating in peace missions, whether the country's security is stronger, whether it's more stable, nothing less secure in the end our situation shows that security is not God-knowing that it has improved in this country, because we participate in any missions. We all know that the situation in Kosovo and Metohija is, we all know that there are separatist tendencies in other parts of this country that directly threaten Serbia's security. Is the combatability of our army improved by participating in peacekeeping missions, operations, and that is a question that can hardly be answered, I, in some of my contacts, which with officers, which with the officers of which even some of them are instructors for peace missions, have gained a strong impression and a very clear impression that it is about training and combat preparedness and training, we do not get God knows what of this activity called participation in peace missions. There is one logical problem when we talk about Serbia's participation and peace missions. In fact, we are a country that has not established peace in its house, and unfortunately it is evident, and we will not establish it until we resolve the issue of Kosovo and Metohija and until we resolve it in a way that is consistent with our interests, that is, until we resolve the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, and according to the Constitution, which means until we resolve this issue by bringing the southern province back to its effective Serbian sovereignty. It may sound to some today probably, not much on my left, on my right, the lines have spread a little bit, sounds maybe less likely, and that's as well as possible. Of course, it won't be easy, it'll take a while, it requires strong will and serious strategy and serious people, and that's something we're doomed to. In a context where we haven't solved all our security issues, and there are others, besides the secession of Kosovo and Metohija, it's at least a little strange to go around the world and spend our resources and our energy doing something that unfortunately we haven't done in our own house, at least not yet. The question arises whether we participate in peacekeeping missions, which is something that is often potent, improves reputation and international credibility. We could hardly hear that. You know, the UN Department of Peace Operations has lists of countries participating in these peace operations. When you look at these lists you'll find really many countries, you'll find Papa New Guinea and the islands of Fiji and Burundi, there's Salvador, so there's a number of countries. Some of them have even more contingents than we have on peacekeeping missions, but a number of countries I can't claim and I'm really not sure, I don't think anyone can claim that their international reputation, whatever it is, has grown or improved because these countries are participating in peacekeeping missions. All in all, the DSS's position on my part is quite clear. So, when it comes to EU-organised peace missions, I repeat, they are unacceptable to us. When it comes to UN missions, they are generally indisputable to us, but I think given the whole context, I am part of it here tonight, a question can be asked, I repeat, what about the moderations, what about the Serb participation in these missions. As far as the country's general orientation is concerned, I have to repeat what I'm saying, the previous government has not done, which was an obligation in view of the resolution on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of 2007, which has been declared Serbia's military neutrality, which is that Serbia is a military neutral state and should remain in view of the international circumstances, given the extent of the force that exists today on this stage. I'm really sorry that there are no more people from the previous set of government, so before I finish talking to you, Mr. Minister, I'm really not one of those, and God forbids me and our party is not one of those who gives positive assessments about power. On the other hand, I again believe that the opposition does not have to since it is then critical of the government no matter what it does. In that context, since we know what the previous policy was, and it was devastating, we're talking about defence policy, and I said I'm not sure what this government's policy will be, but there are some indications, so to speak, a positive shift. I mean two things that don't matter at all. First, I think of your visit to the Russian Federation, to the talks with Mr. Rogozin and to the simple alignment of some kind of co-operation in the area of the dedicated industry, whether it's an acceleration, whether it's an establishment. It's something we haven't had a chance to hear in the previous period, which is very important to us and just leads to some balance of the situation, which is very important. So far, we've only been tied to one part of the world that worked on our heads. I think the logic itself requires that we try to co-operate with some other parts of the world, which at least helps us in our fight when it comes to security threats. The second element is your decadent statement in front of US officials, that Serbia has no ambition to become a NATO member, and that it is a military neutral country. It's something we welcome, and this time I have no problem expressing it as some kind of praise, although it shouldn't be boasted, because it's a positive legal state of affairs, compared to what was before and it's worth it. I don't have a problem with mentioning it, because it's essentially something the DSS formulated, anyway, isn't the state and the Ministry of Defense, never regretting it, but it's going to come that day. This is something the DSS has formulated, and anyone holding on to it will have support in us. Generally speaking for everything that is your work, and being in discontinuity with what's been done so far, I don't think I'm wrong if I say you'll be able to count on some kind of support, and on the other hand I'm speaking openly, for all the activities and any kind of policy that will be in discontinuity with what was done in the previous period you'll have in us, believe the most harsh critics and that criticism will probably be much more severe than the one we referred to the previous authorities because there were no secrets for them who they were or what they were. Very quickly they turned out to be once a red star, now a yellow star, and now the star of the North Star is more expensive than four glasses. That, I have to admit, I don't understand much, not on the logical side, not on the moral side, but that's their attitude and they have the right to it. You, personally, are expected by your governments and the ruling majority, however, to have some kind of discontinuity in everything, including in the defence policy. If that is not the case, our criticism will be uncompromising, because in these domains there is no compromise. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2025	Thank you very much. Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2026	Mr. Chairman, I believe that in the previous discussion you can talk about the violation of article 106, because Article 106. The Rules of Procedure say the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. The fact is, we have four points of the agenda now in the debate. These are proposals and confirmation laws, on the one hand, of a defence co-operation agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria. We have a proposal for a bill confirming the proposal and amending the Statute of the IMF, a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova, and we have one Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations on the contribution to the UN stand-by arrangement system. We don't have here to confirm any other memos or any agreement with anyone else, specifically here in relation to the UN. I do not understand the need to at the same time have the need to attack only them, that part of the previous government, which is now in opposition, in a situation where someone is running for government participation. I think that, in that sense, we should still focus our discussions on the points of the agenda, and that need to attack the opposition by the opposition or that party that supports the government, I don't think it's right. In that sense, the chairman, I ask you to keep the agenda in line with Article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2027	I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. It is the right of the People's Messenger to have his vision and reason and to use some of his broader thoughts. Therefore, it is very difficult to take the right measure if the MP does not deviate much from the subject, and I do not think he has stepped down. I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. If you disagree, we can decide in the voting day. Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2028	I just wanted a few sentences to answer. So, first of all, I thank you for the correct discussion. To me, this agreement, to be open, with Algeria and because of this economic aspect and everything else, was absolutely important, and that is why I paid the most attention to it. As far as our defence policy is concerned, I think for the first time in many years and at a large gathering on the 100th anniversary of the Serbian Air Force, we have managed to bring together representatives of the Russian Federation and representatives of the United States and many European countries and Asian countries. That's where it turns out, it's not just our definition. Thank you when you say an even nice word, in terms of relations with NATO or the ODKB or any other military group. It is my constitutional obligation and our obligation to respect the laws of this country, to respect the decisions of the National Assembly. At each meeting, as you have noticed, I tell NATO representatives that Serbia is a military neutral country, as I said in Moscow when I was staying. I consider it my obligation, I consider it an obligation for every citizen of this country, until the National Assembly may change something in the future, but it certainly won't be you or me. So, this agreement, as far as the stand-by arrangement and relations with peace missions are concerned, I don't think there's anything controversial about it. There's only one thing I wanted to try to answer seriously, and that's finance, financing these peace missions. It is true that most of that cost is borne by the state of Serbia, but I want to point out to you the following fact that from every participation so far in peacekeeping missions we have received more through military equipment in donations and I would say even twice as much as those missions have cost us. Now, I wouldn't go public with why it's done, and I don't know what we're doing, why some people do it, but it's a great desire for many people in the world to be involved. People need to know that we will not go where NATO is conducting operations, to Afghanistan, or to many other countries of the world. But Serbia has, if you want, even economically, and I would say, that correcting the image, at least in certain countries, not to say in everyone in the world, is not a meaningless thing for our country. We're not losing anything, and I don't think that when you want to show that you care about the preservation of peace in another area, and we're doing it with really minimal forces, that you're showing and I'd say some kind of altruism and solidarity that existed with our people and the moment we gave a donation to Japan after a big earthquake, it's bigger than paying for participation in all the peace missions we've had so far. Simply, I understand this as a political issue that you wanted to ask more than just criticise the content of the bill's proposal, but as far as I'm concerned, since our parliamentarians are attending the NATO Parliamentary Assembly sessions, our parliamentarians are conducting serious communication and talks with the ODKB representatives. This will continue, but Serbia remains militaryly neutral and that is the attitude of our National Assembly. It seems to me that at this point and the position of the greatest part of our people and as far as the Government of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, we will respect the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and of our people. I would only ask if I could ask the MPs of the ruling majority and the MPs of my SNS that if I can speak positively of these contracts without criticising anyone from the opposition because of the different attitudes. Thank you and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2029	Thank you. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I give my word to Parliamentarian Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I will be brief for this time. I'm going to talk about these two draft laws regarding defence and security. This proposal for a bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the UN, on a contribution to the UN stand-by arrangement system, as well as this proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria. I would like to invite all MPs to vote in favour of these two draft laws and, of course, for everyone else, but especially for these two, because they are of general interest to the state of Serbia. It is well, it is already explained why this agreement with Algeria is important to ratify here in parliament. The most important thing for me here is that in everything I've read, it's clearly seen in Article 3, where all these possibilities of co-operation that we have and what is currently most important, in any case, is this part that concerns economic items - arms procurement, military equipment and weapons systems, as well as providing support in the supply of spare parts and other means necessary for the use, maintenance, remonting, etc. We have heard how much this will essentially contribute to the Republic of Serbia. It would be good if we still had such agreements and if the state of Serbia were to engage, if possible, in several such agreements. We've had in that region, say North Africa, lots of friends, not only Algeria, and we could probably find more markets here, if we engage further, and if we make extra effort, and of course, in other parts of the world. It should not be forgotten that this matter is important, but it is also about the point of peace missions, that co-operation in the field of counter-terrorism and how important it is. Not just co-operation in the area that's written here in the bill of law and with the state of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria, but, for God's sake, with the whole world, because we see what happens every day. You can see what's going on around the world these days about some non-essential movie that's made the whole mess in the world. You need to be careful. There's got to be some information. He needs to take care of his country, no matter what the security risks are with us. Right now, we're busy with the greatest security risk for our country, but that doesn't mean that these others are off and they can't hit us. Just to engage in the right way, I think that hiring in UN peacekeeping missions is positive, favourable, necessary and desirable for us. We really need as much as we can to engage, up against the fence, and that's where I completely agree, and I've said it many times in this esteemed home. Let's just say that "Isef" mission in Afghanistan is unacceptable, although at one point, five or six years ago, there was a preparation within our country to go with a medical team in Afghanistan, but from that, thank God, it gave up. There's no need for that. We should choose here, but thank God, we also have a constitution in which it is clearly indicated that it decides, ultimately, parliament, for the military. It does not decide for the police, so without Parliament's decision it went to Haiti and Liberia, etc. It was good missions and good decisions that went there a while ago and it was supposed to go. We saw that our officers were extremely engaged, say, the moment a poor country like Haiti hit an earthquake, they were even seen there, and they worked, and they helped that people there. I think that as far as Serbia itself is concerned and promoting Serbia is an important thing. We all love it when Serbia promotes, but unfortunately, little do we see here because of this media attention that when these soldiers wear their coat of arms, their flag, they promote Serbia, and we love it when it's promoted by athletes, even when they promote fruit trees at some championships, or other athletes, waterpolitans, athletes, athletes, football players, etc. Some even embarrass us sometimes, but the soldiers have never shamed us on these missions so far. I think even for the promotion, the economic reasons, the modernisation of technique, the exchange of techniques, knowledge is very important. That's why I think Serbia needs to cooperate as much as possible, as much as possible, but of course this house decides where it goes and where it doesn't. That is why this proposal should also be supported, because it is essentially, in a technical sense, the real start of co-operation with the UN and every country participating in peacekeeping missions, and the agreement signifies, so as members of the UN, I think it's perfectly logical that we do and that we don't have any controversy here in this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2031	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2032	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, our MP group and our party are a very important topic of defence policy. What is the strategy and what are the intentions of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia on this issue, because, as my colleague Milos Jovanovic said, we have witnessed the collapse of the defence system and in general the collapse of the security of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period. I would take this opportunity to ask a few questions to Mr. Minister for clarification, because this was a matter that we had great controversy in the National Assembly in the previous period, which concerns the essential definition of our defence policy, which is military neutrality. First, it is true that military neutrality is mentioned in the Assembly resolution on the protection of the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. As I recall, at the end of December 2007, the entire assembly of the National Assembly, on December 26th, I think it was then, adopted that resolution. What was expected afterwards is that military neutrality as a definition of the Republic of Serbia is found in the most important strategic document, which we will discuss before the National Assembly, in the National Security Strategy. I urge you, Mr. Minister, that as soon as possible, I must declare myself in this way, an empty document that we have discussed here, which is called the National Security Strategy, the most important strategy adopted by the National Assembly by the proposal of the Ministry of Defence or the Government, under urgent review. The document avoided, and where else to find, mentioning military neutrality. You have a variety of stories here about various types of integration, about integration into the European security system, in the euro integration, in the regional security system, even the new speech that various NGOs have imposed here, the public of Serbia is introducing it on the export of security, on the indivisibility of security, and we have been in such an important document to suppress such things that are not ours, which we are forced to do, to weaken us. I believe that by careful analysis of this strategy, you will certainly come to the conclusion that it must be found in the National Assembly, to agree that Serbia is neutral in military terms, it changes. This implies not only a unilateral movement towards the NATO Pact and Euro-Atlantic integration, as it seemed in the previous period, but indeed military neutrality, on the movement and co-operation with all states that can contribute to Serbia being a safe state. In that sense, when we talk about the need for co-operation with everyone, it is true what you said, Mr. Minister, that we are members of the Partnership for Peace and Serbia became a member of the Partnership for Peace in 2006. It is true that thanks to previous authorities, several letters to the National Assembly, the Government of Serbia, that Serbia was invited to be in the status of observers, organisations and agreements of collective security, never to a few questions from our parliamentary group, and I believe that there were more parliamentary groups who set it up, did not find before the National Assembly, the formation of a delegation of the National Assembly to make Serbia as an observer of the organisation agreed on collective security. If we want to be someone who will lead a balanced policy in the field of defence, then we should not only be members, or in the status of observers, members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, but should be in the status of observers, when we are already invited to another meeting that is incomparably more prone to Serbia, which incomparably wants to co-operate with us and which, ultimately, your position in speeches can help strengthen our capacities. I call upon you, with your authority of the Minister, to raise that question. I also call on the most important party in the National Assembly to form a delegation of the National Assembly as soon as possible. You, I don't know if someone misinformed you when you said you had a lot of intense contacts with the KDKB, we didn't have them at all. Only one delegation of ad hoc went to the ODKB Assembly in 2010 with major obstructions of the then ruling coalition. The third thing, Mr. Minister, the level of co-operation on the framework of the Partnership for Peace, simply in the previous government, we pointed to one fact that they, of course, in accordance with their policy, completely forgot, and did not want to mention it. One relationship within the NATO Pact and the Partnership for Peace until Kosovo's declaration of independence in February 2008, and then something else, given NATO's role in the KIM space. We had an incredible process that we had almost undetectable co-operation or relations within the Partnership for Peace until 2008, and after that, and you will believe that you have already met within the framework of the Ministry of Cooperation and the degree of these relations that exist within the Partnership for Peace, because there are several phases in the area of interoperability and a series of others, incomparably more advanced. You know the NATO Pact creates or tries to create an army called the so-called NATO Pact. false countries of Kosovo. We cannot make progress at that stage, even come to the stage to prepare our individual units for participation in NATO pact operations. That's what's happening. I believe that you will be informed very quickly at what stage your relations are within the Partnership for Peace. We need to be in a position to lower these relations until we discuss this issue – does the NATO Pact directly endanger our national security in public saying it will help create so-called. the armies of the so-called armies of the so-called an independent state of Kosovo that is planned to be very soon official in 2013? In any case, it is necessary to review these relations and this depth of co-operation, and cannot allow it to go to the level that our units will prepare for participation in the NATO Pact's peacekeeping operations. The important issue that we have mentioned here is the issue of participation in EU operations. That's what we're up against. The first thing we think we can't do is participate in a common defence, security policy with those who did everything possible to get to...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2033	Mr. Palalic, I think you've gone a little wide.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2034	Here I go. It's about peace missions...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2035	It's an interesting subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2036	Yes, but it's very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2037	Still, go back to these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2038	Minister Vukic is here, and I believe this is an opportunity to answer some questions. In any case, we are against it and we believe that Serbia should get out of that system and out of that common policy, because we cannot accept that Eulex's presence can contribute, in the area of KIM, to the security of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2039	The word has a folk MP, Jadranka Joksimovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2040	Thank you. So, I'm advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, given that this is a controversial violation of the Rules of Procedure in the presentation of the previous People's MP. That wouldn't be a big problem if it weren't for the fact that this is how we deceive Serbian citizens what this is about. Not one word in the proposed laws is spoken of, or interstate agreements or memoranda, so that we do not define in what context we are talking about these agreements, about the PfP, or about the common European security policy, or NATO. So, in no way do the proposed confirmation laws in this parliament represent Serbia's interests or harm Serbia's interests as a military neutral country, as defined by this parliament's resolution. You are, by your own discussion, or the People's MP, in order not to speak to myself, in fact, to put in a situation, I don't mean out of evil intent, but I simply feel the responsibility to say it, you have deceived the public that we are talking about NATO operations here. No, this is about UN missions. The agreement that has been defined so that, at any moment, the agreement can, if one party considers that there is no longer any need for participation in peacekeeping missions, withdraw. I understand the DSS NATO obsession and I don't have a problem with it at all, I have some similar attitudes, but simply if we're on one topic of the agenda, then I'm asking that we don't deceive the citizens who are following this, if they're still following. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2041	Thank you. I don't think you had to advertise the Rules of Procedure, especially since I warned the MP that he had strayed from the subject, and he himself admitted that that was the case and stopped the discussion. So, I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. John Palalic, replica? You have no right to a replica. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please, I answered. You have no right to a replica. Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2042	I'm sorry, but our colleague insulted our parliamentary group with a statement that our MP group is obsessed with NATO's pact. We're not obsessed with the NATO Pact. We consider NATO a pact an enemy of the Serbian state. We will make all our efforts, as a parliamentary group and as a party, so that Serbia will never be a NATO pact member. We didn't say for a moment that there was talk here or that there was a breach by the Government of the Republic of Serbia of military neutrality. Even our authorised representative praised Minister Vukic's statement that Serbia would remain militaryly neutral. My discussion went in the direction that those shortcomings that threatened military neutrality, including the mission, related to EU missions, but also other segments of that policy, were removed in order to strengthen the military neutrality that is, apparently, the government's commitment, which we welcome. That was the point of my discussion. I believe the citizens were absolutely interested. Citizens are interested, at the very least, in this segment of the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia. We said how we feel about UN missions. We support those missions. We believe we can discuss their structure and scope and oppose EU missions. In no way did we dispute the position here, nor did we question Mr. Vukic's position that the government's position was military neutrality. We want to strengthen military neutrality. We will fight in every possible way against any government that wishes openly or publicly to bring Serbia into the NATO Pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2043	I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. You misread the words of MP Joksimovic. Surely there is no, if you have listened carefully, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, who in many matters agreed with you and gave in this regard a detailed explanation. I assume you've heard her words. I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by Vice President Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2044	I'm just going to answer a quick question Mr. Palalic asked. We are working on the missing and several important strategic documents at the Ministry of Defence, and I expect that in the coming months we will also go before the Government of the Republic of Serbia and with some of them to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As for the political issue and the rights of participation, i.e. to get the opportunity to become observers of the ODKB missions, which we are at NATO, I think it is good that we talk to everyone, spread our perspectives, our knowledge, and that is a question for parliament, not for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As far as our parliamentary groups are concerned, I'm sure she won't mind working with everyone and we've never had that kind of problem. As for the one where you show some kind of fear, I may have called it by the wrong name, about the violation of military neutrality. Yes, we want and it is not disputed to co-operate with many NATO countries, but we also work with many non-NATO countries. We have a programme of Partnership for Peace. Now the question arises – what is it and how is it to maintain that kind of balance to take as much as you can for the country on each side without departing from what has been declared by the National Assembly and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? It may not be easy sometimes, but I want to assure you that even when we cooperate with what has been unfairly criticised in Serbia and the National Guard of Ohio and when we work with the Russians, where we are criticised by the other side, we do so in the interests of Serbia because we cannot be here either US representatives or Russian representatives, but representatives of the Serbian people and all other citizens of Serbia. That's the kind of policy we're going to run. I want to point out to you one fact that in a few days Boris Breezlov will be in Belgrade. I don't need to tell you how important it is today for the Russian Federation's security and security system. We will sign an agreement with them within the Department of Defense. Until recently, we had co-operation with the Russian Federation on a zero level. That's what's changed now. But we don't want to destroy and we don't want to destroy co-operation with the United States or anyone else. On the contrary, we want to continue it, because it is in the interest of our people and our country. As for what happened to us in 1999, I don't think I have to explain to share the views of Serbian citizens. Thank you and I'm sorry I took up so much of your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2045	Thank you very much. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. You're giving up? Thank you. National MP Donka Banovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2046	I'm a little worried now, Mr. Arsenovic. You told my colleague, John Palalic, that he had gone wide, so I'm afraid you're telling me, too, or you're not. He won't do it, I'm a lady. Right? What we MPs very often use in this house is that when we get some bill, sometimes we can't strictly stick to that bill. For example, it is my intention to talk a little bit more widely about reading in general, and it is because of this agreement that the Republic of Serbia signed with the Republic of Moldova on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's a reason, but I'm not gonna talk about this strictly. It opens up space to the MP, in a way, to talk about some problems that he can't normally get just such an easy chance to talk about. I refer to this agreement that we have signed with Moldova, I think it is the 16th or 17th bilateral agreement that Serbia has signed on this topic. I have not been able to find any statistics, although it is strong and difficult, given the current situation, but there is probably some previous statistics on how many persons were illegally staying in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that they originate in Moldova and vice versa. I suppose precise statistics don't exist, but certainly there are some estimates. Otherwise, this is a type-of-the-art agreement that sort of regulates the co-operation of our two police officers. In 2007, Serbia signed a single readmission agreement with the EU as a whole, and later explained the agreement on some 16, 17 or 18 bilateral agreements on the readmission of persons or citizens of Serbia who have illegally or lost the right to stay in those countries and then become the subject of readmission or return to the country of origin, in this case to Serbia. According to an estimate by the Refugee Commissioner, around 40 of its citizens have returned to Serbia, who have lost their right to remain in EU countries. Among these people, most people who in the 1990s and later, for some of the most economic reasons, war events, left Serbia and went mainly to Western European countries. So they were persons who had a longer stay, all waiting for the possible approval that they could stay legally and not get it, they were returned to Serbia. There were also members of all peoples and ethnic groups, both Serbs and Montenegrins and Macedonians, and most Roma. For example, what it says in a report on the Ministry of the Interior site, where these readmission agreements are somewhat explained or described, says that the provisions of the concluded agreements and protocols also cover the EU's highest standards in the field of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens, as well as the regulations of other international conventions, dedicated to protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms. This is far from true. So the paper suffers everything. What this process is now reduced to, from miles of reading, so we won't know what it is, is actually forced deportation or organised deportation mainly from EU countries, which are thus being resolved, all calling it a readmission and telling others how human rights are respected, has been reduced to the most common deportation. At Nicole Tesla Airport, there's an office for the reception of people from the readmission, and there's countless personal stories of entire families, in which they've been intercepted on the street and stuffed into planes. That's where the school years of children broke up. I'm talking about those people who've been staying for years, for example, in Germany, that they just picked them up from the street and the apartments and put them on planes. Not to mention that the country they were living in didn't occur to think that, let's say, people who were being sent back to their country of origin to help them materially, at least until they found their way back in the first place. Of course, it is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to make that reintegration better. We, by the way, have all these papers in place, we have a strategy, there are action plans, and even there are local action plans. However, I'm afraid we're all here together as a state, because the people who have been returned through these reading processes are far from reintegrating into Serbian society. Speaking of this forced deportation, I would only mention here that because of these and these phenomena, and I'm afraid that in European countries there will be more and more, which is why we were very skeptical and told you, I think that this was the first law that was proposed here, they were amendments to the law on extraparious procedure, where it's supposed to be, you adopted this law, regardless of what we warned it could be very dangerous, that someone could be enrolled in the birth certificate if two witnesses were provided to confirm that he was born, for example, in Leskovac. Of course, we've talked here for years about helping people we call legally invisible. Some are estimated to be currently living in Serbia by about 7,000. They're people with no rights because they couldn't provide any papers. So, starting with not enrolling in the birth certificate, all the other problems, and schools, and citizenship, and voting rights, and so on. However, what you adopted the other day is very dangerous in light of everything that is currently happening in Europe. So, there is a legitimate concern that the people that France, for example, did recently, are going to do it somewhere in front of the president, that a whole group of people have deported, this time they are not in Serbia, because they knew their country of origin, which is even an EU member, but there is simply such a danger and that law is not good. When it comes to these agreements on a "stand by" arrangement with the UN, etc., I absolutely do not want to talk about it in detail, I think Mr Milos Jovanovic and Mr Palalic explained it very well, in detail and professionally. I'll simplify it to the people's dictionary. You inherited, that's what we were talking about today, you inherited a lot of agreements, a lot of contracts. You inherited an entire network that involved Serbia in various bodies. With this government coming, Serbia, I hope that this will not be the case, you promise, has absolutely turned towards becoming a member of the NATO Pact. We hope that you will prevent these flows, which the previous government has begun, from happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2047	Thank you very much. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2048	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I will, because of the time in which we are located and because of the commitments that await us in the next day, very briefly refer to the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria, precisely from that aspect the minister mentioned as very important co-operation in Algeria, as the largest African country. The country literally located in our region, a country that has been in slavery for 3,000 years and 130 years under colonial slavery. One of the last North African countries to emerge from the colonial slavery of the then French Republic. The situation is the regulation of relations, especially in the areas of military co-operation and military industry during the period of the former Yugoslavia and the frameworks of Serbia's military industry. We must note, Mr. Minister, that since 2003, it has started since then, in part and later, continued policy, especially these five years, a project to neutralize the defence forces of Serbia and the military industry. Even though the military industry managed to survive this so-called. A criminal enterprise, I'm convinced that SNS and you as her representative will not be on this road. The peace operation project is exactly what we as a country should be proud of and participate in, and this continuity of the government is indeed a positive thing, but what concerns Serbia's co-operation earlier in the former Yugoslavia, the SFRY and the current situation cannot be praised much. This is mainly co-operation in training certain personnel of the defence forces of the Republic of Algeria, and with cooperation with a certain part of the military industry. I must remind you of one situation, to ask a question both to you and to the public prosecutor and to the prosecution of organised crime, to knowingly destroy the military-building operation of two top units here in Belgrade, Beli Potok and Kraljen, during the ministry of the last defence minister and their practical inventory from the first category of funds that we could be proud of inherited by the former JNA. The Serbian army also inherited them with these works and these capacities of the people that were in those units, we can truly be proud and have all the indicators that we are present today, given these indicators in the territory of North Africa and the Middle East and the destruction of these capacities in terms of expenditure, setting up a zero point from the construction units of the White Stream and the Kings. Please, the situation to be checked by the Public Prosecutor's Office and you as Minister of Defense and your associates, that these machines, otherwise from the first category, have been spent. Later on, various friends, the godmothers of certain ministers participated in the realization of jobs in Kolubara, not far from then in the realization of jobs at the Ladjevac airport, and with all these machines and facilities and people who, in their best years and with best experience, were pre-restrained and declared a technological surplus, and could also be raised in Algeria, with bridges, shelters and command bases, sea ports, airports and all those inherited by the former JNA military and the threat of capacity and part of the situation when we listen for days. I am sorry that there is no DS representative, at least not in that professional sense, and especially former Minister Sutanovac, that he also answers these questions. Please, it is indeed an amazing project, the destruction of the defence industry, the destruction of Serbia's military, the destruction of its capacities. I hope that we no longer need to discuss this situation and that the SNS and the ruling coalition will at some point compromise the legality and provisions of our constitution and everything that has been brought here, but I am asking you, and in writing, because of the lack of time, that the Ministry of Defence may discuss and see the situation that has knowingly led to the violation of the reputation of the Serbian Army, especially the elders and members of the Serbian Army. What I have often moved in this Parliament and received answers, you can find in the Ministry of Defence that the situation in Serbia – the economy is destroyed, the culprits know perfectly well, the situation is that we do not have defence forces, quality defence forces, who is responsible for this and all abuses and actions, and construction mechanisms, the relatives of ministers and direct ministers and in Kolubara and participation in the Brodjevci airport, its construction and the situation that has come from the best quality machinery to expenditure. Those leads are indeed both the public prosecutor's office and the organized crime prosecutor's office are to be followed and I hope you get into all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2049	Based on what replica? Injury of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2050	Advertises Article 107. – The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Why? With all due respect to his SNS counterparts, he mentioned some criminal activity by former defence ministers. I look forward to a session that continues to work in peace missions. I expect the minister to explain to us the Declaration of the Security Council gender and security. What's going on in that field? But if a colleague has information that someone's been acting criminally, then that information should also be given to the organs. I don't think the National Assembly is the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2051	I don't think there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, regardless of the harsh word, if you take an article 107 and read it well, then you yourself will understand that there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2052	I'll be brief. I thank you for giving me your word. I cannot agree with Mr Rogovic's discussion on the quality of our defence forces. Would we all like the situation to be even better. I am confident of that, but I want to go public with the citizens of Serbia to say that the army of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence like those who would have to guarantee, above all, territorial integrity, but those who need to protect this country are qualified. I want everyone who speaks with understatement, I don't mean in a political sense, who, by otherwise, speaks of our army, that our army is still a very respectable force throughout the region and that everyone needs to know that. In doing so, those who know me know I'm also pessimistic, and I'm always unhappy, but when I tell you that, I say it with full seriousness. As for the second part of your discussion, Mr. Rogovic, you know how it goes in the military, and how it goes through the Ministry of Defense and when it comes to the Military Police, the criminal investigation group, then you know that certain things have already come to an end, so that everything that exists as a possible indication that any kind of abuse has been done somewhere, and I wouldn't say such heavy words as you used, the competent state authorities will take all the necessary measures and that's the thing that guarantees you and you don't have to have any doubts about it. Anyway, it's good that we're never satisfied with what we have. I think it's important that we don't underestimate ourselves, or the people who work hard and hard, but that we try to find the right place, and that people be much more calm in our country, that they know that there are still those who care about their safety today, about their security in the defense of this country. I understood your best intentions, and in line with that, we will behave and behave in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2053	National MP Miroslav Petkovic has given up. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2054	President-in-Office, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me, in a brief address, to state the position of the SPS, in fact the parliamentary group of SPS, on these agreements that are on the agenda. We look at the proposed laws through a positive prism and certainly, at first, we will vote for them, because this field and our country's activity through certain resolutions, such as the Ministry of Defence, then the Ministry of Defence, as well as other resolutions that carry out these international activities and contacts, in one affirmative way present our country's policy and contribute to one better integration and co-operation with the world. That's very significant. Certainly, the Ministry of Defence, for its part, and also for the MUP, has important jobs on the international agenda. It is almost inconceivable that these resolutions remain bewitched for themselves, dealing with the problems that are within our country. Today in the current world, something like that is absolutely unimaginable. Our country's participation in UN peace operations does not violate the policy of military neutrality, and I believe that Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, on the one hand, who is responsible, heads of the government which is also leading the policy, foreign policy of our country, on the other hand, and as interior minister, on the other hand, the first Deputy Prime Minister and defence minister present. I think they're on the same course of respect for previous decisions on what is military neutrality. We don't doubt it as a group of MPs. They also have a wide field of building certain relations that will be useful for our country and for all citizens of Serbia in their areas. So, this agreement here treats the relations of the Republic of Serbia and Algeria in co-operation in the area of defence, we from the SPS parliamentary group look in a positive way and approve of such an agreement, without doubting what it was at the time it was signed, at the time of the previous defence minister, Mr Sutanovac. I think that, in particular, when it comes to this agreement or some other agreements, and in particular in these agreements, because that is on the agenda, we think that these agreements do not violate the line of our policy that is on the line of defence of Serbian national interests, that is, the national interests of the state of Serbia. The explanation given by Mr. Minister on the conclusion of this agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Algeria gives a good picture of what is the history of our relations in the previous time, but also of the perspective of good relations and benefits that will result from such relations through conclusion and certain jobs, through the engagement of our dedicated industry, our capacities, through what follows. That's encouraging. So, we in these international contacts when we have, when it comes to what the defense is and these defence affairs, or what police co-operation is, we can't be isolated from the world and from relations with other countries, simply, we can't be autistic and run one such policy, afraid of some consequences that we keep in mind. Of course, we need to be careful about everything because we have enough experience, because we have, I say, events that have hit us over the head in the past, but also, with one optimism, one positive way to look ahead and to build good relationships that will present us as a land that is perspective and capable of leading a good international policy and that will find its place in these relationships. I would just like to say a few more words about this bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the readmission of a person not legally staying and the protocol to implement an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the readmission of a person who is illegally staying. It is important to say that in the time of the major transition changes and the processes that have taken place, above all, in the area of Southeast Europe, we have an increased level of illegal migration, in this particular case, from the direction of the Republic of Moldova to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and we can say vice versa. Although it is a higher direction and higher level of these migrations from the Republic of Moldova to Serbia and then via Serbia to the West. Of course, such illegal crossings generate the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings, white slaves, prostitution, various criminal acts and acts, etc. Of course that means one different communication between our country and a concrete country, as well as other Southeast European countries. In that sense, this agreement, signed here by Ivica Dacic as minister at the time, is actually another one in a series of agreements on police co-operation with other countries, which has contributed to an international plan to reduce crime or even some major phenomena, such as terrorism or other crimes. It's very important and it's on the same level with what the Department of Defense's work is on the second plan. All in all, not to owe, I think that we can in general look at all these international agreements that have been on one course of our policy as acceptable and that we should support them. Of course, I think that as a parliamentary group, we also support the fear or reminder of some other parliamentary groups that there is always a danger of turning away from the course of that policy that is important for the preservation of our country's national interests, and of course we take care of it, but certainly we cannot be so autistic and that we are afraid of everything and everything and that we must be open and optimistic about what is positive with one hope that Serbia is certainly through such contacts, through such agreements, through such agreements, in fact paving its way towards a better future, building trust, and it will certainly benefit each plan, economic, political and other. In voting day, we will support these agreements and vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-20-0.u2055	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint single search. I am informing the MPs that we will continue our work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m.
