ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 125 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 85 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. Please insert your cards now. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 131 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Rule 88(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since today is Thursday on the basis of Article 287(2). Today's Rules of Procedure have the right to request information and explanations on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure. Before that, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on behalf, members of the Svekine National Political Consultative Conference led by Vice-President Jean Rongming, who is on official visit to the Republic of Serbia. He's about to enter the National Assembly Hall and monitor his work from the grand hall gallery. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic, president of the SP-DHSS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3968	Dear President, dear colleagues, I would like to ask for an explanation from individual ministries and ministers. I didn't get a chance, because the vice president of parliament wouldn't let me do it, breaking that Rules of Procedure. When we talked about amendments to the Data Protection Act, to ask some very important questions and I will do so now, because it is necessary that with the practice of collecting data on citizens, the most diverse nature, such as national, religious, political, disease and everything else. So, to stop with that practice in illegal archives. I'll ask a question or he could explain to me the police minister how parking services come to home addresses, those people who don't live in a given parking zone, but they broke their rules, in writing warning them to pay the fine. Does the Ministry of the Interior have the right to give parking services information on vehicle owners according to the license plate? This is a very important topic. This is a topic affecting a large number of Serbian citizens, and to answer me whether it is in accordance with the laws that the City Hall or the City Assembly is charging traffic tickets for illegal parking. Furthermore, I want a notice from the Minister of Justice or the Ministry of Justice, yet it continues to refer to this topic. How is it possible that on the basis of Article 146? The criminal code, therefore, unauthorized data collection, has so far not reached any judgments. This is a question for the justice minister who took office relatively recently, which concerns former ministries and former governments that have done nothing about it. According to the Law on Electronic Communications, adopted in this Assembly, BIA has the right to control communications in telephone and internet networks without a court order and to keep these data for a year, in case they need them to protect national terrorism or organised crime. The problem is that few people believe, given that the legacy in the BIA, in the 1990s left tails in connection with all those unkind and unfortunate events. Few people believe that they will not listen to either the Internet or the telephone communication that they will not overstep their powers and that they will not collect data for some personal accounting or personal data archiving of individual people, for which part of the BIA is interested or those people who are in the BIA. That's why I'm not surprised when I've brought up these problems, which is still the same as the previous 12 years, there's a lot of resistance to transparency in the work in the Security Service and there's a lot of resistance to opening the file. I hope that in the future we will have a different relationship with these problems and in this respect, the support of the SPO will not be left behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3969	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3970	Dear President, dear fellow MPs, my question has been addressed to the President of the Assembly. In this morning, the National Minority MP group, the People's Party and rich Serbia received an e-mail from fellow URS MPs, the Party Together for the Forest, and that of MPs Slavica Saveljic, Sasa Milenic and Dr Nikola Jovanovic, who, as I understand it, informs the entire parliament that from today they will not participate in the work of parliament, for the reasons why they have stated, alarming things and facts and those as MPs have no protection from this respected home. In fact, the entire public of Serbia has been familiar with the developments in Kragujevac in the past month, i.e. one side, with one sighting of these events. I think it is devastating for this Parliament that, if other fellow Members of Parliament have received this e-mail, and you as president, by keeping your mouth shut, or we approve of the position of these MPs who have decided to resort to one drastic measure that they do not participate in Parliament's work at all at all, or by silence we approve of the actions they are complaining about. This time, it is even a very drastic event, where they say they are threatened, that investors are at risk, to be pressured by the MUP on some of the leaders in Kragujevac. I don't want to judge, I don't know the truth, as none of the MPs here in parliament know, but we've been bombed every day by a statement from this political party. I would also like Parliament, or you, President, to take steps and to learn the true truth and to inform this Parliament and us as MPs what is actually happening in Kragujevac and who is right and why MPs must give up working in this House if none of us are familiar with it. You know, I have addressed you personally, that two MPs of the People's Party are suffering certain pressures from an informal group of people, I say informally because they are not in parliament, and that we really must in some way protect all MPs in this work. Of course, we are not yet ready to inform the public what this is about, nor this Parliament, but we believe that we should also react by all of us in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3971	Thank you. As far as this is concerned, I have not yet been informed by these MPs of any reason why they do not participate in the work of the National Assembly, but I remind them and the public and everyone else that the MP, in accordance with the law, is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly. All rights and obligations that the MP draws from the law and the Rules of Procedure are required to achieve in this House and is obliged to achieve by participating in the work of the National Assembly, especially if he receives compensation for this work. We believe that all the rights that MPs have can seek in this House and that all rights outside Parliament can be sought by participating in the work of the National Assembly, as you have institutionally addressed, so I think they too have the right. Not getting into it until they officially address the National Assembly or me that I can tell what the reasons are, I really can't give a comprehensive answer, which is why they don't participate in the work of the National Assembly, because I don't have any official document about it, but I'm going to try to find out what the reasons are and try to remove those reasons and make it possible for the National Assembly to function perfectly normal. The next to be reported is the People's MP, Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3972	Thank you. The President-in-Office, I am asking the Director of the Office for the Katastration of the Republic of Serbia, and I am interested in how many thousands of hectares of cooperative agricultural land are owned by agricultural cooperatives and their legal followers by municipalities in Vojvodina are privatised, when it comes to social and not cooperative, or private property? Why did the Catastrian Service ignore the provisions of the Cooperatives Act, and what does the Service do to correct these illegal acts? The last question is also the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, how much unauthorized privatisation of the cooperative country and other assets, the usurped assets from 2005 to today are in the process of implementing Article 95. The Cooperatives Act brought back to farming cooperatives? How many proceedings before the competent authorities of local self-government pursuant to Article 96(2). Cooperative law in motion? In what municipalities and what phase and what is the Ministry of Agriculture doing to address the problem of usurpation of illegal privatisation of the cooperative country and other cooperative assets? I would also ask the finance minister – how many agricultural cooperatives have addressed the minister since 2005 to this day for the return of the country and other cooperative assets as a second-degree body, by appeal to the decision of the local self-government authority? What has the Ministry of Finance done to resolve the situation resulting from the privatisation of agricultural cooperatives and their legal followers being ignored by the provisions of the current Cooperative Act? Also, I want to realize that the past government in the last term has prepared the Cooperatives Act, but I'm also interested in when will the new Government, in fact, be able to reach the Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3973	Thank you. Let me once again welcome the delegation of the Svekine National Political Consultative Conference, led by Vice President Jean Rongming, who is now at the National Assembly Gallery. Please welcome our guests. The next registered MP is Miljenko Deretta.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3974	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. I'm putting him on the Women's Against Violence Network initiative. Namely, four SOS phones have been shut down for victims of violence in the Great Plan, Smederev, Užica and Kruševec. These SOS phones aren't shut down because there's no more violence there, but because these SOS phones have run out of funds. At the same time, these funds have reached them on budget line 481, which has been allocated to civil society organisations, and last year the Directorate for Gender Equality left unexpended two million dinars, which have returned to the budget, which would have been enough precisely for the one-year functioning of these SOS phones. This year, there are two million and 400,000 dinars in the rebalanced budget. I hope they'll be spent on SOS phones this time. I have to say that in cities where SOS phones exist, according to a survey made by the network, 87% of the population think SOS phones should exist. What's interesting is that there is information on the Ministry's website that 14 state institutions, of which 13 social work centres, have taken over SOS's phone, and that would be very interesting and good, and by any chance someone doesn't try to answer those phones, and when someone answers that phone, they're surprised and they say, no, this isn't an SOS phone, this is a social work centre that doesn't deal with it. The question arises – why does it happen like that? For the simple reason that according to the new Social Protection Act, NGOs, i.e. civil society organisations, may be service providers. In order for them to be service providers, they must meet certain criteria. When the "Network" addressed the ministry, it was said that the intended transfers were not made because it is awaiting the adoption of sublegal acts. Sublegal acts are not adopted so that within a period of two years, which is likely to be one of the criteria prescribed by the Council of Europe, social work centres, so to speak, and meet the criteria and thus become the beneficiaries of those funds at the expense of civil society organisations doing the job properly. Here is a system where the state obstructs the independent work of civil society organisations, all in its intention to take over unskilled, to do part of the work that is absolutely not authorized to do. I ask the question – when will the necessary sublegal acts be adopted to regulate and establish the standardisation and licensing of relevant civil society institutions to perform this type of service that the law allows? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3975	Next reported is MP Janko Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3976	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. In fact, our country, the Republic of Serbia, is one of the countries in Europe with the largest number of members of its people living outside the borders of that country. It is estimated that around four million Serbs are outside Serbia's borders. Among these people is a number of other people who are emigrants, or who live in other countries. The country's obligation under the Diaspora Law and Serbs in the region is also to take care of these people. These are a number of problems, not to mention Croatia, Macedonia, Slovenia, Albania, Romania less, but also the countries of the former Yugoslavia. People living in these areas, members of the Serb people, have many problems. The previous government took care of when it passed legislation from that area. Some obligations have also been established for state authorities. Unfortunately, this government has so far shown no hearing of the problem. I ask the question to the Prime Minister – which is why more than three months since the formation of the government so far has not been established by the Serbian office in the region and in the diaspora, although the law has committed itself to this, and the law itself has proposed? Officials working at the Ministry of Diaspora and Serbs in the region, which included the Ministry of Faith, are now sitting unemployed. They work and come to work, receive wages, and do nothing, do not do what is their responsibility, to respect the Law on Government, ministries and the Law on Diaspora and Serbs in the region. I ask the Prime Minister – when will he appoint the Director of the Diaspora and Serbs Office in the region and when will he start fulfilling the legal obligations in the area? On the other hand, I ask the President of the Republic, who also has obligations under the Law on Diaspora and Serbs in the region, to chair once every three months a meeting where they attend, alongside him, the Prime Minister, the responsible ministers, the president of the Assembly and representatives of Serbs in the region? He has so far, although already headed the Republic for about five months, has not called any meetings. So he's not interested in this subject, by all accounts. I ask the President of the Republic – when will the meeting be called and when will the constitutional, or legal obligation begin to be realized? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3977	Next reported is Mr. Marko Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3978	I want to inform this high home of the Serbian state that between 07:00 and 07.30 in the morning, the Serbian Ministry of Interior arrested Slavoljub Jovic in a hospital circle in Kosovo Mitrovica. The members of the MUP came to "Micubishi - Pajera" without registration marks and along with a sanity vehicle with Belgrade license plates. His arrest took him to the King's prison, and everyone, the whole column headed by the arrested, crossed the so-called. Inconsequential roads, not respecting the law signed by the police minister with Eulex. It is certain that this way and the arrival of Serbian police from the space of Cosmeta do not welcome, not in this way, and especially with the phantoms, as it has been done and done. Kosovo Police Service reactions and Eulexes are lagging behind, making it clear and loud that an agreement has been made between the Republic of Serbia's MUP and so on. Kosovo police forces in Pristina. What I want to ask as a question – will the Serbian Ministry continue to come and arrest others, not just Serbs? For example, will Hashim Thaci arrest for whom the Serbian Ministry of Serbia issued an arrest warrant in 1996 for the murder of three Serb police officers and the wounding of two, or that the Public Prosecutor filed the same Hashim Thaci's criminal charges for endangering the integrity of the Serbian state because he made a secession of the southern Serbian province? It would be a very bad message, because then there is discrimination between Serbs and Albanians, because for Serbs, one rule applies to Albanians the other. Or is the arrest of Hashim Thaci going to take place on the Chapras divan in Brussels? The reason why Slavoljub Jovic was arrested is the alleged wounding of two KFOR members. We welcome Serbia's MUP and the Serbian state's care for KFOR members, but we also want this state to take care of Serb citizens in the KIM territory. I say this given that about 11 Serbian citizens were wounded about a year ago by KFOR members. All wounds were inflicted from the back, which means, in a situation when they were running away. If it is a peace mission, and since our state's reaction was nothing at all, I assume that the new government will simply go ahead and ask the Security Council for a proper investigation, to see why Serb civilians and not just them were wounded, but even the sanitary vehicles were solved, above all, by bullets from German and US KFOR members. I think it would be a very bad message that this country only cares about KFOR members and doesn't care when KFOR members shoot you in the back of an innocent and unprotected people. What can still be said is that this arrest is falling, according to numerous political analysts, at the time of the arrival of Hillary Clinton and Catherine Ashton, so they assume it is another contribution to Serbia's alleged European future and perspective. My question comes down to this -- will the Serbian Ministry of Interior continue the arrest of others, not just Serbs living in the KIM area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3979	National MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3980	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed governor of the NBS, I'd like to ask a question and give you one piece of information. So, what's this about? This government has decided to implement the money flows by going where they're meant. This does not happen in some local self-governments, such as Belgrade and such as Novi Sad. The GSP in Belgrade has opened a tender for the purchase of 180 buses. None of our domestic bus manufacturers can participate and meet the conditions of that tender. The price difference is around 100,000 to 150,000 depending on which bidder will be accepted. So for that difference, you can buy 20 to 30 buses. I don't know how long we're going to let our local authorities make their own decisions about people's money. My question is for the Minister of Business, Mr Dinkic and all other ministers who have or will intend to discuss tenders to deal with these tenders in order to save some money. When it comes to information, the previous government in Novi Sad ordered lighting columns from France. The price difference is around 15,000 euros. How long will the authorities at the local level behave like people who have people's resources and don't waste that money? We need to focus on making money flows add up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3981	Thank you. Since no more than the president, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the next MPs, Borislav Pelevic, Jelena Mijatovic, Vesna Kovac. In accordance with Article 86(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft law in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by a representative of the proposing Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic, governor of the National Bank of Serbia. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the sitting, pursuant to Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts under emergency procedure. The government has proposed putting the draft law on confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the state of Palestine on the avoidance of double taxation against income taxes, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 26 October 2012. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 143 out of the total – 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The National Bank of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 30 October 2012, is the 1st point of the proposed agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 120 against – four abstentions – there is no, no vote – 48 out of the total – 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, v – five, abstentions – there is no, no vote – 46, out of the total – 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, in general. Dn e v n ir e d 1. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. We're going to work on a set agenda. You received a bill from the National Bank of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since no one has suggested that time be doubled, the total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours; the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - one minute and 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia - 30 minutes; the Democratic Party of Serbia - the Democratic Party of Serbia - the Democratic Party of Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the United Regions of Serbia - 18 minutes; the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democratic Party - 16 minutes and 48 seconds; the Democratic Party of Serbia - the Democratic Party of Serbia - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of New Serbia - nine minutes and 36 seconds; the group of the United Pensioners of Serbia - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group of the Serbian Democratic Party – 10 minutes and 48 minutes; the parliamentary group of New Serbia - nine minutes and 36 seconds; the group of the Single Serbia - eight minutes; the group of the group of the Serbian group of the six-members; the six-member group of Serbia's and the six-members group of Slovenes; the six-members, the ethnic group of the ethnics, the Serbian group of the six-members – the six-s, the ethnic group of Serbia-s, the ethnic group of Serbia-s; the ethnic group of Serbia, the ethnics, the ethnics, the ethnic group of Serbia, the ethnics, the six-s, the ethnic group, the ethnic group, the ethnic group, the ethnic group, the ethnic group of the ethnic group, the ethnic group of Serbia group, the ethnic group of Serbia, the ethnic group of the group of the ethnics, the ethnics, the group of the ethnic group of the ethnic group of the ethnic group of the group of the ethnic group of the ethnic group of the ethnic group of the ethnic group of Serbia, the ethnic group of Serbia, the ethnic group of the ethnics, the group of the group of the group of the ethnics of the group of the group of the group of Serbia. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall, by mutual agreement, determine no more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the representative of Serbian National Bank Governor Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3982	Thank you, Mr. President. I am always happy to return to this house as a representative of the NB who proposes amendments to the NBS Act, which was adopted as a proposal by parliamentary groups in this parliament in early August. Before I begin to explain the law, I want to give you an apology that these changes are being considered by an emergency procedure, but also to explain to you the reasons why this happened. Given that on this agenda, Parliament's session and the selection of members of the Council, which we are obliged together as MPs, the Finance and NB Committee to end the selection of all bodies necessary for the work of the NBS in full capacity, given that there have been public objections from those with whom we want to co-operate, I mean the international public, I mean the European Central Bank, the IMF, the European Commission and that these objections have largely been pre-removed in public, and that they have not been able to accept the advice of those we also wish to co-operate with and to compare, but we want to show that those who are defined for the European path and co-operation with the world have not been elected by the newest in the world or that we do not need to accept the advice of those with whom they want to work and to be compared, and although we do not always show us as a country that the rules that we are relevant to the members of the Council have been elected members of the Council, and that we have been able to do so much of the right to do so much of the Council, and we all of the right to do so. In addition to this apology and gratitude to the leadership of the Assembly, which they had the understanding and allowed to put this on the agenda, in this way, I would like to say that we did not use the Institute for the Rules of Procedure, that immediately after this debate in principle the debate was opened in particular, although it is possible, because the President of Parliament, and I thank him for that, would not have been the first to use this institution, although it exists in the Rules of Procedure. I hope that the time that was short for the debate, in principle, will be replaced by the time you will have to discuss the amendments, for which we will be fully open, to hear the arguments. As I was informed, according to the president's plan, the amendments will not be discussed before Monday. Which means we'll have plenty of time to consider a few of the changes that we've made in this proposal. The reason why we have come out with these amendments is to bring the provisions of the National Bank Act closer to the provisions of the EU Treaty, especially the provisions of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and the European Central Bank itself, given Serbia's strategic definition, which is the accession of Serbia to the EU. My pleasure is that we had the most understanding in clarifying the misunderstandings, the misunderstandings with the European Central Bank, because in the bodies of that bank there are people who are authors of theoretical works based on which a previous part of the amendment law was made. Regardless of what was brought in relatively quickly, it was not written quickly, because it was done by people who have been dealing with this matter for years, studying positive and parallel experiences of what is called best practice in the EU. We took advantage of the opportunity to carry out the technical order of the law. It is with these changes that Article 1 begins where what the lising business has called precisely the business of the financial lease. What interests citizens most is that we have precisely defined that the National Bank, which is rightly perceived by the public as someone who is in charge of controlling banks in the sense of applying the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, is now operating under this law precisely and in the affairs of the protection of rights, the interests of users of services provided, not only by banks and financial lenders, but also by insurance companies and companies for the management of voluntary pension funds. What's most interesting to the public or to those who want to say that we've come back for correction in a short time, I have to give two information that's a fact. This time, the amendment and supplementation is proposed by the National Bank, and the law that was the parliamentary majority in early August. In order to say correctional, they would have to be the same promoters, and since they didn't like that argument not to be used and used in the debate on this law. What was the most disputable? Why this time the Statute of the National Bank is adopted under this bill, or approved in the National Assembly. That's where we come up with the thing that was the stumbling block and that's getting rid of it. Independent institutions, including the National Bank, the first independent, to say the most independent, have been treated as independent but also responsible in EU legislation. Years ago, by cheating laws, in a desire to quickly reach lost years back, the word responsibility was translated by word responsibility, which meant putting under control and supervision as a responsibility, rather than responsibility in terms of an account that every independent institution in the world has. This word is translated as accountability in English, as an account, but it is not a use in our language, and it has created confusion among those who have read this language, translated from those who have not been fully in matter, but for them the language of responsibility was something that could have been translated in a completely wrong word. When I say the understanding of the European Central Bank, which we encountered, it was exactly that sentence that we immediately understood. The more independent someone has, the more responsibility he has for the account. Who does the National Bank account to? Only to this House, parliament, and not to advance, seeking consent to anything, but to ex-post later, when it has already made decisions, when it writes its statutes. However, the argument, indeed well-intentioned and those we wish to co-operate with, was as follows: if the governor is elected by the National Assembly, if the executive committee which makes up the Vice-Government also elects the Assembly, there is no need for the statute proposed by the Executive Board to the Council, and the council of the Republic Assembly, to be adopted with the third type of security that citizens through parliament have this instrument of responsibility of the National Bank to account them. So, the council is elected by the Finance Committee, also representatives of the Republic Assembly. With the election of a vice governor, director of the Bank Control Board, also the Assembly. It's an argument everyone has to comply with and come to, as I have come here, that he doesn't have to adopt the statutes, approved by the Assembly, which has never changed him before. When I say so far, I've been thinking about 2007 since that practice was introduced. So, this practice existed, but only since 2007 when the Assembly had not changed its statutes, it had simply taken note of the statutes proposed by the Executive Board, adopted advice and submitted insight to the National Assembly. What's interesting about this whole thing? The National Bank of Serbia did not have a statute from 2003 to 2007, nor was it adopted by the National Bank itself, neither by the council nor by parliament, nor by any other institution. On the day of the adoption of the amendments to the Law on the National Bank in 2010, many of us here participated together in the debate on this law, many missed, even to me, that one member of the law was then abolished the Law on the National Bank i.e. The National Bank statute was adopted in 2001 by the National Bank of Yugoslavia. In 2010, only this practice was established and introduced in some legal framework, that the statute that regulates the rules of operations of the National Bank after the Law on National Bank once again exists as one of the most important legal acts. The raising of too much noise around the statute itself is again conditioned by the misunderstanding of the words – the statute, as we understand it in Serbia and the statutes as they understand it in the world. For the IMF, for example. The Statute of the IMF and for them is the Statute of the National Bank, in fact, a collection of decisions and solutions by the governor of the National Bank. Believe it or not, we should have explained that these are not the decisions of the governor and the solutions and acts he makes as individual acts, and that he is not asking for this consent from the National Bank, especially not in advance, but in the decision-making process, it is one lower-level act that is not a Rules of Procedure, and in these incompatible legal systems, it was not easy to clarify between us and them that the statute is not a Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the Executive Board or of the Council are very different. Or if I were to bring this matter closer to those who are not close to it, it would be the same as if a Law on the National Assembly were to equalize it with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since we eliminated this dilemma, we also accepted Article 6 which now says that the National Bank of Serbia has a statute to be published in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. Of the important changes that we present in these amendments and additions to you are that we have a complicated solution of connected persons, and taught by experience and by wanting to prevent the abuses that were in practice backwards, a little raving, I must admit, we have defined what is a connected person and what must not be a connected person in terms of the officials elected by the Assembly and we have taken over, by these changes, the solution that is being arranged and which is determined by the law governing the prevention of conflicts of interest in the performance of public functions. It's that second shift. The third thing that is being discussed today is this untimely replacement of members of the council. It really existed, we're introducing it again, but it insists that this kind of choice be applied to the election of the vice governor. I am responsible and you probably know that nowhere in the world there is a practice of choosing a vice governor in that first term for five, four, three, two or less years, but it was a practical experience in Serbia that was not bad. In fact, it still exists today, because two vice governors of the three elected were also formerly vice governors. To tell you the truth, I have the impression that someone wanted to test the good will of the National Bank or the governor, whether he wanted to come before you with changes. There was absolutely no need for that. Not only do I have a good will to come with a change, but ignorance doesn't justify anyone, and I will never allow myself to do that, but the mistake of the one who does or the previous promoter or this one, is absolutely not something you can't talk about. I think that we are all together in the same business of institutionalising the state of Serbia and making a maximum personal contribution to the choice of people, not to be guided by passion or by bad experience or by an accidental personal relationship with anyone and my desire to come and to defend these solutions in the Assembly is, in fact, managed. We accept the proposal of those we want to co-operate with, who have not put pressure on anyone who would like to say that – we have to because they asked for the IMF or the World Bank or the European Commission or anyone. There was absolutely no pressure. We come before you with a proposal not to get into the legal security of the elected vice governors, but to ensure in the next election that this multi-stage is provided in order to ensure also by law the formalised graduality of the election and that there is no change in all the vice governors at once. You will give your judgment on this and make your arguments. I believe that it is possible for both solutions, that we have implemented in fact that in the National Bank the change of governors and councils and vice governors was neither an earthquake nor any kind of public disturbance, which is also what is happening on the financial market, or what the National Bank can influence with its careful work, and that is, as far as possible, holding stability as the basic objective of inflation, attitude and course that is sufficiently talking about it. All people have been selected from the home itself, from the National Bank, even the Finance Committee has proposed a man for the Supervisory Authority, also from the National Bank itself, and none of the proposed persons has, as a qualification, political membership. I am personally proud of the selection of such personnel, and I would like that choice to end as soon as possible and not to waste too much energy on justice, because now we have to do our jobs and talk about these changes. All those who thought that the objections to the law and these misunderstandings would make it difficult for us to work or make relations more complicated with the international community, I want to thank you publicly, because they made it possible for us, with many of these financial institutions, not only legal departments, but for the first people of these institutions, to establish an excellent relationship of co-operation, understanding and conversation, and to believe me on the word, none of their remarks were either malicious, or difficult, but rather constructive, well-intentioned and welcome to consider. Whenever someone thinks they can hold you a little bit in the business, if you're someone who wants to have a good effect, then you're ready to use it the best way, and we at the National Bank have used it the best way and we have almost a very high level of compliance, which you saw in addition to the amendment of the law that has been delivered to you, that our compliance, which is not even necessary at this point, is largely achieved with the primary sources of EU law and with the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, Title 7. Economic and monetary policy, Chapter 2) Monetary policy, as well as Protocol No. 4 on the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, where we have a partial harmonisation which I will now explain to you, why it is partial and why this partial harmonisation is actually due to our constitutional solutions, where no official except judges and prosecutors can have that kind of protection as expected in the resolution of officials appointed to certain functions in the National Bank. In order to ensure the independence of the Central Bank and in order to prove that this independence exists, we have come at some point to the stage that we are expected to provide judicial protection in advance, and before it is resolved, for a functioner who, possibly under Article 28 of the Law, should be resolved. We have a solution with our constitution that members of 148 and 161 are entitled to this legal remedy only for dismissed judges, public prosecutors and their deputies. In fact, you know that Article 148 is prescribed that the High Council of the Judiciary makes a decision on discharge, but that the resolved judge has the right to appeal against such a decision to the Constitutional Court. In the event of the appeal to the Constitutional Court, no constitutional appeal can be made. An identical solution is also for public prosecutors, i.e. deputies. Noting that it is really necessary to provide such a protection for the officials of the National Bank, because we are confident that no one would take the decision that the conditions have really not come to this, bearing in mind also that we do not have the experience of specialised judicial authorities who know that they judge in the fields of medicine, information and technological crime, in the affairs of the National Bank, or monetary policy, and holding in mind that an independent institution really has the only authentic National Assembly who is the one who has the power to decide on that resolution, we have nevertheless come up with a similar solution that, like the judges, officials of the National Bank have the opportunity to address the Constitutional Court in the same way. I heard objections to this solution on the board. I'll be open to talking about it in amendments. I don't think, and I haven't changed my mind when I say that they shouldn't be protected by officials, including employees of the National Bank who, remember when we passed the amendments to the law, can only be held accountable if someone else proves that they've made a mistake with extreme intent or negligence. This level of protection would be, not independence, but a higher level of protection which, I must admit, I don't think it is necessary, but my personal opinion is that it is one of the opinions, because the executive board makes jokes to the governors and future director of the supervisory board. I will never give myself the right to have my personal opinion above those who are authorized by you, in the same way as members of the council, as well as you, each of you individually as an MP, until we agree here our position on this and respect the Constitution, to respect the independence of the National Bank, but also not to adopt a solution which is a mere form of respect for one's advice, and to be inapplicable in the sense of passing through these competent authorities and indeed that the legal provision is enforceable and enforceable. These dilemmas, I say, we'll talk both in principle and in detail. It's all about the changes that are contained in the law. There's another one where the governor decides only on alienation of assets that are mobile, and alienation of assets as immovable property cannot still have those powers. I believe that an individual, as responsible as he is, and safestan as it may be, must nevertheless, assuming that it is high values, have some kind of responsibility over it, because we have quite inherited problems from judicial proceedings for illegal cancellations in the National Bank itself for years back, in which the millions of euros went to empty restitution funds, which as a state should be dealt with in some special way. I'm not prepared to leave anyone, whoever it is, with such a right to decide on the property of all of us by their own means. The other provisions are a legal-technical editorial and my wish was to be as detailed as possible. I did not wish for stories, believe me, I wished for this home and my colleagues, but I wanted to provide all those notices and information about this law in the first address in order to clarify all possible misunderstandings at this very moment, but I will be, with thanks for listening to me, ready to answer your questions about the draft law on amendments and additions to the NBS Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3983	Thank you. After the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Nada Kolundji, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3984	Your Honor, Mr. President, I appeal to Article 103(1), which states that the MP has the right to point to the President on the violation of the Rules of Procedure which was made during the session. Since it is a particularly important topic, a subject that has been at issue since the start of the formation of this government, a topic which has caused many concerns and uncertainty, not only in the domestic public but also in the international public, so under the pressure of the international public, this law has now come into the assembly procedure, because of the fact that previous amendments and additions to the laws have been proposed by the MPs, that this law on amendments and additions to the NBS Act is proposed by the National Bank, we find it inadmissible not to be declared by the Government. We didn't get the government's opinion. Therefore, the government cannot be amnested by its own responsibility to settle an extremely important issue, which is so important that even the Constitution deals specifically with the position of the NBS. I know the Rules of Procedure say that we can discuss it without the Government's opinion, you don't have to bother looking for it, but I think I share the opinion of all citizens in this country, that such an important issue, especially with all the controversial things that have been going on with this law and elections, that is to say, the shift of the highest leadership in the NBS, that the National Assembly and all the MPs deserve that this debate doesn't begin until we get the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is not any question, this is a question of one of the most important institutions, a question of its constitutional position, a question of its position in the system and a question to which the government must answer. The government cannot hide behind a group of MPs, nor is it behind the elected management of the NBS, which has been elected under a law that is now being amended because the law was not in line with European standards and, in our deep confidence, was not in line with the constitutional position of the NBS either. I urge you to interrupt this session and request the government's opinion, so that in the government's opinion we continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3985	As far as your remarks are concerned, I believe the National Assembly may freely, without the Government's opinion, make decisions within the scope of its jurisdiction, which is in this case law-making. I believe that MPs have enough awareness of what they should do without any additional opinion. I wouldn't just involve the citizens in that, because you said you were convinced that all the citizens of this country share your opinion. I'm not sure that all citizens of this country share any individual opinion of any of us here. We are, however, representing citizens who voted for our political lists, so that citizens' opinion is proportionally represented by all MPs and does not present any individual MP in the National Assembly to all citizens of this country. I don't think we have any reason to interrupt the National Assembly session and that we should continue our work on the agenda. You're picking up the line? I have the right to comment, to say whether I am satisfied with your answer. ) The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3986	I just want to say that, of course, no one can be satisfied with what you've answered. Of course, the MPs are here who pass the final laws, but I wonder why we have a government, if this important issue is being covered up by the Government, and it doesn't plead, because I assume she's ashamed of the way it's been tattooed on the independence of the Central Bank. I want to make a statement in the voting day about the injury you've done.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3987	Of course we will. I'm just asking you not to tell anyone that you can't be satisfied because you don't represent everyone's opinion. So you can say that you are dissatisfied with that opinion and you have the right to do so. Mr. Djuric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3988	I think you've hurt Article 107. Rules of Procedure. I don't mind your arguing with Mrs. Kolundjia, but it bothers me when you overly or several times repeat obvious nonsense. I agree with you that no one has the right to say that it represents the opinion or interests of all Serbian citizens, especially in several party democracies, but I have heard you say that 20 times on television, also for many things that are more controversial. Even when you interfered or announced or prejudged the results of criminal investigations and court proceedings. If you expect something from the MPs, in this case from Mrs. Kolundjia, then I ask you to be the first among the equals, as head of this Parliament to rule and apply that standard to yourself first.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3989	National MPs Laslo Varga, Aleksandar Jugovic and Radojko Obradovic were reported in the electronic system. Do any of these MPs want to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) In this case, the People's MP Nebojsa Stefanovic appears. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3990	I want to say first, that I never said in my address that I represented everyone's opinion, not even all the MPs. I am fully aware that when I speak to the public, I represent my opinion or when I am authorized by the SNS parliamentary group, not even all coalition partners of our majority. Because of course I have no right to plead. I certainly never said that I represent the opinion of all, and especially not all Serbian citizens, since all Serbian citizens when they are united in voting for something, then that someone who gets votes from all Serbian citizens, or the largest number of Serbian citizens, will be able to say they represent Serbian citizens. I just wanted to point out in this case that I don't want to let anyone create a confusion in the democratic system, that it represents the voices of everyone, because I don't want to allow it to anyone who talks in this house, especially when I don't think they have a right to do that. That's all I wanted to point out. So, without any need to hurt anyone in this way, but to point out that I don't think anyone can say that it represents the voices of everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3991	Thank you. Representative for the Proposer, Governor Jorvanka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3992	Since the topic was the law where the formulation was used that the law introduced uncertainty and that there was a shift. The ones that aren't in progress, or they forgot to remind me. No one's been replaced. Sir, former Governor Šoškovic resigned and resigned from Deputy Governor Bojan Markovic who remained and we co-operated until the election of the new vice governors, of whom the vice governors and re-elected, the proposed elected Mrs Diana Dragutinovic and Ana Gligorijević, and instead of Bojan Markovic, who resigned, Veselin Pjescic was elected. So no one has been removed, but those who resigned are in the motion procedure that the law envisioned replaced by the new vice governors. What kind of uncertainty is this? This government, left with a budget deficit of 6.8%, has been invisible and unheard of so far. The government managed to sell euro bonds at the price of an entire percentage lower, i.e. by one percent cheaper 6,625% compared to the previous government that was "safe and stable". So much for the facts that talk about the uncertainty that the law has introduced and about the shifts you're misinformed by the public. Also, the oscillation is the course of selling foreign exchange reserves to react and maintain course talks about the fact that, after the adoption of the law and the work of the new leadership, one time was intervened from foreign reserves, with a minimum amount of foreign exchanges compared to the previous period in which 1.3 billion euros were spent on maintaining stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3993	In accordance with Article 27, and given that five MPs are currently registered in the electronic system, each order will allow for the right to replicate so that we do not abuse the right to breach the Rules of Procedure, because we essentially want to talk about the subject and this is in accordance with Article 27 and taking care of the agenda. If you wish to speak exclusively of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it implies my obligations and will slow down what I think is the will of the Members of Parliament to exchange mutual arguments with the representative of the promoters and each other. Therefore, the right to replicating this order will be given to Parliamentarian Laslo Varga, National MP Nada Kolundžija, MP Aleksandar Jugovic, MP Radojko Obradovic, MP Bojan Djuric. So, a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Here you go, straight to the replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3994	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, Madam Chairman, you have injured Article 103(3). – The President of the National Assembly shall give a word to the MP who shall indicate the infringement referred to in Article 1 immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. The proposing representative cannot engage in a controversy about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have violated the Rules of Procedure by allowing the proposing representative to interpret whether the Rules of Procedure have been injured and whether we have made a statement in the advertising of the Rules of Procedure about this or that. So, the president's representative forgets that he is not a folk MP, that he is not a politician and vice president of the party, but rather the governor of the NBS and a representative of the proposing party. He can't get a word in front of an MP who's looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and in that sense, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. What I also want to add, if someone here is to say that all citizens are not concerned about the state of the NBS and that the independence of the Central National Bank is being achieved, then they don't understand what it is. I'm not talking about everyone thinking what DS thinks, but everyone definitely thinks that when NBS is compromised, NBS independence, when trust is lost in international communities, in the IMF, it's certainly kept on the lives of every man in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3995	The proposal's representative's word was given already, and after the word was given, a call came for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I, as well as any participant in the session, have an obligation to draw attention to the respect of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which oblige all of us and, in that sense, is also a representative of the promoters, respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedures. It is up to you to seek a replica, and that is why it was my suggestion that all MPs should receive a replica in accordance with Article 27 and to clarify themselves. National MP Bojan Djuric, right on line. Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3996	Make it a straight line. I think we're in serious trouble now. So here were the interventions of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Kolundzhija asked for the session to be terminated, and in the meantime we entered into a fundamental, political debate and debate on this law where MPs are obviously unequal to the proposing representative, because after thirty minutes Mrs Tabakovic used to announce to us that justice would not be justified. In the meantime, you gave her one more word and now I'm not going in to see if you were responsible for it, Mrs. Comic or the President of Parliament, who, I really don't understand, for why I was advertising my injury to the Rules of Procedure, I claimed that Mr. Stefanovic, as Parliament Speaker, injured the Rules of Procedure. He chose to go to the messenger's bench and answer to me as a people's messenger. That's how we got into this whole mess. I am prepared, on my part, for the LDP at the moment to end this and to continue with the normal debate, so that authorised representatives of political parties enter the controversy with Mrs Tabakovic on the proposed solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3997	Thank you. National MPs who have been registered are MP Aleksandar Jugovic, MP Laslo Varga and MP Radojko Obradovic as authorised representatives of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3998	The Honorable chairman, colleagues and colleagues, is a little unusual, but I'll quote myself. I will quote parts of my presentation from 2 August 2012, when the first amendments to the National Bank Act appeared in parliament this year. "Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, even if everything is ideal when it comes to the National Bank Act, and it is not, it is important that the intention to bring down the independence of the National Bank of Serbia is destroyed." I'm going to skip a few paragraphs, and then, "And in the previous period, we've had the experience of passing certain laws, and later, under the pressure of Brussels, we're going to have to change them. That is why it is unnecessary to waste the time of MPs and the money of Serbian citizens for a session and for the adoption of laws which will have to suffer some changes later." I am still talking about the strong response from Brussels, so I ask the ruling coalition once again in the end to withdraw the law from the assembly procedure, because this will certainly slow Serbia's path to the EU. These were parts of my exhibition from August 2, 2012. I am pleased with Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic's explanation and it is quite correct and it is quite right that when someone ignores the possibility of reacting to certain international institutions, we know that Serbia wants to become a member of the EU and it is quite satisfactory to take steps quickly and to change those things in laws or in the laws that hinder us on that European path. So I've already warned what's going to happen to us. This experience of previous governments and previous years has been taught to us. But does it need to be the IMF, the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Council of Europe and other international institutions as co-ordinators of our behaviour? Wasn't it easier and more logical that you listened, talking to the ruling coalition, objections to the SPO? If I were to remind you, through history, we have proposed a lot of what if it had been accepted by the then authorities and all the authorities, today Serbia would probably be an EU member. If Kosovo's policy had been adopted, let's say, on December 9, 2011, we would probably have both the candidate status and the date of negotiations with the EU. Instead, brutal political retaliation was followed by both the attack and the SPO hacks because of the desire to bring the truth to light and because we asked the ruling coalition to only tell the truth and the only truth. I don't want to be hypocritical, I don't want to say that these amendments to the law are bad, but this is best possible at this point in time for continuing co-operation with all international institutions and for continuing that course that was promised in the election campaign and for which the lists that are now or which have made up the ruling coalition. I therefore hope for a reformed concept and system reforms, demonstrations and revisions of the Law on Restitution, the Law on the Pension System, the Law on Planning and Construction. In particular, my colleague Žika Gojkovic spoke about it a few days ago. The announcements came that it was more than necessary, and it particularly looks forward to us, to pass the Law on the Origin of Assets and to a different tax policy on capital, in order to be more effective, to tax tycoons in Serbia. All this has to do with the National Bank of Serbia. It all has to do with strengthening our currency. All this has to do with a different policy, which in the announcements gets the wish to finally deal with those people who robbed Serbs. So I repeat, as I have spoken both the previous time and the previous session, and I will speak at every session, the ruling majority will have the support of SPI and DHSS. And one commendation, as well as the election for the National Bank of Serbia Council, which is yet to come on the agenda. The Serbian Renewal Movement will support the appointment of Prof. Miladin Kovacevic and Prof. Stojan Stamenkovic. I think they're a great choice, and I think that by some chance the SPO is in a position to appoint these people to head up, to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u3999	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4000	Mr. President, Mrs. Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to present on behalf of the SVM our considerable dissatisfaction and partial satisfaction, on the one hand, with the fact that this bill is on the agenda today, and on the other hand, with the essence of this bill. First of all, as far as the procedure is concerned, of course we cannot be satisfied with the fact that this important bill is being reconsidered by an urgent procedure. We have heard the explanation of a proposing representative who is, more or less, acceptable, but what is written in the light of the bill's proposal, I do not think, in any case, stands, since it is written in the explanation that this law is proposed to be adopted by an urgent procedure under circumstances which could not be predicted in advance. I don't think this is working. On 4 August, when this law was on the agenda, many MPs pointed to the consequences of those amendments and additions, and I think that, if nothing else, that circumstance should be taken into account when stating these reasons for an emergency procedure. Simply, many have warned of contradiction, or the fact that many of the provisions of that bill were not in line with European legal assets. On the other hand, it relates to the procedure, I think it is extremely bad that this bill came into the assembly procedure the day after the US State Secretary, or the High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy, of the EU. This is what I think he created in the public one premonition that this bill, because of the enormous pressure on the side, is in the congregation procedure and is in the congregation procedure and in an extremely urgent procedure. I think this has been done to harm European integration. Of course, I don't think that law was written the night between Tuesday and Wednesday, but regardless, I think it was worth a little attention and this fact. It is simply that many citizens of our country feel that many things happen under pressure and, unfortunately, this fact strengthens these arguments. What is positive about the procedure is the fact that not only the government’s proposals are soon coming to the order of the National Assembly, but also the proposals of other promoters. That was my colleague Mikovic's proposal, now the NBS proposal. I hope so, and it is a small recession that the proposal of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina on amendments and additions to the Law on the Budgetary System will be on the agenda so quickly. Then that would be some logical order of action. As for the substance, or content, we are pleased with the fact that these changes are on the agenda and that the proposed changes will be adopted. We are also pleased with the fact that the most important sentence in the argument, exactly what we said three months ago, is that further approximation of the provisions of this law, to the provisions of the EU Treaty, is one of the basic reasons why this law is being passed. We talked about it, and of course we talked about it in the sense that we challenged that bill that was on the agenda in early August. Of course we support the fact, i.e. the provision relating to the way it is confirmed, more non-confirmation of the Statute of the National Bank and, on the other hand, we support the provision, i.e. the addition of the provision relating to the way in which the officials of the National Bank are resolved. I'm referring to the intended possibility of judicial, or conditional judicial protection. But we are dissatisfied and cannot agree with the way this provision is formulated. Yesterday, the Legislative Committee was largely challenged by the constitutionality of this provision and it would be good to reconsider whether there is any solution entirely in line with the Constitution. Of course, there is a problem if the second part of the sentence is deleted, because in that case, the functionator of the National Bank would have the right to appeal and constitutional appeal and I understand that. In some countries this may be an example, it may not be good, but in some countries an even dispute is allowed, and that is another way and another solution to keep the possibility of a constitutional appeal in the next step. What is acceptable to us on the other hand is that there are still some provisions that, those who have submitted amendments to these provisions, are still not in line with the EU's legal assets, and this has been said today on the Committee on European Integration. I think these remarks are worth the attention and that it would be good to consider. What is crucial, this is our most important regret is the fact that this bill is on the agenda, most of it because of this fact, the smaller part because of the content itself. Clearly, no one was willing to take responsibility for what happened in early August. It is argued that there is a need to remove the doubts in the interpretation of the National Bank. I don't think there's any misunderstanding in the interpretation. There is one provision that is contrary to European law. There is no interpretation, and our expectation was that someone who put that provision into the law at that time, or that possibility, three months ago, was allowed to settle without judicial protection, to at least admit that he was wrong in the National Assembly. I think that would be logical and that would be much more correct. In the end, I would like to say that we are prepared to support this bill, provided that the provision on one side of the court or constitutional court protection is brought into line with the Constitution. On the other hand, those amendments are seriously considered, relating to other provisions and which do not comply with EU law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4001	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4002	I thank Mr. Varga for his discussion. I could start with this last thing you said, so that everyone who listens to us could follow. First of all, if we accept that the National Bank officials have judicial protection, neither you nor I know what's best not to disrupt the Constitution, we will seek a common solution these days. To what extent do they have a greater right to be protected as officials, from a state auditor or one of these officials? Isn't it State Auditor's, also someone very important or why a state auditor is more important than someone who runs the Anti-Corruption Agency, someone who's in RATEL or the Agency as an independent regulatory body, and even if we get to the minister? I'm really not ready to close my eyes to the diversity of those officials if you don't tell me who they are. We all think that the judicial branch of power between these three equal, a little more equal. Which is why someone who's been resolved in accordance with Article 28, should be the only one who has that kind of judicial protection and you resent, which last time was not, as contained in the law. I listen very carefully to you, I personally appreciate you, you and every MP, because I know how much effort we all put into this, but I'm not prepared to take it as a guilt. Believe me, I'm sooner than ready for you to blame anyone, anyone like the government to be all over the place. It is not true, the government must not give any advice or instructions. He can give his opinion that the National Bank doesn't commit. I know you believe my word, because you believe my actions, that I will not be bound by such opinions. What I said to my colleagues on the first day, I can do it from this pay phone again, very gladly, three months, four, I absolutely don't care. I will be the real governor of the NBS, who handles the facts and interests of Serbian citizens. Not by anyone's warrant. You know how long it takes me to get a warrant that someone insists on listening to? Two hours to pick up personal papers from the cabinet, that's all. After all, the time is right in front of us. It'll show up. I'm more than willing to express my gratitude to those who were quick to step up and prevent some major damage to those who didn't do their job well, and if you remember, we've all now narrowed down the story of whether the statute was being adopted here or in the NBS itself, and the reasons for the adoption of the new law were to strengthen the Bank Control and Control Authority and other financial institutions. There's a problem. One's been taken care of in silence. I have no intention when I say, in silence, I mean the National Bank, I answer for myself and my associates. All the other problems that arise in the world, perhaps even with us, the National Bank will so solve without the desire to involve uninvited ones in solving these problems and without the intention of raising unwarranted noise or causing unrest of any kind. It's our job, but trust me, if what was done wasn't done, maybe you didn't even know what would happen, but it's a good thing it worked out like this. So it's absolutely not hard for me to agree to a few, I repeat, you say a thousand times the pressure, I'll say a thousand times - not well-intentioned advice. Believe me, I haven't even got the news to look at it and hear that two distinguished ladies are here, because the level of my communication and my associates is with those who do business, who are compatible with ours. So those who run financial institutions are headed by them and we talk to them about this, not politicians. They're welcome to come and go. Even with the European Commission, courtesy of my always good colleague Gordana Komic, I got something from the European Commission this morning, here's a piece of paper. Something's up, something's up. Maybe this morning it arrived at the National Bank, because we're very open to communication. But with the level of political objections as the National Bank, we don't correspond, we don't talk. We listen to everyone, but my old ones have taught me a long time ago – listen to everyone's opinion, which means what the National Bank and its team decide and thinks is a failure that needs to be corrected, we will be happy to correct it, but we will always rather give in to the power of the arguments than to another power. I am pleased that the power of the arguments has led me here to defend these changes, and I will gladly accept your arguments in the amendments, and I am truly open to the debate in detail of all that is possible, to be on the best path for the EU and indeed on the best path to strengthening the independence of the NB, which must be a factor in the stability of the overall financial system, not only of monetary decisions, but also of keeping the banking system healthy and its control functions, where the National Bank must be someone who acts preventively, not a police officer who closes banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4003	Thank you. Mr. Varga has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4004	Just a short replica, and that's the first part of the governor's answer. The essential fault is that, it may seem formal, but it is very essential that in early August when the bill was amended, the proponent wrote in his explanation that there are no EU regulations governing this area. That was not true at that time, and it is not true at this time, and it is no accident that in this bill, the National Bank clearly quoted the EU regulation that is binding and binding on Serbia. It undertakes not because we are a member of the EU, but because we have taken over some of the commitments with our candidacy. I talked about it in detail in early August. They can be quoted or asked for some examples of which you spoke, about ministers, about the auditor, etc., various other independent institutions. There are also EU regulations, i.e. EU legal fluids, which are identically regulated by the possibility of their resolution. So, in this sense, the governors of central banks are not the only ones who deserve judicial protection. There is a elaborated system in the EU. It's not the most important thing. The most important thing is that in early August someone tried to create a picture that in this area or there are no EU regulations or they do not oblige us, and when the Commissioner for Enlargement was present in a small room several weeks ago, the European Commission report, then it was practically the same arguments that I made in this debate, he presented and confirmed the fact that and how we were obliged to take these provisions into account in early August. I say once again, we are pleased that these things are changing now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4005	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4006	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Governor, Vice-President of the National Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs, when we first adopted amendments and additions to this law in August, we had the opportunity to see that he met with criticism not only of the opposition, even of the extraparliamentary parties in the Republic of Serbia, but also of the criticism of the professional public, the European Commission, the World Bank, the IMF, and the criticisms of the European Commission were then very quickly evident in the European Commission report, which has just been evaluated by this law, then as a proposal by a group of MPs, as something which represents a step back in Serbia's EU accession process. We were against amendments and additions to this law in August, and we will be against them again. The reasons for that are numerous. I'll try to get them in my presentation. This was normally the first law that began to distance Serbia from this European path, the first law for which we had openly received objections from international and monetary institutions and political institutions that we had at the time, which is what most in this assembly decided to ignore. Afterwards, we had several more of these statements from various officials of our country, which could be classified in order to distance Serbia from the European family of countries that are disrupting relations in the region that are very difficult to build. However, I think that the National Assembly should be kept in mind that it is not the one who will make the rules for Serbia, according to the European Commission, which is still the only one who decides to do so, are moving away from joining the EU. Of course, in this discussion as well as when we first adopted this law, several of the most common words spoken by both MPs and by the promoters and by the professional and international public are – the independence of the NBS. The independence of the NBS, apart from being one of the main remarks made by both the European Commission and the IMF and the World Bank, is something that Serbia should take into account, all of which is to ignore those objections that have come from international institutions, because the independence of the NBS, except that it is extremely important for the functioning of the National Bank, defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is something that both the National Bank and this Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia should insist, all of which there are no objections from the European Commission and other institutions that have come to the Assembly and the National Bank and could be heard in public. And a few days ago in this assembly, on another occasion, when the president interrupted a session that was under way, we talked a lot about the independence and competences of the NBS, because the Bank Taking Act took a serious part of NBS jurisdiction, the Ministry of Finance took over. At the time, we had controversy with Mladjan Dinkic, who spoke in a rather offensive way not only about existing banks in the Republic of Serbia, but also about the National Bank, because if these banks really do so badly, then the National Bank does not take away their work permit. In light of this law, it states that this law is being adopted in order to take a positive step further towards its provisions of the EU Treaty, the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, and in particular the provisions of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, given the strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia to join the EU. Anyone who looks at this letter that came with the law would expect, in that case, that what was expressed in August as the European Commission's remark, the IMF, the European Central Bank will now be removed from these new amendments and additions. However, this law does not only eliminate what was stated as an observation in August, but today we received the opinion of the European Commission at a meeting of the European Commission's Committee on Integration, which the Governor says is not familiar with it. Your co-workers, who represented the law on the Committee on European Integration, also said that for the first time they saw the European Commission's letter, although it said that the NBS had been sent as a proposal. I think it's rather strange that if the law's intention really is to remove doubt, to get close to those international monetary institutions, in this case, not to ask for a preliminary opinion or a consultation or at least some kind of introduction of those who are competent to appreciate it with the content of the law. Namely, let's take it in a row. I will now try to sublime what the European Commission and the IMF have been the objections to the law before, as it is now, because it is not, and in response to Mr Varga, you said that it is a political opinion which is not binding on the NBS, however, the European Commission is quite clear in this letter that it is not only about its opinion, but also about the opinion of the European Central Bank and the IMF, which in no way are nor can it be political institutions. It is about institutions with which the Republic of Serbia must co-operate with its definition. What was the first complaint in August between both the European Commission and the IMF and the European Central Bank is the urgency that followed the adoption of this law. This time we have an even shorter deadline to pass this law. My criticism here goes primarily to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who, truth be told, is not the first to introduce a practice of sedation in order to hold a second session within the session, but you do so much more often than any other president so far. I am convinced that Mrs Tabakovic, as a longtime national MP, would have the understanding that you said that the Assembly session is currently under way and when it is over, that we will also adopt this law by an urgent procedure and that you will put it to the consideration of the MPs. I hope only, again, that I return to what Mr Varga said, that the urgency of the law, i.e. the proposals coming by emergency procedure, is not classified according to the proposal and that the bill proposed by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina on amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act, will be found before this assembly very urgently. I don't see why this law is more urgent than any other law, just because the legislator himself states that even the possibility of this and not being a substance regulated by the law is being considered, which relatables the very meaning of the law. What's the other thing that's back in all the objections that came to this bill in August, and yet it's not removed, is that it violates the independence of the NBS. As I said, all of them did not resent these other institutions, it is Serbia, the National Assembly of Serbia had to protect itself, and insist on the independence of the NBS, because it is extremely important, because it is defined by the Constitution, because it does not require any financial resources, so that it is some reason that we do not have an independent NBS and because it is a job of the National Assembly. That is what we should do and ignore the European Commission's recommendations absolutely. What was further a problem in August, again not being removed by this bill, is the way to choose the vice governor. We can see that it's not removed, and we can see that there's no intention of that happening, and that's extremely bad. In its report in August, the World Bank slowed down its competences, voicing its concern over the ambiguity of the mandate and the role of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Authority as a single body that has an extremely large authority and a powerful body. This law and these new amendments and additions to the Law continue in no way to change this situation and give us a clear picture of the mandate and of the clear competences of this body. On the contrary, we see that the aim of these amendments and the addition of the Law is to further strengthen this body. This morning, we received a joint opinion from the European Commission, the IMF and the European Central Bank, which are critical of almost every member of these proposed amendments and additions. They have concrete proposals to avoid these new discrepancies with European Commission and EU regulations. Namely, they are also concerned by the institutional independence of the NBS, are also concerned by the personal independence of the NBS, are also concerned by the draft work and the way the governor is elected, the duration of the term of office, the way in which the mandate is limited. These are all things that worry the European Commission. In Karaya, although I think no less important, the fact that the governor is a political figure and that she was recently elected vice president of the largest party in Serbia's ruling coalition. These are all the things that the NBS should have taken into account when proposing these new amendments and additions to the law, since it would be logical to assume that those who are the only ones competent to assess the compliance of any act adopted in this assembly with EU rules are not even consulted when adopting this law. Finally, there is an even bigger problem in this law with the aspect of human rights, which is the existence of a member of the 10th law, which deprives the right guaranteed to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia -- the right to a constitutional appeal. For the matter to be even worse, the very reason for the law is the next sentence – although the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the right to legal remedy as one of the fundamental human rights and even states Article 36. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that everyone has the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision to rule on his right, on a commitment or on a legitimately based interest for legal certainty, and given in the light of and parallel legal practice, it is proposed that this issue be settled in a explicit way in order to avoid any possible confusion in practice. When it comes to basic human rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there is no room for the word "although". These are rights that under no circumstances can be suspended. I agree that the intention was different and has a whole series of amendments from different parliamentary groups that have proposed different ways to regulate this issue, or how to better formulate it, or to reform it in such a way as to make it clear what the promoter's intention is, but the suspension by the Constitution of guaranteed human rights for some higher goals, is neither new nor in the political practice of the world nor in ours. I deeply believe that it wasn't the intention or the pronoun, because it was extremely dangerous. When we talked about the Bank Download Act, that law also suspended a whole series of provisions of other laws. Certainly, basic human rights, guaranteed by the Constitution, cannot be subject to suspension. I believe there will be a way to rephrase this legal provision in some way. To conclude, certainly, without the adoption of a whole series of amendments which, I fear, will change the whole meaning of the law and I believe that it will not be adopted by MPs in this assembly, the LSV cannot support the proposal for this law because it is not only removing those objections that have been brought about when the laws were first amended and amended, but it continues to distance Serbia from the current EU rules and thus harming the European integration of the Republic of Serbia. We will not be able to support this law, first of all, and to ignore the recommendations that have come from the EU because it seriously threatens the independence of the NBS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4007	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4008	The remarks you're talking about, and they told you correctly and the truth were told by the members of the Committee from the NB Legislative Authority, as I told you, may have been placed on delivery to us but have not arrived at the NB. I've been informed that they've arrived at the European Integration Office, they've not been forwarded to us. Due to proper public information, here is the European Central Bank's remarks, which you say are numerous, as one of the remarks, in addition to the opinion of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, there are four positions, where the amendment to adopt the statutes in the bank, rather than in the Assembly, and the other three relate to the fact that the new vice governor should be elected to the full term rather than to the degree of office. If someone could explain to me how to respect the request to choose the Vice-Governors so consecratingly and at the same time on a full mandate, I'd like you to write an amendment and apply it. There are only three objections. In the second remark, which concerns Article 73, I already mentioned it in the discussion of the availability of movable and immovable property, they explain it by applying the full principle of financial independence, and I explained why I don't think it should be. The number four is a comment on the related faces, which is not an explicit opposition. Leaves a certain reserve. I said that we accepted from our legal regulations – those who deal with conflict of interest, that very formulation. So, of these numerous remarks, there is one consensus, one that is impossible to respect because those we also care about, which is an arrangement with the IMF as a controller and advisor, and someone who is an assistant to get along and survive this year with a high budget deficit when they're pushing new and new payments for loans that have long deadlines of grace periods, which are just now coming in, one is a requirement like this, and the other is one. If you know how to apply the two opposite sides, and we will apply, but such explicit remarks, there is really no concern. I can understand that as a kind of political struggle when you say not a whole sentence but at a point that suits you put an end to it, and that's how I can accept it. I wouldn't even comment if it weren't for the public of Serbia, which I personally believe is satisfied with what the NB has started to do, and it doesn't need to know that the NB has great co-operation with all institutions. Why has there been a stalemate in this opinion by the European Commission? I don't know. I wouldn't even want to interpret this on purpose. Be free to send the relevant persons these remarks made. What is relevant is the person who has received, and those who may not be that is not important, and for me, you as MPs are the most important and most important thing to me is your position, or the citizens you represent. Anyway, thanks for the discussion. Let me just add something. You mentioned Mr Dinkic and the law that was adopted here under the same procedure. It wasn't done without NB consent. As you have seen in the solutions, our opinion on the control carried out by the Ministry of Finance as the founder, i.e. the owner of the shares, makes a proposal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia which, as owner on behalf of the RS, makes a decision to take over the part of the bank or the entire bank. The National Bank took part in the whole business and prepared it and we were both on Saturday and Sunday all on our feet and as far as I know there are no special problems in the process of taking over the Agrobank by the Post Office. My principle and the principle of my colleagues I'm working with, I won't let anyone else do it, and I won't give mine. I don't interfere in other people's jurisdiction, I don't give up my jurisdiction. Be assured that the fact that the NB is not talking means that the governor's job, so I like to be called because I'm not married to the governor to be governor, and the constitution only knows the governor of the NBS, I gave one interview, because I think it's my job to communicate very carefully with the public and not talk about it very much, but that we do very much in the house by choosing words carefully because of the stability of the financial system, because of the development, because of the arrival of investors and for creating a favourable climate for working in Serbia. We've been in progress, but we're not answering because it's our job and that way of talking to the public so as not to get any unnecessary anxiety. Just in that sense, I want to tell you that we participated in the work on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4009	Replica. The People's Messenger, Alexandra Jerkov, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4010	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, when it comes to the law on bank takeover, our underlying objection was precisely that it did not say anything that the Ministry of Finance was making a proposal based on the control carried out by the NBS, because we were wondering how the Ministry of Finance could come up with that information, and we asked that in law it was written, but it's not the subject of that law, so I won't talk about it. When we talked about these remarks, I mean we're not talking about the same document. I am talking about a document from the European Commission that arrived this morning at the Committee on European Integration, which has seven sides, which also lists objections from last August which are not removed by this bill, so we are talking about two different documents. I would not intend to abuse anything the European Central Bank has sent. I think it's too serious to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4011	MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4012	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Governor, I've waited a little while to look ourselves in the eye. You should have seen and realized for a month that our remarks never had anything to do with any dissatisfaction or assessment of the color of your eyes. The law with which you came before this Parliament today, all that happened in the meantime, showed that we were right, not you, and when it came to the defects of the NBS Act, which were proposed and adopted in early August, and when it came to the arguments that we made here about a month ago when we talked about the election of the Vice Governor, so it was my remark or the question where I asked you very clearly to state whether you would be proposed, whether you would be elected vice president of the SNS in the context of independence and independence, all of what you are talking about today. It was very important to me back then and today. I understand your desire to call you as the Constitution says - governor. No matter what I say, I will try to fulfill this desire against you, but I must say that in addition to being governor for me you are also deputy president of the SNS, and I will observe and observe both your work and what you are here trying to defend this bill to us. At the very beginning, you say there have been objections from those we want to cooperate with. This is also said in the light of the law, to the remarks made by the EU institutions, and above all by the European Central Bank. I'm sorry that this way you're actually reducing the importance of this House. It seems to me, I would not want to go into the reasons that you in the first months, when I say you, I mean a new government, whose political part you are, have shown quite a high degree of fascination with Europe and the EU institutions. In a way, as if it were some sort of compensation for the EU's lack of understanding or a negative attitude towards the EU and European integration over the past years or decades. Some other political parties, which are Eurooptimistic, so to speak, from the very beginning, do not have that kind of fascination. We are trying to find in opinions, decisions, European institutions' views something that is rational, which is useful for our country. All those remarks or vast majority of objections, which you heard from the European institutions, which you have made clear, as you yourself say, and numerous doubts and misunderstandings with the institutions of the global level, above all the IMF, the World Bank, etc., you could hear from opposition MPs, including the LDP, in this Parliament three months ago. So, coming with this law to parliament is an interesting paradigm for the first 100 days of the government. I think none of us, perhaps, must go any further from the opposition MPs, to elaborate on how many problems and how many mistakes have been made in the first 100 days. I think the circle is closed. You have begun your term with the right-wing of the National Bank of Serbia, ending the first 100 days by shyly, in half of the vote, 25 minutes of explanation, which is actually an excuse, and you say you will not justify yourself, adopting changes that you are trying to remove some shortcomings, even though you are doing it in an incomplete and poor way, and you are not removing some of the key shortcomings, nor can you remove it. The key flaw is how you changed the National Bank Act, so you could become governor of the National Bank. You can't remove that problem by changing the law. I fully understand that this will not be asked of you, since it is not realistic, nor European institutions, nor any other institutions. They will try to compromise or introduce Serbia into some elemental order and, as far as possible, reduce the damage, given the unrealistic expectations that your authority has in some other fields and other challenges, which are obviously important to that international community. Also, you're saying we're not the smartest people in the world. I think it's a thing that doesn't have to be mentioned. I think you are looking at the rules of the European Central Bank, the IMF and the EU in the wrong way. You say: We accept a part of them, though they are not binding for us. It is not the meaning of the rules introduced, so to speak, on the European continent and which has recently been introduced when it comes to national, or national banks, when it comes to financial markets etc. The basic purpose of these rules is to enable a more normal, better functioning of the legal, economic, financial system in those countries. For us, it is better to accept these remarks, those rules for our own sake, whether they bind us or not. At one point there was a debate here about who was sending whom opinion. I think there's a clear order of moves, a clear order of documents. In addition to official documents, statements, which the EU institutions, the European Commission, gave in late July and early August. They have been repeated in a rather harsh manner in the October official document, which concerns Serbia's assessment of the EU accession process. It's something we can't talk about. They may be interesting in some way, and your interpretations of different translations, different terms, but we can't go back to 1945, 1946, when a UN system, specialized UN agencies, and the IMF system and the World Bank system are specialized UN agencies, and through what they do one of the main conflicts is two of the largest legal systems - continental and Anglo-Saxon. All the other problems that arise from these terms, which you are discussing today, are actually the result, they are solved in bilateral relations, in the behaviour of those countries that are members of these organisations, decades ago. There is no need for us to discuss this today and see in these ambiguities an excuse for why we cannot do things or why they were wrongly foreseen. I must tell you that I respect cynicism, but not the exaggeration in it. I think it's really cynical when you say that the first version of the law, the July and August changes this year, is proposed by the parliamentary majority or the largest party of the parliamentary majority, and that today this proposal is given by the NBS. It's a little bit of trouble that you were the political leader at the time, the head of the party's parliamentary group who proposed this law, and today you're governor. I believe you've changed in part in the meantime. This is what I consider normal in life, but I do not see the fundamental difference between Jorgovanka Tabakovic, head of the SNS parliamentary group and Jorganka Tabakovic, governor of the NBS. I'm saying that because we're not gonna get anywhere with that kind of explanation that I think is cynical. It hasn't changed much in your function in the party, more or less it's the same function, or the vice president is something of a higher function. Congratulations on that kind of progress. You've come a long way over what was the political explanation of your parliamentary group when you proposed changes in August of this year. You have explicitly claimed that this parliament must have a much stronger degree of influence on control or much stronger control over the work of the National Bank. In this respect, it was discussed the confirmation of the statutes in the National Bank and the way in which officials of the National Bank were elected, etc. You're giving up one piece of that principle today. When you give an explanation why the Statute of the National Bank in the Serbian Parliament will not now be confirmed, you ignore the explanation for such a thing and represent it as a technical change. Here, in your explanation, you told us that there was no need to put more independence fuses, since the officials, who make, adopt that statute at the National Bank, were elected before that by the National Assembly. The argument had to apply and was indicated in August of the month. I don't know why it took the end of October to work on Saturdays, Sundays, as you say, 11 o'clock on this or some other business, to correct that mistake. Secondly, as you know, several times we've talked about this, from the normative, technical content of the solutions you come to parliament with, in the business you're dealing with is a very important impression, very important psychological expectations, it's very important, in the system that you run, in terms of the National Bank, that people trust you. When, in the meantime, you had, to remind you, the delay of a session on the election of the Vice-Governor, so you put this parliament in a position to bring to the end the process of electing members of the National Bank of Serbia's council, today you come to us by having to interrupt the current session in order to adopt the amendments, in order for the members of the council to be elected under the new law, which will take effect as soon as it is announced in "the Official Messenger". I don't think you think it's the best way to respect and introduce legal certainty, preserve continuity. These are the great principles that are important and that you've also operated on in your presentation here. You're also saying that these amendments to the law have tried to provide some sort of continuity. I don't think you've been able to do that, and I especially think that you skipped the part where you actually, I don't say, destroyed every kind of continuity at the moment that you decided to take shifts at the National Bank, to make changes at the National Bank three months ago. I understand why you have a problem with the provision of, as you said, a conjectutive replacement of the vice governor. You were talking about the practice that got up with us. You know how we got into a situation to choose new members of the National Bank's council. Among other things, because some old members or members of the council in the previous term, meanwhile, resigned with a very clear explanation why they are doing so. The right to appeal or the right to a legal remedy, in the case of a resolution decision, was also one of the topics that caused you to suffer very harsh criticism from the opposition. There were amendments, among other things, to the LDP, to correct that error. However, it is not just a matter of the position of one official, one governor or anyone else on the shift of power. This is a general question of respect for the right and respect for the legal order in this country, the right to an effective remedy is guaranteed by the Constitution. Of course, we have a lot of problems with him, so we also have hundreds of cases before the European Court of Human Rights for violating that principle. Did you finally agree to partially correct that mistake? I don't think you've corrected it until the end and that the controversial part of the formulation that says, after the decimal point, I'll quote and the part after the score, you objected to Miss Jerkov and that in that case the right to a constitutional appeal was excluded, I'm not sure that's possible in our legal order, and that will allow the Constitutional Court for the specificity of the constitutional appeal, etc. and because of relations, procedures before our authorities and international authorities, because of the obligation to drain all legal resources in the domestic legal order and not to burden you now with these more or less boring legal issues. It's not an opportunity, you haven't talked about it either, so we're not going to go into some broader issues of general work of the NBS, relations with the Ministry of Finance, your relationship, if you want, according to economic policy, according to the announced budget, it might be in the coming hours or the next days to do something like that. The LDP will not vote for this law for several reasons, some of them I listed. Another is that we have absolutely no guarantee that you in another political situation, when perhaps the EU or the fascination of European institutions or those you wish to cooperate with in the coming months or years, have no guarantee that you will not take any retrograde step again and bring us back. I find it interesting to me, otherwise, that your observation or, as I say, I think it was some kind of justification, understanding of some of the mistakes that were made between 2001 and 2010, when you were talking about the speed to correct the lags and mistakes in the past. If I were you, as a sign or a gesture of understanding for those who made these mistakes, I would also recognize some kind of my own, or in this case your responsibility for those delays that were made, let's say in those years when you were a major political opponent of opening the country, its integration into the EU and other international institutions. I don't think anyone should come and talk here every time. Forgive me for the ugly past or the mistakes of the past, or I don't think anyone has the right to change, but I think it's fair to talk about it too. (Chairman) Please, MP Đurić, please do not mention mistakes, that you do not discuss the person of the governor. I think you've already gone too far, about the taste... How am I talking about a person? (President: It comes down to her personality. Please, don't, I've been putting up with you for a long time, and I think it's time for you to get back on the subject. ) Tell me what your objection is. I don't agree with your assessment. I'm talking about the political personality of the governor of the NBS and the deputy president of the SNS, and that's my parliamentary right. If you think I'm violating some rule of procedure, then I ask you to punish me, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (President: You are obliged to respect the dignity of both the Assembly and the persons and the members and the Members and the MPs and the representatives, all who are involved here in the debate. Please continue the discussion. But I didn't see the connection between your remarks and what I was talking about. I was just talking about how the governor of the NBS in his presentation talked about the mistakes in the past, I only partly focused on that part, but I think it's so familiar to the public, that there's no need to insist on it anymore and to provoke your reactions. Otherwise, I believe that you are very correct in leading this House when you are chairing, and I will, at this point, practically end my discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4013	Replica, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4014	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't like anyone putting words in my mouth that I haven't spoken. I was an authorised representative of the promoter when the latest amendments and additions of the NBS Act were made. Boyan Djuric from the scene: I didn't mention you. I have the right to connect with myself. It is said here that the ruling majority wanted to put the NBS under control. That was never said by the SNS and me as an authorised promoter. Not the ruling majority, not under control, but under the supervision of the National Assembly. And you are a people's messenger, and that right belongs to you, and what I said is true now, on the one hand. On the other hand, if we talk about constitutional order, it would be a humiliation for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for me personally and for all MPs, that the decision taken by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is decided by the court, whether it is a court of general jurisdiction, an administrative court or another court in the system of judicial authority. These provisions, prescribed by the old law, referred to central bank officials, where the executive authority appoints them and it is natural to have legal protection against courts of general or special jurisdiction in the judicial authority system. He has appointed and resolved the National Assembly with us. That's when I said again in these amendments and additions, that they can ask for protection from the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court is the only one who can measure the constitutionality of the Serbian Parliament's decisions. The branch of the judiciary cannot be above the legislative authority. There's no such thing in any legal system. Find such a thing that the decisions made by a parliament may cancel the general court's jurisdiction. It doesn't exist. It is only the Constitutional Court that appreciates the constitutionality of decisions and general acts taken by the National Assembly. Now we have it in the amendments and additions to the law. The court can't do it, we don't run administrative proceedings when we're solving the governor or the NBS official, just as it is. The Assembly makes certain decisions and their constitutionality and legality can only be valued by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4015	Thank you. Bojan Đuric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4016	I don't know if we're going deeper into an analysis of this, this is a pretty interesting view of the system, of the division of the government and of the balance system between the branches of the government, but not to get into it now. You have mixed the assessment of the constitutionality of the laws passed by the National Assembly and the decision-making of situations when the National Assembly decides, when it chooses, about appointments, about appointments. You've completely ignored one important thing. It doesn't matter if it's a humiliation to me or you or it's not a humiliation, it's that you can't deny any possibility of making a decision about him in court, it's absolutely irrelevant to which court he is. I understand your argument, can it only be the Constitutional Court? I have no objection to that. I have criticised this solution as problematic from the aspect of the exclusion of the right to a constitutional appeal, only in this situation. As for the first part of your reaction to what I've been saying, I don't think you can convince anyone that you're not in that exhibit, that it wasn't the basic intensity when you proposed the law, to introduce much sharper, when you say parliamentary control, that means political control, when you introduce that kind of control in such an aggressive way. How do you control it? It is always held in this parliament by some kind of decision-making or voting, and a parliamentary majority makes the decision. It is a form of political control, i.e. political supervision, especially when you install this kind of decision-making or insurance policy in relation to a very wide range of issues concerning NBS, from NBS officials, through the NBS statutes and some other powers.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4017	Thank you. The word has a governor, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4018	Between thinking about whether I should even comment on the fascination, who is the smartest, some of the attributes, the shyness, but I decided to comment only on what the comment deserves, which is focusing on the protection of the changed functioner, which is what most of my colleague Veroljub has already said. I don't know if he was vague or if you haven't been able to understand him, but perhaps I will bring things closer to you when I say - is not the same relationship between a man who signs a contract of work, who has a solution to the appointment or appointment and, consequently, a way to protect his rights in the event of a resolution, or a break-up of a working relationship. That's enough talking about what you wanted to discuss as very professional. You even tried to make a mistake that I, not Veroljub, was someone who was a representative of the parliamentary group at the time. We have to ask you something - how can you blame someone who today is a criterion for distinguishing us by some nuances in terms of political engagement, that you are a member of a political party and that you resent me, as if to you, surely not, but to you perhaps, political commitment cloudes the economic professional consciousness? I think it is such a way of accepting the honor that I have experienced, that in a frozen function, because of accepting this obligation, I experience myself in the absence of being proposed by the main committee, elected and again agreed to freeze my function, knowing that I cannot perform it, is something that is the crown of my twenty-year work in the best interests of all Serbian citizens, without a single mistake or affair, even when I was a minister at a very difficult time. If you have said something ugly, it was – when you advocated sanctions, the closure of the country, or something like that. If you have something to object to the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, that is, to me which currently performs that function, in terms of law, conduct, there is the Finance Committee, and there are legally provided methods and means for it. Such descriptive adjectives, even the fact that the law was passed, or a proposal for the election of a vice governor, and then withdrawn, you said, because of the disagreement over the name, and when you were denied the reality, when I made the same names, defended and voted people, you dare to repeat it today. It says that you, perhaps it means nothing to you, don't deserve me to argue with you, because you're not talking about the law, you're not talking about solutions, you're talking about repeating the truths that have already been proven as such. If you're saying that there were more objections to where the statute is being adopted, just don't tell the truth. The Statute is like a form of acceptance in this home of a way to bear the accounting responsibility of the National Bank, because this is the only home, the only level to which it fits. You know how the National Bank registers, whether it registers in the APR, whether it pays taxes and what special treatment it has over everyone else. Is there anyone in any legal system that doesn't exactly account for anyone? No control, no surveillance, so I started my discussion, and I called it doubt and misunderstandings, and you spread it to 1945 and went into some dipression very unreasonable, but the National Assembly is owned by an independent institution to review accounts that have already been made. You're a member of the Finance Committee. Aren't you being delivered, a new three-month report will be delivered, a financial policy plan, a final account? To whom would the National Bank, if not this assembly? If I say today, not shyly, not in half of the vote, but always equally, very committed, by doing my job, that the third kind of security for this accounting relationship of the NBS to the National Assembly is unnecessary when the statute is passed, because it chooses the National Assembly and the Board of Council, because the National Assembly chooses the mayors and chooses the governors, I accept the argument that the statute should not be the subject of debate in the plenary. You're building yourself a position of winner who said he was right. I understand for those who are not in the subject or who want to believe you, it can be a way of speaking, but my comments are still not. When you talk about arguments relating to the law, I will tell you – no, the National Bank was not on Saturday and Sunday on its feet because of this law, but because of the other problems of the neglected control of the banking system, because of the resolution of the problem and the application of a special law on the takeover of Agrobank by the Post Office, where the state is the owner and participant, and the National Bank is the one who, not illegally, but the legal report on the control of its founder, as the auditor provides a report on the control of one organisation, even if it is the most ordinary company. I'm surprised that you as an economist don't have that look, insight into things, and the basics of why some of the solutions are like this. At any future commentary of your solutions and laws, I'd be happy to engage, but in these, like the greatest part of the previous presentation, I really won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4019	Thank you. (Bojan Djuric, from the place: Replica. I don't think you have the right to a replica. (Bojan Djuric, from the post: You think I do not have the right to reply even though for seven minutes Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic spoke of me? You have no right, she didn't speak of you personally. Boyan Djuric, from the scene: She spoke to me. Mr. Djuric, you have no right to a replica. It's my right to decide whether you're right or wrong. Therefore, you have no right to a replica. (Bojan Djuric, from the post: I believe you have injured the Rules of Procedure and I report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4020	I believe you've injured members 27 and 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by not giving me a replica. Mrs. Tabakovic spoke for seven minutes, addressing me directly. I asked for one minute to just answer, and in doing so, I have a time group of MPs that I didn't end up using and I won't answer again. A few corrections only. I'm not an economist, I'm a lawyer, Mrs. Tabakovic. The second thing, I'm going to count on your assessment that there's something unreasonable I've been talking about is a slip and you're thinking -- incomprehensible, I could accept that. On the other hand, I don't know what can be reasonable or unreasonable when I've been trying to tell you about the IMF system at global level, but it's not an overly important topic to get into it. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you and forgive me once again for misreading that I was mentioned in Mrs Tabakovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4021	I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Governor, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic did not have a replica, she had a reason for your discussion. That's how I realized it, that's why I decided you didn't have the right to reply. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4022	If I made a lapus and said – unreasonablely, instead – incomprehensible, you have my public apology. Lapsus, I'm just about to say something like that. But since you're a lawyer and you're not an economist, I really forgive you for what you said in the discussion on the subject of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4023	The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4024	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Tabakovic, the National Bank Act, which we are discussing today, was adopted in this assembly of the National Assembly and entered into force on 5 August 2012, a little less than three months ago. You were chosen a day later, August 6th. You delivered us a bill on amendments and additions to the National Bank Act. In the accompanying letter to the President of the National Assembly, and later and in an explanation, you explain the reasons why you are proposing amendments to the law. I see here two basic reasons, namely the goal. One reason is the approximation of its provisions of the UN Treaty and of the Treaty on Functioning in the EU, especially the provisions of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks. The second reason is because the adoption of this law is necessary – the adoption of this law as soon as possible, primarily because of the need for the election of members of the National Bank Governors' Council and the Director of the Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions within the deadline provided for. Obviously, these are two basic reasons why we are discussing amendments to the National Bank Act today. I welcome your apology, we don't often hear it in the National Assembly, and we often discuss it in a similar way. We've been sitting here for a long time and we know each other pretty well. I really appreciate your work, and at first I appreciate what you said. I have a suggestion. Serbia at the moment, at a time of one of the biggest economic crises that can only be compared to the "great depression" of the last 30 centuries. In a crisis where many countries of the world whether they belong to some associations or not, they have become completely different from the principles that have been declared by the most prominent economists for years. All the things we were advised not to do, all those countries began to work. I think there is a huge space for economic policy and policy of the Central Bank that can be used in favour of the economy and citizens and that it is precisely used that Serbia is not currently a member of either the EU or the World Trade Organisation. We have some contracts that bind us, but there are also policies until we become members can be used. It is not necessary to respect, at all costs, the principles applicable in organisations where we are not members. If the United States is doing this too much, if similar things are done by Japan and other developed countries, there is no reason not to do such things in Serbia. When adopting such laws and discussions on them, they are often spoken and assessed by institutions or bodies covered by the law. When it comes to the Central Bank, and today we're on the Finance Committee talking about it, when it comes to the Central Bank 90 days or 87 days, 88 days as long as you're governor is relatively short a time to give a comprehensive assessment of your work. The months ahead of us will allow us similar sessions, all those acts you're going to propose, will give us a chance to talk about it. After a little less than three months as far as you governors can tell me a few things. The dinar strengthened against the euro the moment you were elected. There are some explanations that measure governments that subsidise interest to allow the inflow of dinars, the borrowing of a state that allows the budget deficit to be financed, and that's true. But the basic fact that, with less and less interventions on the state market, incomparably less spending on foreign exchange funds, the dinar today is worth less than when you were elected. That's a fact to point out. Inflation is still high and if that's the main objective of the National Bank, but three months is an extremely short time and I say, the results and your relationship to solving this serious problem will not be seen until a few months from now. As far as the banks are concerned, I can tell you that the finance minister has worried us. We had a break-up of this session a few days ago, and the subject of course was, and you were talking about it, joining the Post Office and the New Agrobank. But the finance minister has provided us with serious information regarding the Vojvodina Development Bank. Based on the data we've heard here, and knowing the responsibilities of the National Bank, knowing that for each bank individually, when you evaluate capital adequateness and the degree of risk, I'm not sure that this bank, with a recapitalisation of 150m euros, can solve its problems, the way they're presented here, here in the O.R. Still, that's the thing we'll talk about. You've been an MP for a long time, and when every law is passed, I think there are a few important things. Of course they're not good common law changes. It's not good that there are provisions of laws that are not respected. There are such provisions for which there is no criminal sanction. Third thing, it doesn't take provisions to create any confusion. I think those principles should apply to every law. This proposal changes a total of 15 members of the law, along with a 16-member member who says it is effective, it seems to me on the day of publication in the Official Messenger. I would personally divide those 15 members into three groups, the way it looks to me. One group, and you said it in an explanation, certain clarifications and precisions, certain ambiguities that were and certain errors in the text. It's the thing that interests me the most personally. I don't have any objections here. The second group concerns the adoption of some important acts. A third group of members regulates the way the National Bank officials are elected and resolved. To remind you, the National Bank has up to 11 officials at maximum. The president and four members of the Board of Governors, governor of the National Bank, up to four vice governors of the National Bank. At this point, you have decided and informed the Assembly that there will be three in your term of office for the time being. The last, tenth, in this case, eleventh total is the director of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Authority. Let's get in line. Article 6 provides that the Statute of the NBS no longer confirms the National Assembly. Just so there is no dilemma, a confirmation by the National Assembly, and so it was in the current text of the law, you yourself said you simply thought about it. Confirmation merely means that when the Executive Board adopts it on a proposal, the Council adopts it, it comes to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly opens a debate on the act, it cannot change a single item, there is no amendment after the debate, there is only a single search, after the debate is declared by a vote. I don't think that in any way affects the independence of the NBS. The explanation that all these officials were elected by the Assembly is absolutely correct. But there are a number of agencies in our system, and eventually the government chooses the Assembly. If the principle is adopted that they are chosen by the Assembly, then I should simply look differently at the numerous reports delivered by the Government. That doesn't mean you don't trust each other in any way. Another thing, the governor, however independent an institution chooses a number of MPs. It's the constant consideration of whether there's complete independence or not. Of course it doesn't exist. But the same thing as the government is, it's a similar thing to the vice governors you're proposing right now, and the Parliament is choosing. If you as governor don't trust most of the MPs in this room, then it will be very easy to relieve you, as well as the government. The government doesn't have to be torn down just by formally voting its mistrust. It can fall so that no law can pass in the congregation anymore, as it loses a sufficient number of MPs to pass a certain law. So I don't see how it contributes to the independence and independence of the NBS. We talked a long time when there was this law in August in the debate. It's one thing it says in the acts, but we have been witnesses especially in Serbia that the political impact on the NBS can be extremely pronounced. That the independence of the NBS is not only defended by the formal acts that exist, but also essentially defends itself. I expect you at some point in the future to hear the answer as to how it is possible that such foreign exchange reserves have been spent and that so many dinar fluctuations have been possible compared to the euro. It's an essential question for the future. It is one act, i.e. the procedure for amending this law. The second is Article 73, that is how it decides on the assets of the NBS. Until now, the General Assets Act has been passed by the Executive Board, and the Governor has adopted all individual acts and has had the right to act. The law suggests that general and individual acts are now passed by the governor. If we apply analogy and your reasoning in Article 6 if all the officials were elected by the Assembly, there is no need for the Statute to be verified by the Assembly. The Executive Board makes up a total of five when the director of the Board is, of which you are one member, three vice governors who are proposed on your proposal and director of the Board. The second thing, simply when the property is said people usually think of certain concrete things, but when it comes to the National Bank, the property of the National Bank is something completely different from the property in the way the citizens of Serbia understand it. The assets of the National Bank, under Article 73, are all dinar and foreign short-term and long-term deposits, foreign exchange funds, securities of value, other assets, property rights in the possession of the National Bank, movable and immovable items and financial assets in the giro account. So it's not just that ordinary property that every one of us sees as a citizen. It's a very serious property. It seems to us that the existing solution is better. The third important segment is election issues and resolution issues. A variety of procedures are foreseen in case one of the vice governors expires. The existing legal solution foresees in the current law six months to elect a new vice governor, i.e. his duty ends after six months, and you are predicting a 90-day deadline. That may sound good, but you've been an MP for a long time, and you know how the National Assembly works. These 90 days have been much more peaceful than some 90 days in the work of the National Assembly. It's obvious you can't honor the 90-day deadline. It expires on November 3rd, and it is obvious that when the law was passed, the deadline was not met, and we had a 90 - day "quiet" in the work of the National Assembly. The National Assembly had a serious problem with selecting the Citizens' Protectors, as it entered that part before the election was called and the election campaign and the Assembly could not be ambushed. If there's a 90-day clause left, we risk this norm not being respected at a certain point. After all, she wasn't respected now either. The law provides for a 90-day deadline. The second thing is to provide for Vice-Governmentals, who have been elected, only after their term of office during the election will the next term be so that each year one of the National Bank officials is elected, but the change in the duration of the term of office of the first term of office of the Governor's Council is also foreseen, so the president is elected for five years, and members at four, three, two and one. I can say that I have this kind of experience, because at that time I belonged to the ruling majority, there were such norms in the law, and I'm not sure it was important to contribute to the quality of the Council of Governors' work or to harm their work. The second thing is not clear to me how the National Assembly will implement that decision. The session's been interrupted. It seemed to me that a session with the topic was to be scheduled – the selection of the Board of Governors, or director of the Administration. We'll change the law. The law will take effect on the day of publication and that is most likely Monday. Our next item of the agenda is the National Bank Council Selection. The proposal of members of the Council is the Committee on Finance. The Finance Committee did so on October 2nd under the old law. At the same time, there is a motion for a decision in the congregation procedure. They are proposed: Governor Nebojsa Savic's Council for a period of five years, and for members of the Council of Master Nikola Martinovic for five years, Dr Miladin Kovacevic for a period of five years, Master Ivan Nikolic for a period of five years and Stojan Stamenkovic for a period of five years. It's an act that's in the congregation procedure. No amendments can be made to this decision. I only see two exits. That this act should be withdrawn by the Finance Committee, at one of the next sessions to be compared to the new law, because it is not a technical correction if one is proposed for five years, so it is proposed for a year. It's a pretty serious thing. If such a thing were to be done, we could talk about the danger of the independence of the Council. I say, just 15 members. We've written a number of amendments and we've brought out everything we think might be a problem. My colleagues will talk about the rights of disallowed officials. We think it's important, too. That's what my colleagues were talking about before me. We'll discuss this in the follow-up of this debate. The time before us will show how much the National Bank is essentially independent. I sincerely hope we don't have to change the provisions too often. I sincerely hope that you will adopt some of our amendments that we will try to remove any misunderstandings. As far as we're concerned, count on your full support and you can count on any form of co-operation to create all the conditions for the National Bank to be essentially independent. We also expect to talk about the policies run by the National Bank. Of course, you're completely independent here, but expect us to have certain objections or suggestions. Only when we hear what your relationship will be with our amendments, and there are a dozen of them, will we be determined under this law in the hope that we will not change it for at least the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4025	Thank you. National MP Zoran Kasalovic is not in favour. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4026	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're discussing a very important law again. It's about the Central Bank and the National Bank of Serbia. In a country that has suffered the confiscation of the savings of all its citizens, which has experienced two hyperinflations, any issue concerning central and monetary authorities is of first-class state importance. That is why I would like to first, on behalf of the DS, to express my disdain for the fact that this time too, the law on amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia has come this way. We received this law yesterday at 1300 hours and we see that the preparation is such that the proposer, and the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, was not familiar with the moment of proposing this law with the real objections of those with whom it was clearly agreed on these amendments and additions, which is the European Commission and the European Central Bank. By the way, I'm afraid that the way we're going, we'll go as we did in August of the month. Then we said that the proposed changes and additions are useless, that they actually represent a step back for what gradually turned out to be the progress of the National Bank of Serbia as a modern central monetary institution and we see that today on these changes we are dealing, first of all, with cosmetics, and not essentially. I'd like to explain why DS won't vote for this bill. We believe that this law does not deal with what is actually a real problem today in our country, what does not actually allow both our citizens and our domestic and foreign partners to really believe that this institution is completely independent. First in terms of methodology. It is difficult to accept the argument that today's proponent, who is the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, feels freedom to go against what she suggested when she was head of the SNS parliamentary group. So much less that she preserved her political engagement, I'll discuss it at the end of my presentation. It is said that it is necessary to amend the law here not because it represents any problem, but because it is what the EU wants and because it is the European Central Bank. I believe that we should not change the rules because of what one of us is asking for, but because we think we should make the best possible laws for our country. So much before we got the correspondence we heard, we didn't get it. We got it from the European Commission. It has as many as seven pages and it shows very clearly, as well as a letter from the European Central Bank, that if it was an intensity to compare this law with the requirements of the European Commission, i.e. from the European Central Bank, it failed. It failed first because when we see the justification of the previous law, which clearly states that there are no relevant EU rules, with which compliance needs to be ensured, we see today from the same promoters that these regulations actually exist. Not only do they exist, but the most important texts concerning the EU are apostrophe here, what is actually the EU Constitution, the basic text. If this is to be brought into line, then let me tell you first and remind you of the respected MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will read because I think it is so credible, what the European Commission said when it assessed the previous amendments and amendments to the law. This is on the side of her 54th report on the progress of the Republic of Serbia, it is said, "The amendments and additions to the Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia seriously call into question the independence of the Central Bank and thus represent a major step back in bringing the legal assets of the EU into line". The question arises, if this is one assessment, will this law, which is presented today, allow this assessment, when not already listening to the opposition, but Brussels and Frankfurt, is it possible to bridge this falinka by this law? It's very clear that it's not an accident. For what? Because this law deals with very small provisions. A colleague from the DSS mentioned that one of the more concrete things that was introduced here was what existed in the law that we proposed at the time in 2003 and we introduced that possibility for members of the Council to be so-called. The steppe way they choose and that there is no change in that supervisory authority of the National Bank of Serbia, all of a sudden. Not to be a political cleanup, but, as it exists in many countries, it is gradually in different functions, that one new majority cannot change the composition of the National Bank of Serbia's Council overnight. This is where this comes back. First, there was no need to change that, and I believe it's good to have it back. This cannot replace the fundamental problem, which is that the law that amended the Law on the National Bank of Serbia in August this year significantly reduced the Council's intelligence. It is much more important that this council has serious authority than its members are elected for three, four, five, six years. By the way, the European Central Bank and the European Commission continue to have an objection in a way that would replace those members who would cease their post before the deadline. The second thing is the way the director of the Financial System Supervisory Authority will be elected. As DS, we warned in August of the month that in this way two-states were introduced largely within the central monetary institution. I would like to quote to you what came from the official European Commission letter, which came today. It re-absorbs the question and shows very clearly as we said, that such a solution that is good, where supervision of financial institutions is also kept within the National Bank. It is not good that the governor does not have authority over the director of the administration now or in the future. I will quote from the European Commission's official opinion. They say "Some member states are putting control of the financial system within the National Bank. It is not a problem if that authority is actually under an independent decision-making system within the National Bank of Serbia." He also says that the biggest problem if the director, the administration decides, for example, is something concerning a financial institution and thus endangers the financial independence of the NBS. In other words, some decision on recapitalisation, some decision on guarantees in our financial system, would lead to a serious collapse of the National Bank's capacity to perform its functions. That is what is on the side of 6 of the European Commission's official opinion. The truth is it's hard enough at this point of crisis to have a total view of our financial system. The Republic of Serbia does not have as complex a financial system as some Western countries, primarily the United States, where there are a large number of non-banking financial institutions. For the last 10 years, it's something a few governments have been doing and it's good. The growing part of our financial system was "under the hat of the National Bank of Serbia". It started with banks, it continued with insurance companies, it went on to lease houses and many other institutions, because finance is such that it is likely that those present on the market will try to create arbitration and go under a regulation that is easier for them, if one such possibility opens up for them. That is why it is harmful, now that everything is under the hat of the National Bank of Serbia, to introduce a two-state or to introduce a risk, which can lead to the problem of the National Bank itself. Therefore, this law should not deal with cosmetics, for how many days or after 90 days, the director of that administration will be elected, but we need to abolish the two-state within the National Bank of Serbia. I don't think anyone who's the governor would want to take responsibility for those ingenuities he doesn't have. As far as our constitution is concerned, I would mention that article 10 is not in accordance with the Constitution. No one can, nor can those responsible persons within the National Bank of Serbia, be deprived of what is guaranteed by the Constitution, and that is one judicial protection. It is not necessary to try to introduce a policy where it does not belong or demagogy, to try to show that those who are very responsible must be even more responsible, and the way to prove it is that they do not have the same protection as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's not the right way. Everyone has to be responsible for what he's responsible for. As for the provision under which a complaint against the Constitutional Court is possible, I would point out that the Constitutional Court, like the National Bank of Serbia, is a constitutional category and that one law, apart from the law of origin in the Constitutional Court, cannot extend its powers. If this remains, and I hope that the amendment will be deleted, the Constitutional Court, when the appeal comes, will say it is none of his business and sent to a regular court. Make it right, make it part of our justice system. I would like to say, when we talk about the essence of the matter, that I was talking about the fact that the Council is no longer the advice needed for the proper supervision of the National Bank of Serbia. I said that the way the vice governors are elected is much less important than whether it will be for three, four, five years, than it is more important to form a professional team headed by the National Bank of Serbia. Mrs. Tabakovic, you did submit professionals to the vice governors. That's good, but we can't depend on one person. We can't depend on one circumstance. It is much more important to go back to that provision that allowed the governor to propose to the Vice-Governors of the Council and that the council, which has the elements of independence, decide whether these candidates have the necessary professional qualities. In the end, I'd like to say a few things about what the real point is. Perhaps the vice governors and members of the Council, whose professionalism I welcome, are the essential elements of the system. But nothing can erase the fact that Serbia today is unique to that system in the world, that we have a governor who, after coming to the governor's post, who must be independent, has been elected deputy of a party that is in power. We have a situation where Mrs Tabakovic is the party head of the National Assembly. What kind of genre mix is that? What kind of organization is this? Mrs Tabakovic, you have spoken several times about the fact that you are very proud of the fact that you have made contact with people from the European Central Bank and your colleagues from other countries. That's good. You know that no one among them, like anyone in the world among the central bank governors, is an active politician. That is why, Mrs Tabakovic, it is no wonder that at the end of the European Commission's official opinion, and I am talking about it because you said that this is the key reason why we are together today and we are discussing this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4027	Please, Mr. Djelic, you'll have to listen to me. (Božidar Djelic, from the place: You can't interrupt me, I am an authorised promoter. Let me just say two words. This isn't a debate about the governor, you're talking about the governor's choice now, whether he's a party person or not. Therefore, you need to discuss the law and please move on to the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4028	So much, Mr President, I am talking about changing and supplementing this law by the European Commission, which has so many times been apostrophe as the real source of these changes, on the last page, says they want to express their great concern over the fact that the governor of the NBS has recently been elected vice president of the SNS, and although this political function has been presented as frozen, it can be a potential conflict of interest and endangering the independence of the governor, which is the principle set out in Article 130. The Constitution of the EU and of Article 7. The statutes of all central banks of Europe. That's why, in the end, I think this is what we're discussing today is really cosmetics. It's trying in a small way to show that we've got something in common with the EU, but the fundamental problems with this are not being solved. I mean, when we talk about this law, which we only discuss three months after its change, and by that Serbia is unique, it's in some way a professional disgrace to those who propose this today, I think it would be honorable, Mrs Tabakovic, to choose between this function and political function. I invite you to choose if you really want to comply with what you say you want to be coordinated. If politics is more important, resign as governor. If this is your place as governor of the Central Bank, resign as SNS deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4029	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4030	I'm not going to put you in an awkward situation right now so the Serbian public can see the date on that document you've been reading. You and I both know what date they'd see. It would be too much for you. That's enough of what I'm about to say. You're saying the Council's been reduced. You didn't read the law. You read the old opinion, which has nothing to do with the current changes and additions, but with a story that is largely clarified, since August 2012, and you deceive the public, fully responsible. The Council has increased competences, one of which is one of the basics to adopt a foreign reserve management strategy. The Investment Committee proposes to the Executive Committee. The Executive Board of the Council, and the Council approves. It's one of the new relevant powers of the Council. If you specify a single part of the Council's jurisdiction that has been abolished or reduced, go ahead and say it at the pay phone. You're saying there's a two-alignment. Wasn't it worth it to prepare for this session even if you read the law? Article 13 and Article 18, and once and for all, I can address, since you are helping him, the Executive Board shall be the Governor, Director of the Board of Supervisors and Vice Governors of the NBS. Who is the chairman of the Executive Board, so you know, from 2000 to today? What kind of co-authority is that if the chairman of the Executive Board is governor and he who represents the National Bank signs and makes final decisions on its behalf? What kind of two powers are we talking about? I really don't understand that in three months you haven't been able to understand the position of the opposition MP. You fight with truth, with truth and facts. Article 18 of Article 63(1) is amended, that is, the contested law you speak of, the NBS issues and withdraws work permits and through the Supervisory Authority shall supervise financial institutions and take other measures in accordance with the law. Who's representing the NBS? It's not the director of the board. It's the governor. The Supervisory Authority is conducting surveillance that hasn't been back in a few years, among other things, in a bank where you had advisory services. I think it would be better if we didn't expand the subject, but it's not at least appropriate to expect that I feel the untruths you present, about concrete legal solutions, and while you resent me for consulting with those of whom Serbia depends, you don't critically read an outdated text of opinion, wanting to reduce the importance of what the National Bank is currently doing and all the good that goes on and the people chosen, etc., and so on. Please, and when you're in opposition, you should have a measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4031	Thank you. Mr. Bozidar Djelic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4032	This is already up. There are threats to criticism. We're used to it, and we're ready for it. You have no other way. That's all you know how to do. Go on. Here, you have authority, if any of us have sinned, go ahead. As for what you said, of course it's not true what you said. You should know at least your parent law. Before the August changes, the Council, on a proposal from the governor, chose the governor's jokes. He's not doing it now. That's what the Assembly does. This clearly reduced the role of the Council. The council chose an external auditor before. It doesn't work anymore. There are many other such things that clearly show that the philosophy that existed in the 2003 law and that after we open up here, the idea was, because of the specificity, the sensitivity of the issues that our central monetary authority is dealing with, to make in some sense, a tampon, i.e. one body that will ensure that, of course, it is under the supervision of the National Assembly, but it enables it to function fully and on professional grounds, it is something that has been affected by these changes since August of the month and that has certainly led to the risk of politicisation, and I would just like to say that because I do not know if I am reading well enough, but as far as I can see, this opinion from which I read is from 31 October 2012. I don't know, is it November 1st? I don't know how old that is.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4033	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4034	You're amazing. Article 81a. The applicable law, which was amended on 4 August, quote – NBS has an organisational unit that performs internal audit tasks. The selection of internal audit managers is carried out by the Council, based on a public competition. What did you say - no more jurisdiction? That's terrible. The internal audit shall be carried out on the basis of a plan adopted by the Council, and may be carried out in an emergency manner, on the basis of requests, once again, of the Council, of the Executive Board, of the Governor or of the Director of the Supervisory Authority. Do you want me to tell you what the problem is, or would it be safer if I felt like it, so that we wouldn't face a threat? In this country, everyone will do their job, and this provision to choose in this way and to remain the powers of the Council, but to specify that under emergency circumstances they can propose an internal audit and other bodies, you know perfectly why such a provision has been adopted. It leads to much better control, which has threatened to undermine Serbia's financial system due to lack of control and certain imagined and failed projects, such as Agrobanka. You won't provoke me to say a word too much about it, no matter what you try to ask me – who we've been texting, copying, because I'm too responsible to engage with you on the subject of untruth and provocation. I ask you to really not inform the public wrongly and that the Council no longer elects directly the Vice-Governors on the proposal of the governor, but it is done by the Assembly. You have led this under reduced jurisdiction, kept it concrete, and when I say that they have all the other competences, except that they have been given to manage the foreign reserve management strategy, to recommend that strategy, you are returning to the election of the vice governor, as if the citizens of Serbia slept through the choice, as if they didn't know it was happening. That's no longer a problem, and no organization's objection. This contributes not to maintaining the independence of the NBS, but to improving decision-making in the NBS. Because if the same man is proposing to the vice governors, to those to whom he pays his fees, these vice governors could also not exercise control over the Agrobanks for four years, which is what data and evidence exist. That is why it is inappropriate for you who were part of the government, who could not have known what was going on in such a bank, where we know who was allowing them to sign consent to the appointment of board members, who were legally not allowed to get consent because they had the verdicts that disqualified them to be board members and who knew in time to get out of the board, not to be with that stain, because the law says that it would take at least six months to get out so they could be in another bank. This political project was interrupted by the change of government, but also by the change of leadership in the NBS, the obvious reason for your anxiety is that. I'm saying that what they've seen are not going to the hands of any NBS employee, but to the management, or to the one who had them stop the controls, or who hadn't signed the papers on consent for board members, he still signed. What kind of political addiction are you talking about, like me or someone else before? Let the citizens of Serbia assess that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4035	Thank you. (Božidar Djelic from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. I'm taking an hour off. We'll continue at 3:30. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. National MP Radojko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4037	Member of the 27th and members involved in the work of the Financial Committee. We have just received information that the proposal will be withdrawn on the agenda, as regards the president and members of the NB Council. I welcome the reaction to the DSS initiative because it is logical for the President and members of the Council to be elected in accordance with the law. There's no other exhibition to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4038	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4039	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ms Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the NBS Act does not make a major amendment to the NBS Act, but because of the objectives that will be achieved by the proposed amendments and amendments to the law in order to remove certain misunderstandings, ambiguities, certain technical redundancies, and to ensure the selection of all bodies of the NBS, which would practically bring these provisions into line with the legal provisions of the EU, are the reason why the SPS parliamentary club will in principle support this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on NBS. The proposed amendments to that law were specifically in the course of the debate also the subject of analysis by the proposings and authorised representatives of the parliamentary clubs. I would not like to discuss in more detail all the proposed amendments and additions to the NBS Act. We are prepared to discuss the details in the day, that is, by amendments, all the proposed amendments, as many as 16 have been heard, and in that sense, if there is an amendment that is meaningful and will improve the provisions of this law, we are prepared to support it. I would like to point out in one part only one change that I appreciate and I think it is very important, above all, for all citizens who are closely following this, and that is the amendment concerning Article 4, and Article 1 of this law changes that. NBS functions, i.e. in terms of protection of the rights and interests of the users of the services provided by banks, financial lease providers, insurance companies, voluntary pension fund management companies, are foreseen. I think it is a provision that will significantly improve the protection of rights and interests, the legal security of all citizens in the RS. Last week, we discussed a very important issue when it comes to financial stability in RS, where we all found that trust is the basis for the stability of the financial system, i.e. the banking system in RS. Given that it is one of the most significant institutions in the RS state system, I think it is necessary to welcome the position on accepting well-intentioned advice from the institutions we want to co-operate with and to respond in due time with the aim of providing conditions and ambience for strengthening such an institution, especially in the conditions in which the new governor and the NBS have started to work, and we have witnessed that the financial situation in RS is not expected, it is not satisfactory, and last week we were just discussing it. Unfortunately, we had the need to deal with problems that no one could be happy or satisfied with in this way. In that sense, I welcome this kind of reaction. The short term, I agree with previous speakers, is to assess in more detail and in a clearer way the work of the NBS, the former governor and its associates, but when we mention how to resolve the possible threat of financial stability in the RS and this law, which was adopted under an urgent procedure on the takeover of property and the obligations of certain banks in terms of preserving financial stability in the RS, envisions as one key item and a provision, in order for the whole process to be initiated, a positive opinion by the NBS. In this case we base our trust in institutions such as the NBS, to solve such a key problem, because, according to all information, the acquisition of the assets and liabilities of the "New Agrobank" by the Post Office is done in the best possible way. What we really want, and on this occasion we have appealed, today is that all irregularities that exist should be investigated to the end and all those who have sinned against the law should be brought to justice because this is a message to everyone for future work, but also a message to the citizens that they can trust in the institutions of the RS. The SPS Parliament Club has and wants to share with everyone one responsible political stance and attitude towards the institutions in RS, and we do not want to use any topic and debate in terms of, I say, underestimating some of our institutions, but rather we want to send a message to all our citizens that the functioning and institutions of RS are very important, and so is the NBS through strengthening its independence and independence, and above all, we will all agree that all economic experts, all economic research, are saying that macroeconomic stability is very important to Serbia. The assumption for it is stable and functional institutions, and without such a type of assumption reached, it is not possible to have sustainable growth over a long period of time in a way to solve one of the most important problems today, which is unemployment. I think that in this direction we should all send clear messages to RS citizens that the functioning and work of RS institutions is very important and very important. That's why I don't want to and can't understand in the debate that attitudes are being expressed and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is hiding and is not expressing its views. If we look at this reaction when it comes to financial stability in RS, absolutely one very brave, determined reaction to preventing any risk to the RS financial system. Good results after a few days. If another such case arises, the law makes it possible to react in such a way. If you look at the results of investigations as I have already mentioned in "New Agrobank" and in other segments of the fight against crime and corruption there is no hiding. Indeed, one determined and courageous reaction from the government is. If you look at the goals, the government's intention, led by Prime Minister Dacic, to solve problems in terms of KIM and take responsibility, is a completely determined reaction without any cover-up, and with all this, if we add a clear need for a credible performance and the government's path to the EU, I really think that this government led with Mr Dacic has more than good results in these 100 days. For this reason, I call for a politically responsible relationship and a political consensus when it comes to the functioning and work of our institutions. Finally, I would like to say that the SPS Parliament Club will always support the work of the governors and the functioning of the NBS in the interests of all citizens, which means working within the legal powers of the NBS and in the interests of the citizens, in no way in the interest of any individual stakeholders who might have our reserves as a function of some projects, and in that sense both the governor of the NBS and the work of the NBS will always have the support of the SPS parliamentary club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4040	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic. But he's not here. The word has the People's MP Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the RS Assembly amended the NBS Act in August, which, among other things, formed a new administration within the NBS. The Authority for Supervisory Oversight of Financial Institutions, specified, or more detailedly regulated the choice and resolution, rights and obligations, responsibilities and powers of NBS officials, individual solutions prescribed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the NBS Act have raised doubts and questioned their compliance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, i.e. with the legal assets of the EU, and their removal in the process of negotiations with the EU is of paramount importance. What is the main objective of the National Bank, i.e. what must be the core objective of the National Bank, and as foreseen by the law, is to achieve and maintain price stability, as well as to preserve financial stability. What is particularly significant in this case, since the adoption of the law, i.e. the amendment and addition of the NBS Act and the proposed provisions, will not affect the economic system, and in particular the costs of economy and relations between market operators. As all the solutions that I have cited concern the institutional and personal independence of the Central Bank, and in order to remove any misunderstandings in the interpretation of this law, SNS MPs are calling on all MPs to adopt these amendments as urgently as possible and supplementally. The National Bank Act comprehensively and systematically co-organised the position, objectives, functions, bodies and organisations of the National Bank of Serbia, as well as the attitude of the National Bank of Serbia towards the authorities and organisations of the Republic of Serbia. Except that they are systematically and comprehensively arranged, a positive step has been taken towards bringing international institutions closer and towards the legal practice of central banking. This primarily refers to the education of the Supervisory Authority of financial institutions i.e. through strengthening the control functions of the NBS over financial institutions and in order to strengthen financial stability. Accordingly, one of the goals of passing this law is certainly...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4042	I'm sorry. I'll give you my word. You didn't do anything wrong. I have a duty to extend my hours. I shall inform the MPs that, in accordance with Article 87, the work continues after 1800 hours. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4043	No problem. In line with this, I said, one of the objectives for the adoption of this law is to further bring closer to the provisions of the EU Treaty and of the EU's functioning contracts, especially the provisions of the Statutes of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, and given the strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia to join the EU. Of course, the main objectives of this law are to strengthen the position of the Central Bank of the Republic of Serbia, in particular all aspects of its independence and independence. Then, precision, improvement of its functions, such as the protection of the rights and interests of financial services users, as prescribed by a specific law, etc. As for the insinuation of individual MPs that the adoption of a previous law on amendments and additions to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, that the uncertainty of the market has been caused, is my opinion that this is total nonsense. As a layman, I'm not an economist and I wouldn't get too involved in this, but as an ordinary citizen, and I think to all other citizens, I don't understand, let's start with the first thing, and that's the course of the euro. From 119 dinars to 113 dinars without intervention on the interbank foreign exchange market, and I must remind you that between January 11th, when one euro cost 103 dinars and 9 August when 119 dinars were needed for one euro, the NBS sold 347m euros in interbank foreign exchange market to support the dinar course, and bought only five million euros. The former governor was, who resigned himself, Mr. Dejan Soskic. So I am not an economist by profession, but as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, I do not know what kind of uncertainty some MPs are talking about. All in all, I call you once again, for all that I have stated, which is more urgent to approach the adoption of these amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4044	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4045	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first let me say that I will certainly support this bill. On this occasion, I welcome the willingness of the NBS and the MPs of the majority that, if necessary, for certain corrections in any law, we do so as soon as possible. After all, our role is not only to discuss but also to pass laws that are not only beneficial to the executive government, the National Bank, but also to the citizens of Serbia. Certain laws must be changed at a given time and everything changes mainly. I don't understand the criticism of those who criticized today through this law and the NBS. On this occasion, I will repeat that every authority that comes and goes should be valued for the results it has left behind, and the former regime has had an increase in the euro rate over the last four years from 79 dinars to 119 dinars. When we turn that into a percentage, therefore, during Mirko Cvetkovic's rule, the euro rate jumped by an incredible 50%. In the last month alone, the course fell from 119 to 113 dinars. So somewhere more than 5%. What's suspicious about these course events is that in a few months 2008, the course changed by 20 dinars. So, almost 25-30%. Only in a few months in 2008, when the previous government ruled, that is, when the prime minister was Mirko Cvetkovic, despite the fact that he was considered a prominent financial expert, which he later showed also by taking over the finance ministry, that is, the role of the finance minister he performed before becoming prime minister. He performed the post after Diana Dragutinovic. So again he was both prime minister and finance minister. The country's foreign reserves remained the same, despite the fact that external debt has increased by nearly six billion for the past four years. At this point, Serbia's total debt is over 42 billion euros. The external debt is 30 billion euros, which is around 98% of GDP. For the last four years, debt has been increased by six billion. In order not to justify it as a result of the global economic crisis, I will set an example of Bulgaria, which in the same period, in the last four years, has reduced its debt by 1.5 billion euros and Serbia is in charge of an additional six billion. GDP has been reduced since 2008, and it directly affects course policy and monetary and financial stability. So, GDP has fallen by 9% over the last four years, if I've studied it well. In order not to resort to the global economic crisis again, it has been a custom for them in the last two years, before they fell from power, to accuse all the troubles of the world's economic crisis, and they were not self-critical. To say that in the same period, Bulgaria, which I have already cited as an example, has increased its GDP by 11% and has dropped by 9% in Serbia. So much for the global economic crisis. There was an internal factor called Mirko Cvetkovic's government. There's a big external internal debt left. The money didn't buzz through our economy. So, mostly they spent it to preserve the course and they didn't do it successfully, but I said that the euro course, during their government, cost 50%, or 79 dinars, went to 119, despite the fact that the money they were taking from abroad did not go to resuscitate our production, but rather kept it for the preservation of courses that they had failed to save. The public secret is that while the National Bank of Serbia was neutral, there were certain speculations with the course, so they profited well from foreign banks, foreign trade chains, so they speculated with the course. Those who are a little bit better referred to say that it was mostly speculated in a cafe next to the NBRS, has the appropriate name for the cafe. Therefore, in direct co-operation were certain bankers from certain banks and certain tycoons, owners of large trade chains. So, with that course, it's been very speculative for the last four years. I am therefore surprised by the objections coming from the ranks of the current opposition, or from the ranks of the former regime. They seem to forget that what I listed was happening during their government. It has already been said that they have spent 1.35 billion to defend the course and have not defended it, that this government has not spent that money, and that the euro rate has fallen against the dinars... (President: Mr. Risticevic, please return to your agenda. We no longer discuss the course here, the budget, the debts, the tycoons, the National Bank Act. ) I am trying to prove to you what has been the most recent changes and additions to the National Bank Act, the election of a new governor, thanks to the new law, what has changed positively in relation to what was before, and that these changes and additions that are necessary to bring our legislation in line, I am fully in the subject, I am talking about the NBRS in principle, I am not talking about details. Especially what I'm saying is that there was a lack of control role of the financial service provider during the former government, and that there were even those who were unregistered for this type of service, and they were still providing that service. If you think that I am not in the topic, I will say that I will certainly support this law and I will stress that I expect the NBRS to have all the monetary roles in the future as a macroeconomic role, that the current government and the future one will be the same, that it will pay attention to macroeconomic policy and that we will develop our production and that the future course will not depend on it, as it did on them, on borrowing money from abroad, but that we will earn our money and best in this way strengthen both the role of the NBRS and strengthen the course. So it won't depend on whether we borrow money, but we'll make money with production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4046	Thank you, too. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4047	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, an explanation of why today we are discussing amendments and amendments to the National Bank Act, we have heard these days, and it consists of that it is necessary to comply with EU rules. My esteemed colleague Radojko Obradovic, as an authorised representative of our parliamentary group, made the main remarks the DSS has on this bill and we will discuss these remarks Monday, when the amendments are discussed. I would focus on one topic and one problem that we have seen and we think it is very important to highlight and discuss it today, which is certainly about relations between the institutions in Serbia and the NBRS and the reasons why this law is passed according to what the EU expects the institutions of the Republic of Serbia to do. We do not think that it is necessary for this reason to change the law of the NBRS, nor for the EU to tell us that we are on the basis of our internal right to establish independence and independence of the NBRS. We believe that it is in the sovereign right of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly and that this should be done in accordance with the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Serbia. However, we believe that the solution defined by Article 10 of this proposal is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and against the regulations of the above-mentioned Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, as regards the possibility of protection against courts of disallowed NBRS officials. I would remind you that the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is defined exclusively for the holders of judicial functions, for judges and prosecutors. What we got today as a bill of law is, Mrs. Tabakovic, I must say, a prescribed provision from the article. 148 and 161. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that this solution goes beyond the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that it cannot be determined by one law to function, even if they are functioners of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, a right that is not defined by the Constitution. You said in your discussion that you had dilemmas that solution to find. I think you've found the most unfortunate solution, probably driven by the desire to find a way to define the independence and independence of the NBRS. Today, it has been mentioned several times in the discussion that a document has appeared sent by the head of the EU Office here in Belgrade, Vensan Deser, came to the Committee on European Integration, where it speaks, among other things, of amending Article 28 of the law and the need to define protection against court-broken officials. In the European Commission's report, they criticise you there that you have denied the right to judicial protection, but what is interesting here, and I want to point out very well-intentioned, and I want that practice not to be defined in that way, as it was in the previous period, but it would be important to stop now, in which way we approach what they recommend. In a section relating to the member, it is said that the issue of judicial protection of governors is defined in the contract concerning the EU and the statutes of their banks, but they say - the issue of officials in the National Bank is not defined by those acts, but they advise and recommend that it might be built on. Why are we doing this? Even if you think that you should appeal to the provisions of certain EU rules, I really don't see why the head of the EU Office here would give advice on what else should be done besides, and what they haven't changed, that we do, and we implant it in our regulations. That kind of regulation according to their recommendations, here are the recommendations, not good. The only answer to this question is that we have our legal system, that we have the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that we have laws and that we will define the issue of independence and independence of the NBRS as our regulations govern it. When amendments and additions to the National Bank Act were passed in early August, they objected that the law did not define the judicial protection of the officials of the National Bank, and I want to say here that it was not necessary for two reasons at all. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia allows for constitutional appeal. That's one thing. The second thing, in consultation with several colleagues, lawyers and serious people who deal with this profession, they consider it possible to protect the right of officials who are elected, in the extreme line, here in front of the National Assembly in the administrative dispute. If that is the right of all officials, to initiate an administrative dispute if they are dissatisfied with the National Assembly's decision, if they have the right to a constitutional appeal, that is the thing that is notorous, it should not be written. I don't see why you came in and complicated this whole job, if you could simply give the representatives of the European Commission a clear answer, that the constitutional legal order of the Republic of Serbia is guaranteeing and providing all the officials here, elected in the National Assembly, protection from the Administrative Court in the administrative dispute and the possibility of causing constitutional appeal, and that is a sufficient answer. There is no need for us to make their recommendations, their demands, or at the very end of the line as they say here, to go further than their regulations predict, to discuss this issue beyond the Constitution, and here we are causing unnecessary discussion. I want to point out one more thing. This can create a serious precedent, I warn you, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has chosen a number of very important independent and regulatory bodies, the DRI, the Protector of the Citizens, the Commissioner for Gender Equality, who tomorrow, calling for the need to protect their independence and independence, can seek amendments and additions to the laws governing their territory, to obtain the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court. To move on, if someone were to insist on using this precedent, then tomorrow the Government of the Republic of Serbia could ask for amendments to the Government Act and say – even though the Assembly, by political decision, the highest body, has resolved the minister, I have the right to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court of Appeal. We cannot allow orders, recommendations, suggestions from the European Commission to be adopted in such a way as to violate our legal order. We are a sovereign and independent country, we have our own legal order and we can at this point, if it is important for European integration, do only what is in line with our legal order. Therefore, we have tabled an amendment to Article 10 and are asking for that member to be deleted. We did not ask for his change because we believe that our legal order and those officials who would come under attack may well know what rights they can use. Those rights should not be written because they are written in other legal regulations. Please take this suggestion seriously, to adopt our amendment and to communicate with those who make such recommendations, such strong recommendations, which are absolutely unacceptable, we think it is high time to start talking to the representatives of the European Commission. The Democratic Party of Serbia otherwise believes that Serbia should not enter into this kind of European integration at all, so this is one of the reasons why they want to pressure us into adopting something that we are not obliged to adopt by violating our legal order and constitutional and legal system. We cannot allow that, and in this sense, the DSS, whenever it sees the legal order being violated by the adoption of laws that came at the suggestion recommendation or I don't know what the EU's all about, will react in good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4048	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4049	I thank my colleagues from the DSS for a very constructive approach, and I expect to define together on the Finance Committee tomorrow what is the best solution. The total expropriation of this article, because it is inadmissible to leave the constitutional appeal to be excluded, but I must warn that the rest of the Administrative Court, as responsible for this, is simply inadmissible, because what the Assembly decides on cannot subsequently be decided by the Administrative Court. Be assured that tomorrow together, if we agree that this is a solution, we will delete the full article 10 because, as you said, and I was saying, tomorrow the Minister of Finance can ask for any other representative or official of any agency. I'm glad my suspicions raised in the first discussion are explained legally as you do. I would now take advantage of the opportunity, since you mention this document, to inform the Serbian public that I was not completely sure until I received the document, but I expressed my suspicion that Mr Djelic was presenting false information by saying that he had a document yesterday, and now I received confirmation from the European Integration Office, which informed me that yesterday, off the record, the European Commission had sent the European Integration Office the four comments I had made with Mrs Alexander Jerkov, where four items were placed, one of which confirmed that it had been done well, and three were comments. The latest opinion delivered by the European Commission was October 29th, and it was about the past solution, not this law. I don't think it's correct to discuss it that way in parliament. I thank you very much, and tomorrow we will agree on a committee to rule out this illegality and intrusion into the constitutional system.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4050	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4051	I'll be brief. Mrs. Tabakovic, I point to another possible problem. This law defines the deadline for selecting the functionors of the National Bank. I'd like to point to a case law of the Constitutional Court. Where can the problem arise in practice? The practice of the Constitutional Court is to get rid of them after two or three years, because they don't have deadlines. The judges' complaints have been resolved for two years. For example, the DSS initiative on the Vojvodina Statute has not been resolved for three years. You can get into a situation, if this stays, that the resolved official complains that you have to choose another within 90 days, and then we will have, as it was in 2003, 20-30 officials, as we had 300 MPs at the time. Pay attention to this problem that may arise if the possibility of a complaint is left to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4052	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4053	I think we should deal with the essence, not the details. The letter was dated October 31st and it is true that this letter mentions the opinion delivered last month, which does not mean that what it says is still not relevant. Let me remind you, this memo mentions things that have not been changed by these changes and additions. The question I was talking about in my presentation, and that question is two powers, is still being mentioned here. It's not solved by these changes and additions, in any way. The issue of Ms Tabakovic's election as SNS deputy president, mentioned in this opinion, is still present. The issue mentioned here is about the risks that exist in the event that the Financial Institutions Supervisory Authority makes decisions that can seriously jeopardise NBS capital remains unresolved with these changes and additions. I think it would be better for all of us, because NBS and the stability of our coin are of paramount importance, to focus on what is the essence, and the essence of it is the collapse of the independence of that institution that has brought about a slight change of law in August of this year, which apparently failed to survive a hundred days of this government, but we must now change it. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4054	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4055	The point is that you have tried to use yourself, to present the Commission's opinion, which is completely publicly attached to the European Commission's website, and to claim that this is a comment on the latest text of the law, which is not, that is, the amendments and additions that are under discussion today. That is the essence, in which we fight and what truths we use, that is, in making our views known. The fact that the European Commission has made its reserves, doubts and fears about whether there will be a possibility of a two-state, be calm, sleep peacefully, Article 13 and 18 has no intention of breaking, because these are the powers of the governor to represent the National Bank, including in the affairs of control, supervisory and supervision, and that the statute that will adopt the National Bank Council, when these changes are amended and adopted, will be more precisely defined by the powers between the governor and the director of the administration, which are in no way prejudged, as you wanted to present it to those two-states. I'm going to take my chances now and I'm going to resent some, because I'm going to tell the fastest what's usually going on, but you're going to know who I mean. It happens very often that the thought that comes from the side is actually written from here, but not written by those who know the matter, but written by those who have pierced their pockets on some side, who have broken the law and who feel damaged by the passing of such a law. I have evidence for this claim, but it's not the subject of this debate. I think it would really be appropriate and serious that those who understand finance don't use these methods because they know that banking rests on trust, as well as religion. If in an inappropriate way, using false data, you enter anxiety and create a crisis of mistrust, you contribute to the collapse of the financial system. You have a lot of evidence, I'm acting completely different, and regardless of what business bank it is, which management is about and what events or records are about, I'm trying to be very objective and I'm not talking about what's not spoken about publicly, especially not saying and using data that aren't even relevant, that are out of date. You are consciously speaking – the document arrived yesterday, and that document that you received yesterday, and you know the intervention and which of your colleagues, dates back to October 9th and you made a mistake on the very Finance Committee, wanting to bring down the reputation of the National Bank itself, and this is not a threat, you wanted to say that we were uninformed. By trusting you as a serious man, I try to get a document from my cabinets and I get that it's actually an opinion from October 9th and it's a seduction of the 11th, by which we've taken our views, we've written the answers, and you're reporting it as news. You may love me or you may not love me, you may not like this authority or not, but there is something that is above each of us individually. It's a state, it's a security system. I will repeat again, at the time when Mr Jovanovic accused me of caring for my mandate, when I prayed in 2008 that there would be no unrest over the coming crisis, because it was not good for the financial system, he felt that I was personally motivated to protect the government. Neither then nor today, nor any of us who do this work and whose public word has a serious weight, should put himself first because we are all citizens. I repeat that, and you and I, Mr. Djelic, are also citizens and we are going to be at risk of financial instability that can be an inflationary expectation or the introduction of unrest into what needs to be stable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4056	The word is Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4057	Mrs. Tabakovic, I think given how serious these topics are, there's no reason to pretend to be ignorant, neither you nor I. The fact is that this letter came to not one of my colleagues, but to Mrs Milic Delevic, who is the president of the Committee on European Integration, and it is an official letter from the EU Ambassador to Belgrade, Mr Vensan Deser, who does not address her as a colleague and who should secretly deliver some document to me to know what criticisms are being sent to you, but as it is quite normal, since you answer to the National Assembly, the president of the Committee on European Integration has received very officially and then officially delivered to all members of the Committee on European Integration what remains valid criticism and comments from the European Commission, because it is not a question of date but the fact that what they have indicated, you have not responded. This letter says that the serious problem is that after the election you were elected to the post of governor as deputy party in power. That's the problem. Imagine if we heard that in Hungary, Bulgaria, the governor is someone who is a deputy party in power and then we wonder if that party in power that has to bear responsibility for the situation in the country, would ask the central bank, specifically of the governors, under the allegations, to help. Is the risk greater for this to happen if the person is outside politics or is he greater when that person is in the party's presidency? I will leave it to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to make their own very easy conclusion that is being imposed here. When we talk about the problem of two powers, I have to tell you that this is one serious thing because when you say that nothing has changed, you mentioned some provisions in the law, and I will only quote you, that before the changes in August of the month and that was Article 24 of the NBS Act, the governor was very clearly in charge of defending not only monetary policy, but also the results of the financial system control. This was replaced by a new Article 24, where the governor is still obliged to submit a report to the Council on the implementation of monetary policy at least once every three months, but the Supervisory Authority is obliged to submit a report to the Council on the issue and withdrawal of licences from Article 15 of this Act. It is very clear and it is only one of many examples of international co-operation, and moreover, it is said, via the National Bank of Serbia, that a administration that has much more than autonomy, which should belong to it within the National Bank of Serbia, has been created. Mrs. Tabakovic, this isn't about personal relationships who likes them. We have serious objections from both the European Commission and the European Central Bank, which we have been told are the main drivers of these changes. We have a problem with your political engagement, and as you well know, no governor in the world is at the same time a high-ranking official of any political party. There's no reason for it to be here in Serbia. I appreciate your professional responsibility and I urge you to finally decide between politics and the place in the Central Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4058	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4059	Mr. Djelic, you know my condition as an MP. Go ahead, keep going, and I'll deny your views the way you deserve. When you're caught telling the truth, then you say, "It's not the form that matters, it's the essence." What's the point? That the outdated document of October 9th at the request of Ms. Milica Delevic, the secretary of the Committee you mention, was delivered to you on the 31st, and you speak as if nothing had happened, as if nothing had changed and you claim the following. Let's imagine that someone with a frozen political function is my favorite medal for my political action, that they chose me even though they know I can't perform my function in the party because I'm governor, I'm proud to be elected vice president of the party, even though they know it's left for Mr. Vukic to do the hardest work. You know what's unthinkable when you fall into the fire listening to what I'm saying? What you and many around you say – imagine that someone is responding to a political order. I tell you, no, Serbian citizens, I have no reason to imagine, I find evidence at the National Bank of Political Action and the use of the funds of someone who formally represented himself as independent, and in fact worked on political orders, making banks with state capital something called private property. Evidence of political independence I own and citizens received it through the acquisition of the Agrobank "Postan's Savings", through the necessity to pass the law and preserve savings, deposits, secured and unsecured, small and medium-sized enterprises. It's evidence of damage and cost per country. You dare to warn, to offer something and to say, and suppose that, I say to you that what you're talking about here is really a lack of arguments for what is an improved supervisory and control over the financial system that will be done. Duplicity is also an unfounded fear, I say. I guess you read that much. You can make so much effort. The Executive Board shall decide and the chairman of the Executive Board shall be the Governor. There is no statute to be passed in the National Bank to be opposed to the law we're talking about here. You're telling me we're passing some law because we've been consulting someone, and you're not going to read the law or its changes all the time, you're reading opinions. I have the energy to explore everything that needs to be explored, not to prosecute myself here with you, but to create an institution that will truly be independent and that will allow the money of Serbian citizens not to be used to cover the holes that remain for those who are allegedly non-political. If that supervision had worked properly, if she had been delivering reports that are now bothering you that will be delivered every three months, would we have this situation that we have today in the banking system? Can you answer that? It's facts, not conjecture.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4060	Thank you. (Božidar Djelic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4061	I'm reporting for a member of the 104th violation of the Parliament's dignity. It has been said that the exchange of views here is persecution. I apologize, Mrs. Tabakovic, you've been an MP for a long time, and I don't think you can say that when MPs make arguments, it's there to be persecuted by someone. We're here to discuss a very important matter. The very important thing is how central monetary power is formed. The fact is, we're going to end this year with the highest inflation in Europe of 12 and maybe something more. By law, it was still a central goal. In the weeks to come, we'll see what happens to the course. As a citizen of this country, independence from what our political views are, I wish there was stability. We'll talk about it when the budget comes on the agenda for next year, which I believe doesn't give a good enough base to run one of the disbursed monetary policies. You can't say that when we talk about serious things, a structure, that we don't have just us from DS or the European Central Bank and the European Commission are very serious objections...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4062	Mr. Djelic, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure now. You advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you went to the replica. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Milica Delevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4063	I thank you, Chairman. Mrs Tabakovic mentioned the comments that came to me as chairman of the Committee on European Integration. It's true I asked for comments. I've been looking for them for previous changes and additions, as well as now suggested. I asked for them because the promoter of previous changes and additions was exactly 126 MPs from parliament. All the comments that have arrived have been shared with the Committee's MPs. They did not end up in the media, but were divided into members of the Committee on European Integration. It says in the comments which law they refer to. This is not the first time the Committee has shared its comments with its members. The previous comments were on the draft law on public procurement and are very commendable. I don't see any complaints being split. I simply feel it is my duty, as chairman of the Committee, to request comments, to share them with the members of the Committee. They are indeed the first to be divided today at the Committee's session. I'm sorry that we didn't have more time to talk about it and that we broke up without a conclusion because of the lack of quorum, but they were meant for the audience they went to and it's clearly pointed out which law they were referring to.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4064	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4065	There's nothing controversial about it, Mrs. Delevic. It was the same practice. I didn't keep my anonymous letters when I was president of the Finance Committee, I shared it with the members of the Committee. You weren't there to hear what was contentious. The dispute is that Djelic tried to use them as fresh, new and comments on the existing law. It's not true, if there were no changes, we wouldn't be talking about them today. But what's the issue? I'm not going to let myself talk this way about the reasons for the level of inflation. I think the Finance Committee is going to schedule a session and a special debate that deserves those reasons. It's very interesting that you've found that you're commenting on the level of inflation, and you know that it's due to the rise in the price of agricultural products due to the unremembered drought, you know that it's an increased consumption of state or fiscal expansion, resulting from the election and pre-election spending. To say nothing more, only one billion bonds, or charters that were purchased up front and were to be spent by half next year, and these, current ones, bought in the eleventh month last year, and spent in the first three months for the election, is the problem. This fiscal expansion has pushed inflation. Yes, in one part and the prices of agricultural products, but to a significant extent, and that you did not allow price regulation to increase with the usual dynamics, because you wanted to be nice before the elections. The data on this is completely public. They're in monthly inflation reports on the National Bank website. You can't overdo the effects of the last government burdening neither this National Bank nor this government. Please, you're a serious man and you know with what delayed effect a reference interest rate can work with. You know the range of mandatory reserves, but you know perfectly well what spending means during the election year. So I think we'd better go back to the subject and just use the arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4066	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4067	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have been closely following the discussion from the very beginning. Since I am not an economist, I thank the individual MPs and Mrs Tabakovic, because they have made it clear to me that obviously no one in this room has anything against this law from the point of view of the core function of the National Bank of Serbia, from the point of view of maintaining macroeconomic stability. I especially thank Mrs Tabakovic and the SNS, the SPS and the DSS, because they have made it very clear to Serbian citizens and to me as a lawyer that this law from that economic point of view is extremely good. However, as a lawyer, I would like to clarify some of the things that have been discussed today. First of all, to clarify the fact that a few months ago here, when the first amendments and additions of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia were adopted, we listened to the latents, the minors, and the claims that the politics of the National Bank of Serbia and these governments were such as to reduce the jurisdiction of the National Bank of Serbia and limit its independence. By proposing this law, the National Bank of Serbia and Mrs Tabakovic have just shown the opposite. I'd like to give a few examples here. I would like to return to the discussion on the amendments and additions of the current Article 6. The law on the National Bank of Serbia, where it is now explicitly foreseen that in the Statute of the National Bank of Serbia no longer the Assembly will give consent, i.e., in translation, it is precisely an increase in the independence of the National Bank of Serbia through one fact that the National Bank is adopting its statute. This proves that we are a serious institution, because the Board of Governors and the Executive Board, which we have chosen, participates in the adoption of statutes. I'll remind you that the amendments and additions to Article 20 have been made. The law on the National Bank of Serbia provides for the harmonisation of this law with rules of anti-corruption nature. In particular, it is the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Article 20 defines a conflict of interest, a circle of persons who cannot be in office if they have a conflict of interest. It is fully in line with the Serbian Progressive Party programme, which implies zero tolerance for corruption, so it is also good that the National Bank Act is in line with laws that define the fight against corruption. With amendments and additions to Articles 21 and 26, we also see qualitative changes, which precisely define certain procedures in the event that one of the vice governors ceases function before that time, or before the term of office expires. It's good to propose such a law. It is good to have a law that defines the situation, which clearly defines what is being done in certain situations that can arise in life. I think that today, just when we talk about the independence of the National Bank of Serbia, we completely forgot to discuss Article 13. The bill, which introduces something quite rare to see in Serbia, and we can thank Mrs Tabakovic and her team right now, which is that jokes by governors are chosen on a sliding scale. Vice governors are elected by this current government, but the possibility is left, since everyone is elected for a year, that in the future and some future governments, because after four years there must be elections, come into a situation to choose their vice governors. Finally, I want to commend, because so far, there has been a lot of discussion on this subject, this allegedly controversial article 10. Proposal for a law from the position of the Constitution and from the point of view of judicial protection, vice governor and other officials of the NBS, who may be left without that function. Is this solution really debatable? On the one hand, we must come from the constitutional principle, which is that everyone has the right to judicial protection, we must remember Article 6(1). The European Convention on Human Rights, which says everyone must have the right to effective protection. The proposals we've heard, let's say, that the Administrative Court would be in charge, it's a little strange that officials elected by the National Assembly and we already know from the caselaw that there's been a case for the Administrative Court to drop such charges. So, from law practice and some DSS colleagues, we know that it doesn't work in practice. On the other hand, the constitutional appeal has no suspension. It cannot prevent the entry into force, i.e. the application of a decision already made by law enforcement. In one word, it can't be that easy to get into a situation where a legal interregnum would arise in case someone stops their function and someone new doesn't choose. I'm not saying this is the solution proposed in Article 10 of the most ideal, and we discussed it on the Justice Committee, but it's definitely original, bravely proposed by the governor of the NBS. There will certainly be opportunities to discuss it on the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. For the reason everyone has to be guaranteed legal protection. As for the EU ambassador's comments on the proposed text of the law, I read carefully, and I do not remember that any ambassador's comment is a source of rights in Serbia. I personally had the honour to participate in writing a whole series of scientific projects through the Institute for Comparative Law in the first place, but also through the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, which concerns harmonising our rights with EU rights. We have often said that every professional, well-intentioned comment should be paid to every expert and EU representative. This does not mean that the comments, even the EU ambassador or commissioners, are a source of rights in Serbia. In that context, I'm not sure that we have an argument that some law is right or wrong, is that some ambassador has agreed with the law or not, or that some scientific worker has agreed to a test of the law or not. I am fully convinced, as a lawyer, and I see that economists also agreed, that the proposed law is extremely good, that it increases the independence of the NBS and that Mrs Tabakovic, as one of the most responsible officials in Serbia, will carefully examine all amendments, and in particular the DSS amendments, which concern Article 10 of the Law. This will be discussed by us on the Committee on Justice and that when we finally resolve this topic, when we resolve a dilemma that is more professional, more legal that afterwards we will adopt the law with a large number of votes in favour and that we will have an excellent law that will guarantee the independence of the NBS to the maximum.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4068	The word is by MP Srdjan Mikovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4069	As regards article 27, since you are required to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. Taking into account the sound discussion of all the participants in the debate, the fact that the committees in charge of compliance with the Constitution and compliance with other legal regulations, i.e. the legal system, have been declared. It is not the Committee for Justice who is responsible, it is the Committee for Constitutional Affairs and Law. The previous speaker mistakenly said that the Justice Committee would explain a certain misunderstanding regarding Article 10. It's a bill of law. I was the one who pointed out the discrepancy of Article 10 on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. A bill with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4070	Mr. Mikovic, I will not allow you to lead the line. You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4071	Yes, I've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think that you should point out, because we should respect the dignity of the Assembly and say what it is, in terms of Article 107. This member defines that we must respect the dignity of the Assembly and that we are telling the truth here, even if the slip happens, you are as the chairman in charge of pointing to it. I suggest that at this moment we have before us a bill which, in my opinion, does not comply with the Constitution and with the direct provision of Article 170. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4072	I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. First of all, our Rules of Procedure foresees a breach of the Rules of Procedure in Rule 103. Article 27 says something else entirely. The fact that you interpreted Mr. Cvian's insinuation, in another direction of applying the Constitution, etc., that's another question. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4073	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Tabakovic, what we have established in August of the month, today, however we have tried to present those who have then claimed that the law they are adopting is in line with European standards, or there is no need to comply with European standards, that it is in the best practice of developed democratic countries. Today is proof that we were right when we claimed that the law that was passed in August of the month violates the independence of a state institution, that is, the Central Bank. Today, apart from serious arguments about what new solutions are making, among other things, we heard that compared to previous legislators, the new legislator denied the previous one. Because earlier in the law, adopted in August of the month, he argued that there are no relevant EU rules to ensure compliance with the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law. The law we have before us today, in its explanation as one of the key reasons why we are discussing the law again today after three months, says the law is passed because it is necessary to comply with European standards and with European institutions. It lists all possible institutions that are relevant and that, regardless of what the proposings say we know that recommendations and opinions are written from here, it still considers that these recommendations and opinions, whether written from here or from there, should be taken into account. We said that the violation of the independence of the Central Bank institution is a dangerous precedent and that such a dangerous precedent, if it is done at least once, could seriously endanger the entire constitutional order in the country. If the Constitution has defined the independence of the Central Bank clearly, then it is legal violence when the provisions of the Constitution are disqualified by law and when we make the Central Bank's independence as vulnerable as it is now. We've got here an explanation that this law has been sent by emergency procedure. So, he was posted yesterday and he arrived to us yesterday. We have interrupted the session and are already discussing it today, with an explanation that it is necessary to pass this law in order for the NBS Council to be elected in accordance with European standards. So it doesn't have to be very wise, or referred to in fact, and then ask the question – what about the election of the governor of the NBS? If that law was not in line with European standards, and according to it is elected governor of the NBS, is that governor someone who has been elected legitimately and if there is a question and a question of whether there is a governor's legitimacy, then of course the next question is credibility. It's not about any individual anymore, whoever he is. It's an institution. Infringement of the credibility of the institution is a danger that we can all later pay. The controversy over whether the European Commission's opinion came this long or many days ago is a complete distraction from something that is essentially the most important. If the opinion of the European Commission has arrived, and the bill that we have today is not respected, we are telling you again, in time we will get this law back in the assembly procedure, because the IMF pressure you say you can respect, but you don't, and I say you must, and the pressure of the European Commission, which you also say -- we could leave this law, but here we were so sensitive, so we respected their opinion. If you want to be an EU partner and achieve a state goal, which is to join the EU, then you will have to respect the European Commission's opinion, because this is not a simple statement, that someone here wrote those remarks, and they came from the European Commission, that a partner relationship that you want to build disqualify in a way that you will say – none of these rights is an obligation for us. True, the source of rights in Serbia is not the international acts we did not sign, and we did not commit to it as a source of domestic law. I think that someone who really presents himself as an expert and who is president of an extremely important committee would have to know that the relationship with the EU is a contractual relationship in which we both commit to doing something together in this respect, we are deeply convinced that European integration is the interest of citizens of Serbia, Europe, believing that if it changes according to European standards, it is a place in the EU. What's really scary, and I think it's something that, however we end this debate, we know how this vote is going to end, it will remain written that the shift at the top of the NBS as an independent institution has taken place under the force of the law that was passed so that one set of management in the NBS is replaced by one another, more politically similar and more politically desirable. Try to explain how some frozen function is less than a function, I really don't know who can still believe it. I don't know who you can explain to you that the fact that someone allegedly froze some top party function is no longer a party man. Indeed, I believe that a small child cannot be convinced that it is true and that it is possible. In addition, the amendments to the law that took place in August of the month itself have been done so. The previous law said he could not be a member of a political organisation, because we knew the importance of political independence, or total political neutrality of the governor of the NBS. So he can't be a member of a political organisation. You have changed it so and now it has remained the same, and it will again come from the European Commission as an observation and you will have to change it again in this Parliament. I guarantee you that, as I said in August of this month, we'll have this session today and we'll discuss exactly what you said there was no reason to discuss it. I expect Mr. Mladjan Dinkic will resign, as he assured us here that there is no reason to amend the NBS Act and that the NBS Act is in line with European standards. So you've changed that provision of the law so it now states that it can't perform a political function, so you thought it's enough that if it doesn't perform a political function because it's frozen a high party function, then it's an institution's independence. I fear that, as when the past law was here on the agenda, there is no understanding of what an institution's independence is or there is an unscrupulous political willingness to do political and party will, regardless of the price we pay. I think the price is huge, because the country's ratings are falling drastically. You can say it's an inheritance, but you can't say for long that the further fall can be an inheritance. So, it could have been saved because the previous government had not worked, but it cannot permanently fall, because it is now responsible for this government and this governor who has been elected by political violence, changing the law for one-time use, because that provision of the law was only applicable to the current governor and no one else. In order for one set to be removed, a highly political and party furniture has been passed a law that is now changing, but the consequences remain, and I don't think we will be able to remove them, because this kind of precedentd country that claims it wants to comply with European standards or does not understand what it means or thinks it can become a member of the EU for petty or large fraud, to convince that conditions do not write those in Europe, but rather write some here. When they come with the requirements, on the other hand, it means that we in the contractual obligation agree to the conditions that we want to apply in our country, in order to become part of the European community.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4074	Alexander Radojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4075	I can't really not express my admiration for this kind of eloquence, for this kind of speech that predicts...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4076	Please, which member was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4077	In accordance with Article 107. Such an eloquent exhibition, which provides for any possible situation that will come to us from the European community that you have so zealously respected through all the laws that you have passed under the principles of the European community, how do you not remember earlier that these same laws you have passed? How is it that we come to a situation of great law and great regulation that a few days ago we have Agrobank or Vojvodina Development Bank, which loses money overnight, lose 150m euros, capitalize? Yesterday, when we had a debate about the railways and the Subotics, how could the Vojvodine Development Bank not give perhaps a more favourable loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development? How come you only now remember to respect the laws and all European standards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4078	Veroljub Arsic, replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4079	Replica. Since the previous law was mentioned, when I was an authorised proposer, the legislator, first of all, to clear up, the SNS and this ruling majority do not lie and cheat on anyone. Don't let me remind you of the promise you made to the citizens. For four years, you've had time to fulfill and failed to fulfill one. Who cheated on who? I also think about the citizens of Serbia and the EU. When you mention the independence of the NBS, it is not guaranteed by the Constitution but substituted by this assembly by law. National Bank under Article 95. The Constitution has independence. It is not the same as independence and independence, otherwise the law would not write independence and independence. I don't know when we broke a member of the Constitution's election. In Article 99. The Constitution of the second indent of point 4. - The National Assembly elects and relieves the governor of the NBS and oversees his work. For other NBS functionaries, point 6. – The National Assembly chooses and resolves other officials set by law. What part of the Constitution has been broken? We can also discuss whether this should have been settled in this way as it was resolved by amendments to the law or by someone who was ready, and believe me, we were prepared to do so, to initiate the procedure for the governor's solution under the old law, and then he would have to answer to the governor in front of everyone, and most of all you who voted for him. Why are we having an affair, Agrobank? Why drag him through the paper? Why didn't anything happen to the vice governor who was in charge of the bank's business control, verify and confirm the auditor's reports that Agrobank was all right? (President: Time.) ) About that vice governor and what condition we had in the NBS, just to tell you that the hair from the head wasn't missing from the governor, and he accepted a falsified report that he knew was forged as credible... (Chairman: Please watch your time.) Then you want the Council to choose the Vice-Governers and not have any responsibility to the National Assembly for what they do, if that's independence, I don't know how the NBS is controlled by the National Assembly, and that's what the Constitution says. So it's not about independence and decision-making, it's about responsibility to the National Assembly. That's the meaning of the past law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4080	The word is Dr. Joroganka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4081	I'll just say one sentence that I consider necessary for Mrs. Hope Kolundji's overall discussion - the decline in ratings. How do you explain that this government is in charge at a lower rate and has had four times as much interest in selling securities over value, with a decline in ratings? You know that the decline in ratings is only significant because it increases the cost of borrowing the country. That's what someone had to tell you, and it's not going to work out with each other, at least not the way you wanted to explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4082	The word is Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4083	It's obviously hard to understand with those who don't really understand what respect for institutions and respect for laws and procedures means. The constitution says exactly when the term of office ends for the governor of the NBS - it can stop the resolution. If you pass a law that actually suspends him from that function, then it's a violation of the Constitution. You can talk here until the day after tomorrow if it isn't, but it is a violation of the Constitution. The constitution imagined that the governor would change under conditions of change. The solution is correct, why you didn't resolve it. We claimed we should bring them here and see why they were responsible, what they were doing in the first place. What kind of approach is right where you say it is? We let them go because we didn't want to. You talk about crimes, and then you make a deal that those crimes don't go after each other. If the law and if the Constitution prescribe something, then it's an obligation to respect it. If someone was breaking the law, if not working by law, then this assembly should discuss it and resolve it in accordance with the law, not bring "lex specialis" in order to remove a furniture from the top of an independent institution and set up its exclusive party structure. As for the ratings and the loans you get, if you get them on shorter terms, then of course you get them at less interest, but it doesn't mean it's cheaper.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4084	The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4085	Who knows little about loans, knows that interest rates are lower if the loan is for a long time. We can discuss it. I don't want to talk about it. I'd just like someone to tell me where the Constitution says what period the governor of the NBS is elected on? Where does that say in the Constitution? (President: I ask the People's Messengers not to earn. I can't find it anywhere in the Constitution, on one side. On the other hand, don't tell us anymore that some others, that they've gone and others have come, because most, absolutely, most NBS officials who have been proposed to this assembly, come from the NBS. Don't say that. We didn't get them in there. Some of them came before you were in power, some of them while you were in power, to preserve continuity, and to keep the most capable people with experience in handling the NBS and to help the governor. I understand your political desire, but at least what you're saying, make sure you're more accurate, not abuse of parliamentary right and send the wrong messages to the citizens. That's not at all a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4086	We're done with the replicas. Please, the replicas are based on the election criteria of the governor of the NBS, and that is not the subject of today's debate. Please, let's get this over with. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4087	Dear Sir General, the chairman, distinguished Mrs Tabakovic, although the NBS Act has comprehensively pursued objectives, functions, bodies and organisations of the NBS, as well as NBS relations to the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, however, one relationship has been made, to say, towards the approximation of international institutions and good practice of central European banking. Since certain solutions are prescribed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the NBS Act of 2012. the year, caused by certain different interpretations and certain reasons, which are doubtful, which have been brought into line with the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, and these solutions relate to the institutional and personal independence of the Central Bank, it is very important that today we remove these discussions in this assembly, which was also necessary to adopt these amendments and amendments to the laws, which I call on all MPs both in positions and in opposition. There were also comments here that this assembly should seek the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on this amendment and the addition of the law. I think I share the opinion of most MPs that this is not necessary, because Mr Dacic and the Government know very well that the NBS is exclusively responding to this assembly and there is no need to give the government's opinion. It was an observation that Mrs Tabakovic, as governor, was the deputy president of the SNS. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you who object, at the same session at which she was elected, has frozen that function and to inform you, if you may not know, never attend our party sessions. There were few speeches and objections about independence, especially in the first part of the discussion, NBS. With this law and amendments to the law, we remove these obstacles when it comes to independence and independence. I have two things to ask you. First of all, do you think that according to the previous law, the previous governor of the NBS in the banking sector, is he perhaps on the occasion and was he obliged by the NBS, did they control certain banks that were granted politically motivated loans – an example of "Agorbank", "Developna Banka", etc.? So I'm asking that question. Furthermore, do you think it was a more independent bank during the former governor when he did not protect Serbian citizens from the will of the commercial bank. A good part of the citizens, a very long time you know won't be able to service their debts. The previous governor of the NB did not protect Serbian citizens from the self-will of banks but only banks. Finally, I am also taking the opportunity to thank Mrs Tabakovic on behalf of most Serbian citizens and MPs as an honorable person, a professional, stable and above all fair that you have contributed more effectively to the work and functioning of the NBS, which was felt by Serbian citizens especially when it comes to the course of the dinar. The citizens of Serbia have recognized it very well and give you heartfelt support in this regard. In that name, I call upon the Members of Parliament, both in position and in opposition, to vote in favour of amending and supplementing this law in the day of voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4088	People's emissary of Hope Kulungji.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4089	Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting from Article 103. Rules of Procedure 3. - It is the chairman's obligation to give the People's MP who advertises the Rules of Procedure a word. I answered before the previous speaker spoke, before you gave him your word, after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, again wanting to warn you that you are violating the Rules of Procedure by allowing the Members of the People to address each other personally, which is inadmissible according to the Rules of Procedure. When a MP asks for a word, you have to give it to him before any other speaker, and that's what I wanted to point out now, because we can talk about the content of the law here, which is what we're half-liming about. What matters in this region is not that we speak to each other personally. We don't have a personal relationship here. We are warning here that the way the NBS Act is changed in the most serious way is endangering its independence, that this has terrible consequences. We don't claim they'll happen. We hope he doesn't. We are the same citizens of this country and we do not want to live in a country where inflation will be a three-digit, four-digit, or what we already had, we remember that well. It's just that, but it's obviously hard to understand with those who find it difficult to understand what the independence of institutions is. We built them by making it impossible for the laws to have any political involvement in the decision of these independent institutions. By amending this law not only removes the power of political influence on these institutions. Directly, parties are introduced into these institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4090	I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. First, I warned some MPs not to win. I think you've noticed that. Secondly, you may have been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I really didn't notice. You haven't expressed your wish enough. If that was the case, I apologize, it was an accident. There is a word from MP Judita Popovic. He's not here. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4091	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Tabakovic, at the beginning of your presentation, you said you were very happy to return to this house. The DSS MPs are pleased to speak with you to first of all pass a good law that will allow you to lead an important institution... (The President) I ask the messengers of the people to allow the messenger to be heard, that he may speak plainly. You can't hear anything because of your jealousy. I beg you for one silence and decent behavior. Sir General, allow me to speak. How important this is an institution and this important law shows the fact that the first law discussed by this assembly of parliament is the NBS Act. Apparently, after three months, there was a need for individual provisions to be changed. I'm living in the hope that by New Year's Eve we won't be discussing this law again, and that's why we're trying to fix the proposed provisions. Since you initially explained to us what "acontibites, risposbilites" means, my view is that "fat hev" of this calls on the NBS parliament, so we will always be happy to discuss it. What I am interested in, when I read the bill, it was not clear to me how close we are to the EU today if we adopt this law as proposed, what is the benefit for the state of Serbia if we adopt the law in such a text. The approved legislator of the law we passed three months ago said - there could be harmful consequences if certain laws were not passed and therefore we discussed the urgent procedure. In the meantime, have there been any adverse consequences, so now we're making significant changes to the original text that we recently adopted here? Someone made a remark that we didn't get the government's opinion. And the first time we passed this law, we didn't get the government's opinion. Today I was a little confused when we got the opinions of certain international institutions, and these were the European Central Bank, the European Commission, and that this document from the DSS with these 12 gears doesn't matter to us at all. We don't care what they suggested. We're talking about the NBS. When we look at this, it's seen by the members that you suggested it and they made certain comments. Mr Palalic said that they suggested that there was a possibility to introduce, this in our opinion meaningless, provision regarding the Constitutional Court. I don't know why you accepted, but I hope we can change that in the next few days. I am sure that any ambassador's suggestions cannot be a choice of rights in the state of Serbia. Thank Mr. Deger for his efforts, but let's pass a law that will arrange this very important area. We were talking about the NBS Statute. We have made remarks that this is how one important authority is taken away from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He also said three months ago, we are the ones who need to supervise the NBS. Key newspapers are restoring supervisory functions to the National Assembly. Article 2, quote a stenogram from three months ago when we discussed this law, provides for the National Assembly to confirm the Statute of the NBS. With an earlier proposal to amend and supplement the NB Law, it brought the Statute itself. No one checked the compliance of the NB Statute with the NBS Act. It is our natural right to give consent to its Statute of administration, let alone not or should we give consent to the Statute of the NB and verify that it is in conformity with the legislation and constitutional order of the state. What changed in three months and now the National Assembly is no longer discussing it? European Union or European Commission? In article 4, you said there were some technical changes. You're changing the line of words in a sentence. I wouldn't stick around for that. By Article 8 of the proposed text, you shall propose to the dafunctioner of the NB function to cease before the end of the term of office to be elected within 90 days of the day of termination of the function. You didn't predict who was changing him if his function stopped in those 90 days. I think that's also an important question. The DSS MPs said this 90-day deadline was extremely short for practical reasons. This assembly did not meet from February to practically until July of the election year. There is such a possibility that it will happen in the next period. The 10th is really for the 10th. That's what we talked about with the Constitutional Court. I think it's clear to you that the Constitutional Court cannot act in this matter. Then why don't we let all the officials in the country turn to the Constitutional Court through appeal? Then why should the National Assembly choose and resolve someone? Let's imagine a situation that can happen in practice. By law, you can have four governors. You've defined yourself for three. God forbid for Mrs Dragutinovic or one of her colleagues to be relieved, to make an appeal to the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court would consider their appeal for three years, as discussed by the DSS's request to transfer the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, to decide. In the meantime, in 90 days you choose the new two governors, come back Mrs Dragutinovic and one of her colleagues and then the National Bank has five governors. There's a violation of the law, because it's a maximum of four. Let's say that in the coming days, really, extremely well-intentioned, we talked to our colleagues from the SNS, I think there's a good will to accept the DSS amendment and get rid of it in order to avoid a precedent, which can be very dangerous, because we don't know what's going to happen tomorrow to some minister and what kind of proposal he can make in the Assembly. As for Article 11, I would like the citizens of Serbia to hear, as some of the National Bank's executive board's powers are lifted here. What is going on in your jurisdiction, that is, what will you manage and what will you control? The property of the National Bank, i.e. the property of the Republic of Serbia controlled by the National Bank, are dinar, foreign exchange, short-term, long-term placements, foreign exchange funds, securities of value, other assets and property rights owned by the National Bank of Serbia, movable and immovable items and financial assets on the jury account of the National Bank of Serbia. So, extremely large assets measured in billions of euros. It's not just some buildings, typewriters. I'm asking because an authorised promoter, three months ago, said in this room that the executive board is the authority that has the highest authority within the National Bank of Serbia and that they can re-vote the governor by number. It is necessary for the governor to be elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This solution has been accepted in the laws of all countries in the environment. Let's be an exception to this, so let's be one of your newest responsibilities. Furthermore, what I do not understand, I have noticed, and this has already happened in this assembly. What are independent members in some law? I didn't find that in the unique methodological rules adopted by the previous council. How are we going to do Article 12, which is proposed here, where is he going to stand? In the current text of the law, Article 12 refers to the Executive Board and to the Governor. In article 13, you're proposing a four, three, two-year degree. Another member of the law says it's six years old. There could be a mix-up. Indeed, anyone who does not know this matter can be confused. You know what's more important than that? I understand that completely. Members of the National Bank of Serbia Council, what about this proposal that came to the Assembly? Please, don't let us play, let's talk here on Tuesday about a proposal that's already in the process. That proposal must be withdrawn because these people have been proposed for five years. If you think it's all one thing, or someone in this room that it's all one thing, that a man who's been proposed for five years, because this law will enter on Monday, will be elected for a year or two days. I think it's a serious injury and we can't afford it. Rescind that motion for a decision. The choice of individuals cannot be changed through amendments. At the very end, I cannot accept that the National Bank Act, that the National Bank of Serbia is such an important institution, is as important as the letter "r" in "Marlboro". That's why the DSS is available. Accept our amendments so we don't look at each other again until the new year and discuss this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4092	The word is Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4093	Dear colleague Petkovic, I highly appreciate you. If you didn't listen to me, you could have at least been a colleague of Radet Obradovic, an authorised representative of your parliamentary group. Absolutely everything you said, he said as an agreement to achieve a new solution for Article 10, that is to erase the possibility of someone not having the right to a constitutional appeal, that a motion for a decision on the election of members of the Council, under the old law, was withdrawn, that we would find a solution founded by the Rules of Procedure to make the choice of members of the Council in accordance with this law. I can only think that you were at an important meeting or commitment, because also colleague Palalic, and colleague Obradovic, said everything you said. We gave them the right, even though you thought you should do it again, believe me, you tell me once, I remember. It's not a problem. You have a little inconsistency in the show. Or be like the whole normal world or not be like the whole normal world. We are trying to be as compatible as possible, comparable to what Europe is, but, like, I repeat by who knows which way, an institutionally regulated state where rules are known. In such a state, it is certain that the National Bank Act will not be applied by a small businessman who runs a str, a trade organisation, so that he does not understand whom Article 12 refers, or that we do not enter into legal security but the elected vice-reals and that their mandate remains the same, but that we achieve the phasing out of the mandate in the next election, where what is now to be applied to the members of the Council is applied. It's not hard for me to listen to criticism on account of it, but I assure you of one thing. Is there a man who can live alone without a neighborhood environment and live in a street somewhere? Can anyone live in a town without being alone? Can Serbia live alone without comparing itself with the European Union with which Russia and China work well, and Latin America, Brazil and Mexico? I just want to say that the need to be comparable, that someone can measure our results, our inflation and the growth of gross social product, to accept us as investors, we need to talk in a language that he understands. It's a language that's been accepted throughout the world. In that language, we try to speak, but also by respecting your advice, as well as the dilemma that I have brought about Article 10. I most respect you MPs, and as we have agreed with Mr. Obradovic, who first presented the idea, Article 10 is not right, in terms of disturbing the constitutional right to challenge someone's appeal. I think we will find a common solution and solve some others who are a little laughing at this respect for the opinion of the European Commission. If some had accepted in time that judicial reform was not done properly, which we warned them of, I think at least the budget deficit would have been lower. I don't want to judge how much, but to a large extent. I'm not at all embarrassed that after three months, two details that don't matter to the National Bank, but they are someone we want to work with and cooperate with, and whoever told us, not commandingly, but advisoryly, we'll be happy to accept. Before all of them, your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4094	The word has the People's MP Miroslav Petkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4095	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. I don't think we got along very well. If you thought three DSS MPs were telling a different story, you wouldn't hear it in this room. If the problem is that we repeat the views of our party, and yes, that is a compliment to you, you accept because these are good solutions and because it will fix the law, I call on you to always do so in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4096	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Discussion?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4097	In the order of the registered speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4098	You were registered, so I thought you might like a replica. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4099	I registered with you because I'm in order. The draft law on changes and additions to the National Bank of Serbia is ahead of us. I'm going to try to get your attention to analyze a total of two aspects of this bill that is before us. One represents fundamental objections, and the other is procedural objections. Before I go on to explain the fundamental remarks, which concern the members of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which I have submitted and the amendments to, first we should share the good news. Unlike many, I think the good news is that, when there is a possible problem or error in the law that the Assembly has already passed, it is re-entered into the Assembly and the mistakes of the documents, whether it has been three months, three weeks or three days since the law was passed. I would recommend to all of us who are going to submit bill proposals to behave in this way, as I think it is good that we carefully prepare proposals for acts that come into the National Assembly. There are shortcomings and there has always been, but I believe that we can reduce the shortcomings by working together and thus allow legal acts discussed and voted on by the National Assembly to be really clearly applied, without interpretation and with the consent of the European Commission, that is, all chapters and legal flows of the EU, because we have committed ourselves to this. In this regard, I would ask all the MPs, whether they consider the EU necessary, unnecessary, whether they cultivate a skeptical or optimistic attitude when it comes to changes that are happening in Serbia because we are a candidate country, that we choose our words carefully when we talk about what is the competence of the European Commission. In addition, when we talk about the European Commission's demeanor, we show our own pride for not knowing about European integration, we are doing another bad service to our legislative process, because the process of European integration is the process of rules where they make rules, we accept rules, there are no negotiations, but there are deadlines. In that sense, it is good that this bill has entered the procedure with arguments which, unfortunately, do not stand. The only real reason why this bill is a 90-day deadline which is not, and based on a previously passed law, is respected, so that officials of the National Bank of Serbia are elected. Why isn't he respected, it's not the subject of this law, it's not my subject, but in the bill of law that tries to break that 90-day deadline that has given itself the majority who voted for it, but the damage is common, I have no guilt, no responsibility, nothing, what happened to the proposal that such a mistake was tried to correct? Article 10th and Article 14 is the focus of my fundamental remarks. On Article 10, there were speeches and fellow MPs from the DSS Parliament Club, not with the same explanation, but we share the same attitude and the same amendment that this Article 10 should be deleted. What does article 10 say that changes Article 28 by adding attitudes? He says – against the resolution decision, the NBS official has the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court, with the declaration of appeal excluding the right to file a constitutional appeal. With the hope that an agreement will be reached, I consider the debate we have so far had the opportunity to hear useful, in order to avoid, in future, putting members of the law that are so clearly contrary to the Constitution. Article 14 is the second member I propose to delete, and here's the explanation. Article 14 reads, "The Governor and Vice-Governmentals of the National Bank of Serbia selected under the Law on the National Bank of Serbia -- the so-called "Official Messenger", the numbers in which this law was published -- will continue to run until the end of the term of office they were elected." Nobody slows it down for them. This member is a clean surplus. On the Committee on European Integration, we had problems with the representatives of the National Bank and there is my request to Mrs Tabakovic, because I know that she respects the Assembly and respects the work of the MPs, because she knows what it is to do, so that we would be very glad that our conversators, on behalf of the National Bank of Serbia, respect the MPs, in the debate, in an interview with the Committee on European Integration. So, this Article 14, and I now ask the authorised representative, or the proposing representative, to seriously consider why this Article 14. Any other provision of amendments and additions shall not put into question any question the mandate of elected officials. This only represents a member who emphasizes that something is already in effect. I would ask you to take a careful look, and if we delete that article, the law will look much better, any doubt will be removed who will be chosen by his changes and additions, who will not be chosen. Here we come to the procedural remarks which were also mentioned, but I do not think sufficiently, with thanks to the colleagues who are following the procedure and in the Assembly and the procedure for calling the session and during the session, one of the reasons for the session that was under way and the appointment of today's regular session was to do so before the elections, or before putting it on the agenda for the election of the National Bank of Serbia Board of Governors, which was submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and which the Assembly put on the agenda. The problem that I hope will be solved in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is because this decision is based on a member who, in the event that all the proposed changes and additions are made, will cease to apply. There was a dilemma amongst us about the messages we received, whether they would be withdrawn or not, and that is not the authority of the promoter. So, the objection I make to the procedure does not concern the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and I consider it inappropriate to refer to it for what will happen with the decision to elect the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. This is our house's business. With that governor, she has absolutely nothing. Just because of the stenogram I want it to be perfectly clear, because we will be waiting to discuss it in a few days next week, our MPs, because our procedure is not about the National Bank of Serbia or the governor's powers in any way. The motion that is now in the procedure, which should be on the agenda, when we continue to hold the session, can't be the point of the agenda. I pray that, regardless of whether it will be withdrawn or under business opportunities, it will be re-voted to put a decision on how it can be, on the basis of the previously passed law, but not to allow ourselves, in the stenograms of our work, which does not depend on the promoter, on not paying attention to us or on the notion that we know everything and that we do not need to listen to anyone, to remain a procedural error which will eventually endanger the choice of people who have nothing to do with it. So, I deliberately don't mention the names and last names of people who are in the proposal for a decision to elect the National Bank of Serbia Council, because I respect them and respect them and I don't think their names can be in any of our presentations that we warn about the situation that arises after the adoption of the amendments and the addition of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. What will be the direct consequence of such a passed law after the debate on amendments, with one more request, to look at all Article 14 and make sure that it is unnecessary? The elected governor and three vice governors are in the term to which these amend and supplement the bill and do not apply. We'll have two lessons from these changes and additions. The first is that, before we decide to comment on what the European Commission is doing, let's think about it and read it first, because it says everything somewhere. The second is that whenever we put a bill into the Assembly, we take care of which laws are part of legal fluids, which are not, that we do not have a disagreement as we do in this case, different legislators of the same law. The third is to listen carefully to each other when we comment on the provisions that are proposed or when we make suggestions that some provisions change, because neither is any thanks that comes without arguments useful to anyone, nor is any criticism that comes with arguments harmful to anyone. We are here together to make the best possible way out of the situation we are in, where the serious objections of the European Commission to the NBS institution remain, where we all have this problem and debate with EU representatives, to try to at least try to remove some of the grudges. In three months' time, I would like to get the amendment and the additions that are fully in line with the European Commission's analysis of all the shortcomings that remain in the letter that have already been discussed. I repeat, the good news is that the statute will be taken care of by the NBS, as it should be. Thank you for listening to me and I end up hoping that there will be hearing about Article 14 that needs to be deleted from the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4100	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4101	Thank you, Mrs. Komic, for a very constructive discussion. First of all, Article 10 that others mentioned, we agreed, we'll see on the Finance Committee whether to delete it, not to create a problem that many have pointed out. For Article 14, we will check with those who are better understood in this part of the legal problem whether by eradicating a certain misunderstanding about when they are elected and in which status management is currently elected. I say, I promise we'll really seriously consider whether there's a problem if it's erased or not. Whether you are angry with the others or not, you are the only one who has asked the right and the essential question – why are we talking about this now? I claim, and you can find out at the National Bank, it's no longer such a closed institution, it's very open and transparent to what the public can know and what doesn't endanger the privacy of banks, this privacy by the signs of a quote I can say, not that we did in time what we needed, we even prepared the statute by respecting the law and we would be within the deadlines. Since the talks with those we respect are, as far as possible, the International Community and those we want to work with, it would be extremely inconclusive on our part to adopt and accept a new council chosen by law, which is part of an unsupervised mandate. It would be like -- I'm talking to you to respect your opinion, but I'm actually doing what I do, because how I'm going to create legal uncertainty afterwards and that these people, like you won't even mention them with full rights, that we don't unnecessarily put them in an awkward situation, we expose any kind of inconvenience, I won't say a harsher word. Until we got the consent of those we consider to be well-intentioned, relevant and important to Serbia, we did not send you as the National Bank a bill. That's why this late and urgent procedure was submitted to the bill. I'm a very honest and honest person, and we haven't even started to write an explanation until we got the consent of the essential institutions that wanted to help this at this point be acceptable both to Serbia and the European Commission and to all other institutions. Why were we waiting for them? The council, which you rightly say is in charge of the Finance Committee, as a selection of members brings a three-month report and submits to this assembly, and we are in the National Bank, with the old council still working, having a dilemma about whether we should report to the National Bank as the old authorities. All people cooperate, from Mr. Zivkovic, indeed, and I must say how well we still work with these people, as well as Mr. Milojko Arsic, and Josephis, and Nikola Martinovic, to all the people who were in the National Bank at the Council, we still treat them to the Council, we deliver all the reports, all the data, all the information, because until we choose new advice, when I say we choose to think of all of us, they function. We had a dilemma about whether to file a report and sign it or whether it would be a new piece of advice. Since the Council has passed the interview, believe me, I've been pushing myself to get consent to these changes, so that you can get a signed report prepared by the old council, and the signature will be a new one. I see this as an advantage that we have all succeeded together at the National Bank to achieve, thanks to those who were before, and also to those who would come as advice, as to us who work here, because we have established that line of co-operation between those before and these now. For all of them and for your sake, I really do expect, and we have a business opportunity, to withdraw the decision on members of the Council who will again, by what I know from the Finance Committee, be the same. Just to determine the number of years, and the law provides for the president to be five, to be able to also manage the director of the Supervisory Authority, who performed the interview, to do as soon as possible and not to enter into the delay, but also to preserve the authority of this home and to respect the opinion of all of you and to end the constitution of all organs and to continue to do our job. In that sense, I am very grateful for every suggestion you've given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4102	Thank you. Mrs. Jovana Mechandzic, on what basis are you answering? (Jovana Mechandzic, from the post: In order, since they are not there before. I'll call you back. Since MPs: Radmila Gerov, Milica Delević, Srdjan Mikovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Ivan Jovanovic and Teodora Vlahovic are not there, there is a folk MP, Jovana Mehandzic. Here you go, Mrs. Mechandzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I do have a word. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, are meeting today for the second time during the previous three months on the NBS Law. In August, we witnessed the adoption of discriminatory amendments to the law, they were passed. So we're working under the circumstances today. At that time, the DS MPs made it clear to you that the gaps that would arise as a consequence of the adoption of these amendments to the law, the collapse of one institution or at least its independence, by making the governor of the NBS one political figure. So this is about the personal independence of Serbia's Central Bank Governor, on the one hand, but also about the institutional independence of the Central Bank of Serbia. The two aspects of Serbia's Central Bank's independence have been seriously compromised and questioned. In your explanation and reasons for law-making and for passing laws by emergency procedure, you said the following things, and I'm going to have to quote that. Some of the solutions prescribed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on NBS have raised doubts and questioned their compliance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, i.e. with the legal assets of the EU, and it is important to remove them in the process of negotiations between the Republic of Serbia and the EU. As these solutions concern the institutional and personal independence of the Central Bank, it is necessary to remove any misunderstandings in the interpretation of this law and to propose the immediate adoption of these amendments and additions. Accordingly, one of the objectives of the adoption of this law is to further draw closer to the provisions of the Treaty on EU and Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, and especially to the provisions of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, given the strategic commitment of the Republic of Serbia to join the EU. He also says that it is proposed that this law be adopted by emergency procedure under circumstances that could not be pre-planned, in order to meet international obligations and comply with EU rules. I ask you, in fact, when you discovered what the EU's functioning treaty, the Treaty on European Union and these statutes of central banks, so what does the rules under which the EU government are prescribed? Why only now three months later did you find out? You state that the reasons for the emergency procedure were circumstances that could not be foreseen. With all due respect to your expertise, I believe that you could have predicted these unforeseen circumstances and that you could have avoided the reasons for urgency by perhaps better planning and better organisation in a normative sense, and not that we are now in a situation that is repeated. So, over the last three months or 100 days, the government's session has been interrupted, new proposals are scheduled to be made for the Vice-Governors and then withdrawn, and now we hear that by the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, you will be re-changed by some members of the laws that you have already changed. I understand the circumstances in which you are currently in place, where you have just begun to do this new job of yours, but I ask you to really take care of the integrity of the institution you are currently representing and leading and to plan well, at least the following steps so that we do not come into a situation to see each other again in three months after some other amendments to this law. Or worse, to suggest what we as DS are pointing at right now. In your oral interpretation of this law, you said you were proposing changes because you were so suggested by international institutions. Of course, I was paraphrasing that because I can't quote you because you said it orally. I think I should draw attention to you on behalf of the DS that we should not reform and change because someone else dictates, but because we believe that this is right and that it brings improvement to Serbia and our society. A reasoned debate and discussion on what international institutions suggested were good solutions, but also what they suggested were bad solutions. For the objectivity of this discussion, I ask you to answer me one question and tell me exactly what exactly the bad solutions are that still require changes in the opinion of the European Commission, because it is obvious that there are them, because there are MPs here who have information that have them. Although there are no negative comments on the amendments and additions to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, you are telling us clearly and briefly that there are no negative comments from international institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4104	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4105	I ask you not to blame me on my personal tone, because I especially like you for being so busy and valuable, and if you allow me to say in anticipation of another new life, I will really, as I am able to learn from young people, with the pleasure of listening to what you say, because I also have grown children and I am happy to learn from them. But I'm neither young nor ignorant and none of my moves are a beginner's mistake. These are complicated circumstances in which Serbia is trying to make its way, to take every good step in the right direction. But do you think it's time to turn away from the story of institutional independence to the story of democratic responsibility. Let older colleagues tell you how much money has been scattered abroad in various independent institutions, for example today the World Bank advises us to do corporate work for public enterprises where privatisation is not necessarily a solution, not a change of owners, but rather a better business where plan, realisation, responsibility for success or responsibility for failure. In such circumstances, my dear young colleague, I want you to welcome that very soon this corporation is understandable to foreigners and to those who come to Serbia and more clearly than they could possibly possibly understand in the Development Fund, and they have recorded it as a very controversial property, or controversial bookkeeping of something that they cannot understand. They live in a system that has always been private property or state property. What was social property for them was very controversial. It is also, I answer your question – what remains disputed in the law, much disputed has been clarified in comparing two legally different systems in which they fully accept the principle of responsibility that we all insist on, especially us who talk about this law as democratic responsibility. But it's like putting up an account when you're spending state money or getting public authority, not just as control and supervision in terms of monitoring police research. That's why we needed so much time, and that's why we went into the chateau because we exchanged letters with everyone who wanted to hear us, explaining, and not accepting, they're looking and we're taking and we're calm, we wanted to show them how much the misunderstanding between us and them is more of a cause for misunderstanding than there are really different solutions. Do you know what's left of a different solution? Judicial protection. I don't know what areas you're from in terms of law, economy, but the European Central Bank and judicial protection when they have problems with resolved officials, they can't understand that we have courts like we had, that we don't have specialized courts, that we introduced notaries yesterday, that we have problems that we have. They simply believe that there should be judicial protection and all the problems that colleagues rightly raised, that the Administrative Court cannot resolve what is the jurisdiction of this assembly, as well as the choice of officials, they simply cannot be repacked, and they do not have the need, because they do not depend on us, to understand it. When we explain to them that we come to a conflict of constitutionality, or we come to a standstill in the functioning of an institution or four governors at once, and we had practice, that I don't remind you of that, then they imagine and say they don't even know what to do. We found ourselves in such a problem that we said – does anyone know how to define how to respect two extremes, and to solve the problem, not to appear with changes. It's not my wish, it's not my day lost. On the contrary, it was not a difficult day for me. I really care to assure you, not only do we have the best intentions, but we do the best we can, that we've included even then today the best experts and the world's, and we'll do it domestically. That's all that's left. The problem of judicial protection they have as the EU and as the European Central Bank, and we in Serbia do not have any kind of court or jurisdiction that could cover these situations. In some earlier amendments to the National Bank Act, many of us objected when the NBS took over judicial powers for labour disputes with its employees. The rest is open and it's defined by law power as if there's no problem. Recently last July, 18 people were transferred from the National Bank to the Ministry of Finance. Here, Mr. Cvetkovic knows that. By agreement, Mr. Soskovic, Mr. Cvetkovic, as governor and finance minister, i.e. the prime minister, took 18 people, and that the way to define their employment at the National Bank and transfer to the Ministry of Finance was not legal, because the working relationship of people employed in the National Bank is not only by the law that defines civil servants, nor by the law that defines the labour contract and the Labour Act, but not by what the officials are. These people feel very abused, because they are literally without any explanation sent to the Ministry of Finance without it being legal. Mr. Cvetkovic can confirm that and can't say that's not exactly what he's saying. Their rights have been questioned. There's no perfection. I fight, like you, for justice, even if it's perfect and imperfect. I really expect your support in that. Without support or alone with my team, I'll keep doing it. Thank you for your contribution. I hope I've answered your question.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4106	Thank you. Replica, MP Jovana Mehandzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4107	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. In these six and a half or seven minutes you've been saying, you haven't given me an answer to the question I asked. I asked a question of negative comments from international institutions, to tell me exactly who they are, and if they're not there, to tell me they're gone. So I didn't ask the question of what's been cleared up, but what's not cleared up, to quote your expression, so I'm asking you for one brief answer within a minute and a half, two, just to give me a tactical indication of what the problems are that remain because we're all here, who are present from the DS, sure that there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4108	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4109	I said I'll do it again. Judicial protection, Article 10, is a way of protecting resolved officials because of the specificity of the judiciary as well as differences between us and that of the EU. I don't have the authority to deliver it to you because it's an internal communication letter from none of those international institutions. It's the only thing that's left uncleared in this law, that's not done until the end, and we're left to handle it. Besides, you'll see for yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4110	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4111	Thank you. Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Governor, I will be brief, given that my colleagues from the DS parliamentary group have said a lot about what has been said about this law, about amendments and additions to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that it is three months later, but it is never too late, the observed remark that I most insisted on in front of my parliamentary group in the work and pointed out that the National Assembly should not give consent to the Statute of the National Bank and pointed out that there is a huge difference between institutions that should be independent and public-public enterprises and other public enterprises, to which the Assembly should give its consent to the Statute. At the same time, there is something in this proposed new text, and given that Mrs. Governor is here, I would draw attention to this. In this text there are in the first member of the amendments, there is alignment with other laws, which is very good and positive, in order to create a consistent legal system. It was introduced that the National Bank also performs the protection of the rights and interests of users of services provided by banks, financial lease providers, insurance companies and voluntary pension fund management companies. So everything is in accordance with the law. I know what laws that's in line with. What I have no objection to, but what I want to point out and what I ask is that this protection of the rights and interests of the users of the services of these institutions is not only directed at these institutions when they violate the rights of their users, but also at those of others who abuse and violate the rights of these users. These days, we are witnessing a major violation of the rights of the user by misusing official data from those who have official secrets and being bid on the public. Data that are also protected under the Banks Act should not be used in public. In this way, major damage has been done to economic operators. The second thing I'm going to say is that with this alignment that's been done and that for every commendation, in my opinion, remains my dissatisfaction with some, perhaps I'm mistaken, for me, still, not quite well and systematically positioned director of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Authority. Not because of his work in control of institutions, but as part of the National Bank's collective. Those changes we've had and how I understand collective work in one institution, where it's normal for the governor to be the first on that team, simply, the role of director in that is still not defined enough for me. Personal solutions can be ideal, but they're personal solutions he has today, no tomorrow. It is best when these questions are asked systemically, because then we depend less on personal solutions. As last, without great elaborate, I want to support all my fellow Members of the People's Parliament who have pointed out Article 10. Article 10. The draft law makes practical exceptions to Article 170. The Constitution. That's the constitutional appeal here so many times mentioned. Simply, exceptions to the constitutional appeal can only be made in the Constitution. In my opinion, you can't make exceptions to the Constitution by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4112	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4113	Thank you for giving me the creamworth to say one very important thing, which is that after the end of these jobs here, the National Bank will start meetings not only with banks, but with all the organisations involved in protecting the users of financial services of a variety of consumer organisations because I will not open up problems of duty in Swiss francs, in the promises that the banks are making, and then they do not meet, but I would not like to talk about it this way, because we are with the Association of Banks in preparation for the meeting that should be with those who provide this service to open up all the systematic remarks we receive from the users and to first open them to banks and these financial organisations, and if we do not find a solution, then go with what is the public embarrassment of those who do not behave in the system according to what protection is, on the contrary, but a violation of the rights of the beneficiary of financial services. When it comes to the Director of the Supervisory Authority, only the Statute will systematically resolve his position. There's absolutely no reason for anyone to worry that someone is so ignorant or short-sighted that they create a two-alignment in which, as you know, when two respond, no one answers. You must know exactly who's in charge of what, but in some ways you're already in the house avoiding discretionary rights for someone to withdraw their license for any reason. I know what the importance of the financial system in this banking system is, and precisely for reasons of raising responsibility to a higher level in the National Bank itself, we want to edit that part in the best way possible and in accordance with the best practice that exists in the environment. You pointed out the part that talks about it, which is often forgotten, that we all exist because of citizens, banks and NBS and this Parliament. If he doesn't see people and their problems stemming from the arrogant behavior of any of us, then we've all missed the subject. Thank you for reminding us all what the subject really is, protecting the users of financial services.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4114	Thank you. Is Jadranka Joksimovic there? No, it's not. ) Is Dragomir Karic there? No, it's not. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask before concluding a principled search whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who did not exercise his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Madam Governor and Members of the People. Six hours later, DS saw no new argument to support this law. Not because we don't think he's important, but because we've seen very well that our August-month arguments are still in place. Three months ago, these are facts, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the NBS Act came to us, where we are told that it should not be brought into line with any text that has anything to do with the EU. Today we are getting the text of amendments and the addition of the law on the same matter, where we see that there is a need for alignment with fundamental texts that are, in fact, the EU Constitution, on the one hand, and the statute of all central banks within that Union. It's a good thing it's seen now. The problem is that this coordination procedure is not complete. Since that was the story, the DS will put on our party's website what was received by the European Commission, so that all citizens can see that this job is not finished. It doesn't match in half. What's left is that there's still criticism of the two-state government within the NBS. The position of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Authority is undefined, and at the same time it is very clear that what we have been pointing to all this time, and it is worsened by the fact that after the election as governor, we have Mrs Tabakovic, who has been chosen past the prospect of her own will. I don't know how that's possible. You have the right to be a free woman, a member of our society, and elected to the number two party in power. It is an exception to a long-standing, decades-old practice in all countries of the world. It's either politics or the management of the Central Bank. Mrs. Tabakovic, we will be in a few weeks, during which month we will again have on the agenda of this Assembly new changes and additions because it cannot go to Europe in half, and at the same time if you really and sincerely want to be a partner to all the other governors in Europe and the world, which we want, then you will have to resign to the number two SNS. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-01-0.u4116	I'm concluding a principle search on the bill and I'd like to inform you that we will continue our work Monday at 10.00 hours, which means 5.11.2012. Thank you.
