ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5794	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the province of Vojvodina and the Honorable Mr. Minister, reporting by article 27 and Madam Chairman reminds you that you should take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. I am reporting for this reason because there is a possibility that, as of yesterday, major problems arise in the conduct of this session, since we had a problem with this electronic system when reporting to the MPs for replicas and by the Rules of Procedure. In order not to create the same chaos, it would be good for you to set a break, invite the presidents of the parliamentary clubs and discuss how you will conduct the session. It is very important that no such extreme situations occur again when MPs were unable to obtain replicas, when they could not come to the words, to respond to Mr. Minister's reaction, to the presentation of MPs, when the replica was completely losing its meaning for which it was established, without talking about the Rules of Procedure. So, it is very important to prevent possibly some excess that could happen as two years ago when the Minister of Economy, when the Minister of Economy almost physically attacked Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, then the MP and now Governor of the NBS. At that time, Mr Tomislav Nikolic was also punished, now the president of the state for insulting Mr. Minister, Mr. Dinkic. So let's not make a circus out of this Parliament again. Let us debate as MPs, and it would be good to draw attention to Mr. Minister before the debate begins, that he is here only the minister who has come to represent the law, and that MPs have the right to make arguments without, in any case, having the role of the victim intended for them whenever Mr. Minister answers them in a rather offensive manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5795	So if there are problems with the electronic system, we'll call in professional services and we'll try to remove the problem. There isn't a problem yet, I hope we don't have a problem today. I ask the MPs and ask the members of the Government that we all together preserve the dignity of this house and continue the debate on the established agenda. Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5796	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, the essence of this amendment was to find funds within the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport for two important functions. The first part of the funds refers to the backlog of workers of many collectives, companies in Nis who had to seek their rights to back-up profits by suing their businesses. When these complaints became legal, they could not be carried out because they were restructured companies. They addressed the court in Strasbourg, and according to the rulings, the government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a regulation to record all outstanding earnings in all possible judgments, so that the state will make up for those backlogs. I note that there are about 5,000 employees of more Nish companies, or about 100,000 minimum earnings from the total sum of about two billion dinars. Given that these funds are not foreseen in the budget, various redistributions are intervened to provide money for the payment of these minimum earnings because they are indeed the most endangered of the population. The second part of the amendment concerns the Ministry of Transport and the provision of initial means to move the railway from the city centre of Nis. Namely, the international railway is passing through the core itself, the city's core in Nis, which has more than 30 spring crossings at a level where more than 150 people have lost their lives over the last 50 years. The city of Nis is trying to solve this problem for more than 20 years. A general urban plan has been adopted, a detailed regulation plan has been put in place and it is necessary to provide the initial means for the implementation of this project because we believe it is inadmissible to endanger the safety of the population and stop traffic in the city itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5797	The word is from the MP Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5798	Mr. President, I just checked in with article 107, but you didn't give me your word. This time I want to show you that it would be good to protect this parliament from the psychicism of our colleague who predicts that something might happen with a sound system, which evokes memories of something that was happening to the team and warns the minister of some things that might happen. I think it really is a violation of the 107th and dignity of this House and it happens day by day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5799	You heard that after Mrs Popovic was presented, I asked all the MPs to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5800	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I want you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5801	I'm sorry, I gave you my word, but I see it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so here you go, Mrs. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5802	Madam President, there has just been a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and this is Article 106, so it is precisely that I intervened in time, so that such a violation of the Rules of Procedure will not take place to a large extent, and it is a violation of the dignity of this Parliament, because when you insult the MPs, you also insult this Parliament. You as chairman, if you tolerate it and don't warn, normally you're breaking the Rules of Procedure and that's why I called. So, if someone directly addresses the MP with a note that he is potentially predicting or using some psychic abilities, it is an insult to this Parliament. I just asked to make a deal on some elemental order. Let's agree, if the electronic system is in trouble, how will MPs register when they report by line or by the Rules of Procedure. It is very necessary for the technical offices of things in this Parliament, so that we can do as Parliament deserves.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5803	Thank you. We will take care of this, and during the session we will inform which order the MPs have called, and if there is more than, or five MPs, then we will see how we will proceed. So we'll settle that during the session. Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5804	Just in response, this was no intention of insulting MPs or calling...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5805	Mr. Radojevic, you have no right to replica in this area. The next speaker is MP Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5806	Dear President, Mr. Minister, I would like first to support Mr. Lapčević's amendment, which he has submitted in his desire to make up for the late salaries of Nis workers. In about half an hour, I may be in line with the same amendment, only to better elaborate it and invite Minister Dinkic to see the workers, and the chairman, please do not talk to Member Judith, but to provide me with working conditions. Chairman, I don't have peace in the O.R. and I can't finish my exposure well.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5807	I ask the MPs to allow the speaker to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5808	Dear Minister Dinkic, I would like to inform you that the workers of the EI, the Jastrepca Machine Industry, the Nitex and the builder, strike every day in Nis to come to you, to come and say what kind of problems they have. They've scheduled a general strike Monday to block the city's administration, Mayor Nis, only with the desire to make a meeting with you. I am taking the opportunity as a member of the People's Parliament to invite you to receive them, you don't have to take any political party representatives, but to take in workers and talk to them and tell them what you said to your colleague Lapčević and what you're going to tell me about the amendment that you haven't found the funds in the budget for the poor workers who haven't received the salaries since 2000. These people are not asking for anything but a struggle for their lives, to collect their salaries with which they would regulate the debts they have towards state-owned enterprises, and with these money they could live with. This way, when you've had these workers who haven't had their wages settled since 2000, you'll admit they're in one big problem. Now I want to draw attention to the MPs and all those present to this badge that we are all wearing today as the chairman of the Health and Family Committee, because tomorrow is December 1st Day against the side. The youth of JAZAS asked us that all MPs bear this red sign of combating AIDS and I as professor of the Faculty and president of the Health Committee and family of the Serbian Parliament, I want to draw the public's attention that there is still discrimination in Serbia against citizens suffering from AIDS, both with health workers and with our fellow citizens. What is more important, as an appeal, is that this country must do much more in the propaganda of prevention, of a healthy life, of protecting our youth, so that it does not go into opposition to this very serious disease, and what is also important, that this one tolerance towards those same people who live among us, we do not build walls that are still being made in Serbia today, but that we realize that people are suffering from AIDS, our neighbors, relatives, colleagues, and that we do not need to turn our heads from them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5809	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5810	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, respected representatives of the AP Vojvodina, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the SPS parliamentary group will undoubtedly support this draft budget law, I am reporting on the amendment of counterpart Lapčević with a very well-intentioned suggestion concerning this problem relating to enterprises in restructuring. Since my job is related to the judiciary and that a large part of the courts and judges have certain problems, the question is how to resolve a large number of decisions of the Constitutional Court that relate to the breach of the principle of the trial within a reasonable period of time, and this is because of the inability to carry out enforcement towards the enterprises in the restructuring process, most of them rely on constitutional appeals or initiatives before the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court shall take decisions which shall take such complaints and shall generally refer the proceedings to the courts at the beginning. Having in mind again that the Constitutional Court is the final court instance before the trial is brought before the Court of Justice in Strasbourg, there is a problem with how to resolve these court decisions as well. Finally, through one suggestion, whether there is an opportunity for courts to free up the space for a trial that involves an effective trial, respect for the principle of trial within a reasonable period, and to create a particular selection of enterprises in restructuring, where enforcement will be possible, so as to allow the Supreme Court of Cassation at its session as a joint session of civil departments to take the view that the trusts represented in fact, where legitimate employees, may continue to carry out enforcement proceedings against companies in the restructuring process, so that there is no inequality and unfair position of creditors, because they are all equal and other trustees before the law and whether it is possible to make a selection of undertakings in the restructuring process, as regards the sale of their property, that a certain number of entities may be subject to the criteria of marketing or by means. I'm saying this all because in any case, this problem can have a reflection on the budget and burden the budget, and on the other hand, that the segment that relates to court proceedings, and the judiciary itself, we bring into the system that we seek, which is the efficiency of the work of the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5811	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are many enterprises in restructuring in Serbia, not just in Nis. I know that fellow Lapcevic had good intentions when he proposed such an amendment, but I also know how budgets are adopted as much as possible and what is not. It is not clear to me that someone is sitting as an MP in the past term and in this term in the Assembly and is now commenting as colleagues from the DS, and is now asking for four months of work of this government to provide money for Nis workers in this budget, and that the government of Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, who has been sitting here now as a MP and Mr Tadic, has entrusted Serbia with almost eight billion euros and has not found a dinar for Nis workers since 2000, that she has not given a single dinar for Nis workers until now, and that she has ruled and doubled Serbia's public debt for four years. Now this government needs to be found in four months for Nis workers, and for workers of the Irons in Smederevo who are now protesting, and for all other workers. You know, we can hear a lot, there's a lot to say, but at least a little bit of being serious in parliament and making sure that we don't all have the memory of a chicken between two feedings, and that we remember a little bit who, what and how he does and how much, say, he owed the country to Serbia. I repeat, the government of Mirko Cvetkovic doubled Serbia's public debt, and found no money for the workers of "Zelvos" in Smederev or for workers in Nis. That's a fact. Even though it's someone's fault... (President: Mr. Shormaz, please just come back to the topic. So we're talking about the amendment. It's about workers, right? So if someone did it, if someone's responsible for what the economy is, it's the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. Besides, that's what the citizens in the election said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5813	Thank you. Mr. Milisavlevich, just sign in because I see you're advertising the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll call less – more on the line, but on Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2, where it is said that, at the meeting of the National Assembly, no direct address of the MP to the other MP, use of offensive expressions, as well as the presentation of facts and evaluations, relating to the private life of other persons. I want to tell you that Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic's previous government has calmed down the service, i.e. Connected a work experience that wasn't regulated in the previous years. These workers across Serbia, thanks to the previous government, had the opportunity to get medical books, to refuse retirement, which they could not until then. Using the basis for the monthly salary to be paid as a minimum of 20,000 and my proposal in the plenary session was that this government used the same method, that monthly income would be used as a minimum of 20,000, and that would be a solution. I think Mr. Dinkic, however... (President: Mr. Milisavljevic, please, you have reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure do not use that time for replication. ) Can I use the time of my parliamentary group to continue and finish? (President: You can come in when you're up.) Since you've reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please wait for the other speakers to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5815	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević, who is entitled to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5816	Well, let me get this straight. Maybe it wasn't clear. So more than 5,000 workers sued their businesses for not receiving salaries for more than 10 years. The Strasbourg court has acted according to certain judgments and ordered that those executive judgments be actually carried out. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a regulation in April, envisioning that all the workers who filed the lawsuits are registered and have executive rulings before the courts. The regulation was extended in September of this year and runs until the end of this year. Since the budget for the following year does not provide for funding on any basis for the payment of these residual earnings, the amendment was precisely in that direction, since the duration of the regulation ends by the end of the year, to provide or provide for the funds for the payment of these residual earnings. So the workers of Nis are no less valuable, no less important than everyone else. The government of the Republic of Serbia has repeatedly intervened in Kragujevac, Vranj, Bor, over the previous period to help many poor business employees, who had no money to pay their salaries. I don't see any reason why you wouldn't intervene in this case. In this way, the equality of all the citizens of Nis is ensured. Nis citizens are not less important, nor are Nis workers less important than others. I think this would be really correct and fair. In the end, why even bring about a backlog regulation, if it will not be implemented next year. The main way to implement it is to budget funds for this, and I think it is crucial that this amendment be adopted, and of course, I call on Minister Dinkic to say something about this. I think the topic is really important, especially from the aspect Mr. Milisavljevic was talking about, that several thousand Nis workers will block the City House on Monday and will not allow it to continue unless there is a meeting with the minister and the government's authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5817	Thank you. The word is Hope Kolundji, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5818	Madam Chairman, I call on article 27 and your obligation to keep an eye on how you manage this assembly, to Article 103, which clearly tells you under what conditions, if the MP requests a breach of the Rules of Procedure and lists an adequate member who is injured, explains why a member is injured, you have no right to take away his word based on your assumption of what he might say. So, I ask you, in your desperate effort to court the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to please them, do not insult the dignity of the National Assembly. So the MP called, called a member, explained where the breach of the Rules of Procedure occurred. The only thing you could have done was explain to the MP whether the injury was done or not, but you had no right to take away his word. So your behavior is really inadmissible, as it happened yesterday. Yesterday, you were the harshest possible way to hurt the Rules of Procedure, also taking away the word from the MP at the session where questions are being asked to the government. That's why the government is here, so the MPs will ask her a question, and you're not here to judge whether it's awkward or not awkward for the minister and thus take away the word. Please take care of the dignity of this house.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5819	Thank you, Mrs. Kolundji. I will remind you of Article 103(4), which speaks - the MP is obliged to indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the President of the National Assembly and to explain what the infringement consists of, with which he can speak for up to two minutes. So the gentleman did not explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure to which he was called, but was replicating the previous speaker. That's why I asked him, and given Article 27, The Rules of Procedure, that they should take care of order in the National Assembly and respect the Rules of Procedure, I did so. Here you go, Mrs. Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5820	Of course I'm not happy with your answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5821	On what grounds did you answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5822	I have the right to say that I am not satisfied with your answer and to ask whether or not in the voting day we plead on it? Please learn the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5823	In the day of the vote, the Assembly will declare the injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5824	You have the right to warn the People's Rules of Procedure once or twice, but not to take away his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5825	Thank you for your instructions. Let's move on. The word is Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5826	I'm reporting for the amendment. Based on what my predecessors said, I'd like to present a few facts that are certainly not irrelevant. The previous government, in a difficult economic situation, took care of every job and took care of the workers, as far as they were in a difficult economic situation. When it comes to borrowing and what the predecessor was talking about, in all likelihood, and when it comes to dealing with workers, this government will not, in all likelihood, have any employment policy or social policy, and will use interceptor covers, type of listening, etc. to satisfy the public, and will not deal with basic life problems. The government, when it comes to borrowing, has realised that 139 euros is owed in one second. Within half an hour as he sits here, Minister Dinkic is in charge of 25,020 euros, so much for borrowing on so much care for workers, and the case for Nisa speaks enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5827	Mrs. Kolundjia, have you called or by any chance?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5828	No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5829	Okay. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 and Sections 16, 19, 20, 23 and 24, the amendment was submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Radoman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5830	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I address on behalf of the Vojvodina Assembly. Before you is the third amendment of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, on the draft law on the budget of the Republic for 2013. These amendments seek to achieve the Constitution of guaranteed rights and obligations of the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as the AP Vojvodina budget. The amendment seeks to amend Article 7. It's a bill of law. it is the result of the proposed amendment to Article 6 of the Law, which requires a change in the structure of the revenue structure of the AP Vojvodina budget for 2013. It seeks to achieve the quality structure of Vojvodina's budget income. This can be achieved by replacing the transfer funds financed by the responsibilities of the Republic budget of Vojvodina, relating to secondary education, primary education, and dedicated and non-intentional transfers to municipalities. The amendment seeks to replace these funds with part of the funds stemming from excise duties on the territory of Vojvodina. The objective of these amendments is to protect the constitutional rights of two million people of Vojvodina, and thus Serbia as a whole, that is to say respect for the constitutional provision of Article 184 that the 3/7 budget of the AP Vojvodina must be used to finance capital investments in the territory of Vojvodina. This amendment therefore proposes to amend Article 7 of the law by reducing individual expenditures and expenditures totalling 32 billion dinars. The reduction in expenditure of 32 billion dinars, as proposed by this amendment, represents 2.16% of projected expenditure and expenditure in the Republic's budget, and 66% of the province's budget revenue. Finally, we expect this Assembly to accept amendments to the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, which are based on the Constitution and thus enable the assembly of the AP Vojvodina to adopt the 2013 budget on the basis of the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5831	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5832	Ambassador Risticevic explained to you yesterday why excise duties cannot be used as a means of financing the province's budget. For a simple reason, because the place of production and the place of consumption are not in the same place. I have no reason to repeat what I was saying yesterday, what Mr. Risticevic was saying, but I think that after such an explanation every further insistence that excises be classified as the province's income is meaningless.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5833	Thank you. Mr. Radoman has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5834	It is indeed an interesting call to such an expert opinion. I told you it's quite possible and there's no bother in doing so.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5835	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5836	I must say that he is much more professional than the amendment's promoter, since what Mr Risticevic was saying yesterday was in line with European practice far more than what you suggested, and you stand for the European Vojvodina. What does that mean? It's impossible to share excise income territorially. The refinery exists only in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, one in Panchev, the other in Novi Sad, and all Serbian citizens drive cars, spend gasoline. No matter where the excise duty is produced, it cannot be paid only on the territory of Vojvodina, given that it is spent by all Serbian citizens. The same applies to cigarettes produced in factories in Vojvodina, smoked by all Serbian citizens and any precise division of these excise duties is simply impossible. I may speak a little more conservative language than Mr. Risticevic, but Mr. Risticevic explained this in his own language much better, why there are reasons why no country divides consumption tax by territorial principle, but this represents the income of the central state in all countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5837	Thank you. The word is Mr. Radoman, by the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5838	I must note that the transfers assigned to Vojvodina and related to primary and secondary education, the transfers to municipalities, too, originate from these sources. When it comes to transfers then it's possible to work, and when it comes to something else then it's not possible. I really don't see any reason why these funds can't be channeled into the Duke's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5839	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5840	Now you're chasing pots. Transfers are expenses, and excises are revenues. You're talking about two completely different things.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5841	Thank you. Mr. Radoman has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5842	Accizes are income. We say that these revenues are really directed, not only to the Republic's budget but also to the province's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5843	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5844	As a man who lives in Vojvodina, as someone who advocated Vojvodina's autonomy back in 1990, so when it was very dangerous, someone who installed his party's autonomy program, I believe I'm qualified enough to try to explain something and make a difference between autonomy and state. I'm afraid this isn't about autonomy, it's about someone talking about soup and meat coming out. So someone when they say autonomy he means state. I'll talk about the powers of the AP Vojvodina. I see these former regimes are smiling. And they should smile. In the 1990s, they were against the autonomy of the Vojvodina. We've had a lot of trouble getting them to accept that idea of autonomy, and today they're smiling and they're the greatest protectors of Vojvodina autonomy. I think there was no sudden death of Mr Djukic, who was the previous finance minister, or previous finance secretary in the AP Vojvodina government, to make it easier to explain to him what incomes and expenditures are. What I'm built up as a man living in Vojvodina, which is a farming region, are subsidies. So, amendments to both this amendment and the amendment to Article 1. The Parliaments of the AP Vojvodina are seen to have significantly reduced subsidies to agriculture. With this amendment, they demand that the Agrarian Payments Administration be reduced from 26 billion to 23 billion. They demand that three billion subsidies in agriculture be reduced, in agrarian payments, and in Serbia's budget as a whole, that it be reduced by 12 billion. Of those 12 billion I believe that at least nine billion belong to the farmers of Vojvodina. What's this about? Do they seek money exclusively for the government of the Vojvodina or ask for money for farmers in Vojvodina? To reverse the question, is it better if this money is given to farmers in the territory of the Vojvodina or that the money they are asking for is to reduce subsidies, to get that money to the government of Vojvodina who will certainly not direct it to farmers? Secondly, economic subsidies, which also partly come to Vojvodina, asked to be reduced from 18 billion to four. They were conceits, they told the workers, they said they had nothing to eat that they didn't have children to warm up, etc., and on the other hand they asked to reduce subsidies to the economy. So, to keep a certain number of workers out of work, not to be able to dress, train their children, feed, and not be able to warm them up. On the other hand, brothers in sweat, brothers in blisters, peasants who are asked to give up, because of Pajtic, part of the subsidy, to transfer it to the government of Vojvodina and then spend it on some party principle. That's what I said yesterday and I can't accept it. I can accept that they came in nicely and spoke to the MPs from the territory of Vojvodina. That didn't occur to them. In that case, I would support all the amendments of the Vojvodina that are in favor of all the Dukes. Apparently, they propose amendments only to those in favour of the government of Vojvodina and one party holding power there, which, through this money and the electoral system, wants to re-establish itself. That won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5845	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5846	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Mr Minister, regardless of what you said several times yesterday during your presentation, how many times did the MPs, the countries of Serbia, etc. We're using this Vojvodina, we're going to continue today. Several MPs mostly from the opposition insisted yesterday that we only ask that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia be respected. You have memorized one single discussion of the ruling majority's representatives, to whom all your MPs from the ruling majority laughed. That's sad. That's why, if we have to do it all over again, and unlike you, who, I don't know how, on the basis of which Rules of Procedure, we're going to say that now it's on the agenda and we're currently discussing the third amendment of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. We distinguish incomes from expenditure, and you only talked about excises. This amendment does not mention excise duties. The excises were mentioned in the second amendment. Of course it would be ideal if all three amendments were in the package, because that's all that makes sense, you accepted, but you refused all three, so at least explain this third. Here it mentions, or proposes to cut expenditures by 32 billion. Simply, this amendment is technical. We didn't want to talk about him, but it's necessary for the first and second amendments. The first amendment mentions the reduction of both income and expenditure, and the second mentions these revenues, i.e. the second amendment is basic. It is actually used to respect the Constitution, in order to somehow ensure that the constitution guarantees 7% of the republican budget, to be the volume of the province's budget. On the other hand, try to answer us with argument and listen to us and really take us seriously, not to call on the discussion everyone laughed at. I don't think anyone but you has seen it as an expert explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5847	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5848	With great attention, I have listened to you all day and responded to suggestions that, according to the government, are not economically based. I'll do it again. You have suggested that thirty and a few billion dinars be transferred from the Duchys of Vojvodina, regardless of what I explained that Vojvodina has not received at all 15 billion dinars more than what the previous Government approved in the 2012 budget, regardless of how much I explained that we used the exact same methodology that ten years ago was used to calculate transfers in basic, medium and higher education, that nothing had changed in that methodology, that according to this methodology, Vojvodina gets 15 billion more, that regardless of what the methodology had not changed, you now want to appeal to the Constitutional Court, that it did neither former SVM nor the former Pajtic, that it makes the current SVM, the current Pajtic, that your president had not changed, as much as he said in the last few months, as he did in the last year. So he plastically explained this fictional drama, obviously, which serves you as a political platform. If the political platform is an artificial drama, it is your right, but when I represent the interests of the government, I must say that the exact same methodology that gives 15 billion dinars more to the Vojvodina respects the full constitution, because 8.7 instead of guaranteed 7% of income is given to Vojvodina. Of course, we reject the amendment which your party and which opposition parties are asking to deny farmers, to reduce subsidies to the economy, to reduce traffic costs so that excise revenues can be transferred to the province administration, that the province's administration can freely continue to accumulate losses in the Capital Investment Fund, to further make losses, as it has done in the past few years. 300m euros have been made in Vojvodina Development Bank. Is that why you're asking us to give the Serbian farmers money to the administration, who will then spend it? He can't. I said no, because it's economically wrong, legally unnecessary and the government won't give up on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5849	Thank you. Minister, please hold for two minutes in the future, so that as many speakers as possible can be included in the discussion. The word has a People's MP Elvira Kovac, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5850	Unlike you, Mr. Minister, I adhere to this Rules of Procedure. His Article 106, paragraph 2, says the speaker should discuss the subject of the agenda. You've been accusing us of doing politics for two days, not numbers. I've only talked about numbers, but since I've realized in the past few weeks that your mathematics and our mathematics have differed. You keep mentioning 15 billion, we think there's some kind of math 57. You mention 70.5. I tried to find the difference between our numbers last night and I realized that you actually included about 15 billion fictitious money for the highway. It's amazing that next year it will come to its realization. I really don't want to answer that ex-SVM. SVM is one of the few parties that really has continuity in their work. As for the Capital Investment Fund, he has huge debts thanks to the previous government in which you, Mr Dinkic, participated. No matter what you're saying right now, it's like you don't have any touch points with that former government, the former regime, as you like to say, but you were involved. That central government knows best how much it owes the Capital Investment Fund and why that fund actually has debts. Because he simply didn't receive the funds that were once provided on paper. I'm really asking you to put aside who's from which party. I didn't mention yesterday that, you can look at the stenographic notes, me personally and SVM to you, he didn't threaten anyone with complaints. That may have been mentioned by some other MPs. Please don't involve us. I really respect you, because you're here with us and you're taking part in the debate, but don't do politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5851	Since it was full of speakers to avoid misunderstandings, I will read the order, so you can continue to register. The word was first answered by Mr. Radoman, followed by Aleksandra Jerkov, Janko Veselinović, Marijan Risticevic, Bojan Djuric, and Vladimir Ilic. Mr. Radoman has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5852	I've already intervened several times, and I'll repeat how many times it takes for the province's budget to be less than 70.5 or 75 billion, as you say, but significantly smaller. It is possible that there will be some implementation of projects in the province's territory, that funds may be spent on the territory of Vojvodina, but those funds will not enter the province's budget. That's what we need to know. This time I'm talking about the province's budget because I'm going to repeat it how many times it takes. As for where we intervened, which expenditures we said should be reduced, so when it comes to the budget that came quickly, since the government itself has made a set of amendments two or three times, it was difficult to decide. We've decided on what's-his-name. discretionary expenditures of 100 billion, which have until the end been determined for the purposes, i.e. no users have been identified. It will be decided by the government of the Republic of Serbia. It will decide its regulations, programmes and other sublaws. I think it's possible and a better way to find it, but this is what we suggested. Believe me, those funds that come into the province's budget will certainly be well used.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5853	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5854	Madam Vice President, here's the same debate again as yesterday, as it was a few days ago. Yesterday, for the Minister, the amendments were pointless, but today they are groundless, and the promoter is incompetent. Risking being bored again, like yesterday, which he claimed at one point, here, we proposed as a parliamentary group a very similar amendment to the one we're talking about and proposed by the government. We agree to make amends. These don't have to be excise revenues, just tell us where the budget can find 32 billion dinars, how much AP is missing to account for 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. We'll make amends. I believe the Finance Committee could give a new amendment. The government as a promoter exists to find a way. If you think excises can't be excised, say what they can, how can they, just find a way for Vojvodina to get those funds that belong to them. The fact that you're counting on the AP Vojvodina budget, the funds that aren't in the AP Vojvodina budget, reminds me of when your party vice president double-counted for a highway in Vojvodina. It's not a new practice G17, it's not a new practice of the URS and it's not a new practice of you and your associates. We had a chance to see that. You say - it's a political platform. It is better for someone's political platform to be a struggle for the rights of the people of Vojvodina than for a thousand euros of free action or for it to be the creation of a new JAT in 2012, and because someone doesn't talk about stealing votes, I remember some more who brought sacks of tobacco-stealed ballots, so you didn't mind supporting them for the highest state functions. Since you are talking about the debts of the Capital Investment Fund and the problem at Vojvodina Development Bank have arisen over the past few years, talk to your party's provincial board. They were very actively involved in this government of Vojvodina, they very actively supported it, and if they had crossed the censorship in the province, I believe that you would still participate in such a government today, and that was probably former G 17 plus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5855	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5856	It is certainly worrying that we are talking about the budget on the third day, the subject of respect for the Constitution and the unconstitution and budget, the previous Law on the Budgetary System. That's something to worry about. We are not talking about the real problems this budget carries with it, which is that the income and expenditure side is unrealistic, that the IMF and the Fiscal Council have also pointed out, that the IMF practically, their mission has gone away, I would say, in some ways, as the minister said yesterday, because some basic principles on which the budget system rests and the rational spending of money are not respected. They'll be back when the green branches, in the spring. It'll be late, because the credits they have are cheaper than any credit you'll be able to borrow on the world market. What is certainly important, when it comes to denying the constitutional rights of the AP Vojvodina, which Mr Dinkic spoke of yesterday, is the fact that by accepting the DSS amendment, he provided one sanction for the AP Vojvodina, which, I would say, was unseen and I spoke of it yesterday, I will not mention it. However, I must say that the situation with the bank's situation and with certain interventions in the banking sector was similar in 2002. At the time, they had to be saved and the banks in Serbia helped. Under the circumstances, they were mostly based in Belgrade, and at that time they invested huge funds, which were billions of euros, for the resolution of these banks. At the time, there was no question of what funds these funds were made of for the resolution of banks. So the citizens of the AP Vojvodina area also participated. When these banks were renovated, then they sold some other banks based in Vojvodina, which were the most competitive throughout the period. Those funds went where? To the budget of the Republic of Serbia. There was no question at the time that a guarantee was needed, nor did the citizens of Vojvodina object to it. You put that theme into this assembly. You have divided the citizens into the citizens of Vojvodina and the citizens of Serbia. That's not what this is about. It's about denying basic constitutional rights, using, I would say, fixed figures, saying that you respect the Constitution and that you give more money, which is not true. You have heard this more than once from representatives of the province administration and from representatives of the parliamentary groups who have read the law and who have tried to compare the figures that were sometimes incomparable, for the reason that you have practically introduced new clauses into the budget to this day. I will no longer report on the lack of constitutional law, on the issue of inequality, on the introduction of political tensions. You brought them in. So, not the one who seeks his rights, but the one who slows down his rights, it also creates political tensions. I think it would be good for you to accept these amendments, to adopt a law amending the Law on the Budgetary System, which was proposed by the AP Vojvodina and to sit down to talk about how this would be transferred to a field that corresponds to the current economic and political situation in Serbia, rather than creating new tensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5857	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5858	This address of yours is the best evidence of incompetence. Please report for your word as often as possible. What you said shows that you don't even know what country you live in. In 2002, what billion euros were invested in the recovery of the banking system? Are you Serbian? That may have happened in the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary. We're the only country known for that...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5859	Minister Dinkic, please don't address the MP directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5860	I'm talking about the speech. I'm not talking about the man. So we're the only country that didn't give the dinars to rehabilitate the failed state banks, but we only had the cost of liquidating some 100 million German marks back then. If we had to resuscitate the banks then, we should have invested the four billion euros then, 30% of the GDP then. The situation you're talking about hasn't happened in Serbia in minutes. If you base your amendments on such exact data, it says it all. I enjoy your discussions. They are the best evidence of the incompetence of your amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5861	Mr. Radoslav Milovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5862	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you, the chairman, have injured Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of this Rules of Procedure shall apply to other participants in the session of the National Assembly. As regards Article 112, – if the President of the National Assembly cannot hold the session regularly, he will set a break until the order is established. The minister has repeatedly insulted the MPs here. Who's competent, who's not, who's professional and who's not, should answer some other state-owned institutions, colleges or other educational institutions, not the minister. This reminds me of the time Louis XIV - I'etat c'est moi, state, it's me. It won't, it can't, it'll be like I say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5863	Mr. Milovanovic, I don't know how you concluded that there is no order in the National Assembly. There's a constructive discussion going on here. If you noticed, I warned Mr Dinkic the moment he spoke directly to the MP. You have no right to a replica. If you want another member of the Rules of Procedure, I will give you my word, or if you want to make a statement in the day of voting about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Radoslav Milovanovic, from town: Yes. All right. In the day of the vote, we will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5864	I really don't want to raise my voice, because I really like it when Minister Dinkic answers the word, because his words speak best, and the voters will best evaluate it. Until now, of course, he has served everything and everything, most often speaking falsely, which he has said today, and I will not compromise with his attitudes. Maybe I didn't express myself correctly, I didn't mean to say 2002, I wanted to say it since 2002. In the end, you have been in all governments since 2000, so all possible times since the introduction of a multi-parliamentary system in Serbia, because you have always been a minister. The fact is, the funds for the bank's recovery have been spent. It's not true they haven't been spent, they've been spent on huge funds, they've been spent on various banks. You know how you organized the National Savings Bank and other banks, it was all done in your direction. After all, you have not fulfilled all the promises you made – not 1,000 euros of actions, not employment, not other promises, so that your actions and words speak of your successes so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5865	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5866	Never until a few years ago has a penny been spent in Serbia to resuscitate banks, i.e. since 2000. That's what I'm responsible for. Check the stats and see. For the first time, intervention was made in the case of "New Agrobank", "Vojvodine Development Bank", "The Business Bank of Belgrade" through bond emissions. Before that, no money was spent until this time of year until a few years ago. Those bank recoverys just didn't exist. When you speak, criticize, but tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5867	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5868	Thank you. Unlike some colleagues, I was patient. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have not yet received the answer – is it true that amendments to the Parliament of the Republic of Vojvodina, the Government of Vojvodina and the Assembly of Vojvodina and the officials of the AP Vojvodina asked for subsidies in agriculture to be reduced by 30%, or by 12 billion dinars. It translates about 110m euros, translated into the distribution of these funds, as so far, to duchy farmers, to call them, would have dropped 10 billion. In order for the minister not to work on the figures, amendment number one for the subsidy to agriculture, the AP Vojvodina asked for the amount of subsidies to be reduced to 29 billion instead of 41 billion. In the economy, they asked it to fall from 18 billion to four billion. The amendment here discusses details of how to remove these subsidies, meaning, from the Agricultural Payments Service and other parts of the Ministry of Agriculture, they asked farmers, farmers in Serbia to get 12 billion less, and thus farmers in Vojvodina would get 10 billion less. Next thing I know, it was not appropriate to say that my explanation of the amendment was ridiculous. In a rather humorous way, I tried to clarify the amendment that was funny. It wasn't funny my presentation, it was a funny amendment, because it couldn't be determined if it was adopted, if the Serbian Parliament adopted it, it wasn't envisaged how we would control a portion of the excise revenue achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. So that's why I asked - is it a control of production, is it a control of sales, and is it a control of consumption, or by smoking? It's not my fault that someone suggested an amendment, Malten, that someone was going after Vojvodina and counting peers, to determine how much excise duty was collected. So, it could be that I was in a rather humorous way explaining an amendment that, to say the least, was inconclusive, someone would, since they said my explanation was funny, someone would say – and funny. Also, as a man who lives in Vojvodina and who stood up for the AP Vojvodina, and when all these concubines didn't do it, I don't include LSV, their attitude and their program was long known, maybe even more than autonomy, that's their problem, all these others in the 1990s, in a certain way, had quite different programs regarding the Vojvodina. As a man living in Vojvodina, I claim that this budget and all this work we've been doing for days is not against the citizens and the citizens of Vojvodina. I simply think that someone here thinks that money that doesn't come through the leadership of the Duke and the parties they represent, if that money doesn't come to the citizens that way, then it's not money, even though it's meant for the citizens and the citizens of Vojvodina. Here is one party of the former regime, which has now been formed as a confederate, from the state they have made the party a party, now they have arranged the party as a confederal, as Pajtic and Djilas agree, and now the state would arrange how Pajtic and Djilas will agree. It simply won't be possible, and if there was any damage to the Vojvodine Development Bank, I suggest – and Veljovic is doing his job, we would not have a theme like this at all. Long ago, we would have gotten rid of these alleged political opponents, those advocates who now, at the cost of Serbia's collapse, want to defend some of their own personal authority in Vojvodina. So if he was doing his job, we wouldn't have this problem. If we have a problem with the Vojvodine Development Bank, I suggest we pay for this problem, that Pajtic payes Gilas with money, because he, brother, has billions and we'll make up for everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5869	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5870	How about these arguments? In the previous presentation, when it came to the confederal arrangement of the party and the state, I was afraid for a moment that Mr. Risticevic might have talked about your party, Mr. Dinkic. Let's try to get this discussion back to some normal political level. The argument that you have given, which speaks of how income can be collected and how expenditures can be spent and where the whole idea of the state and the whole idea of the budget can be explored. All that we are discussing here these days, the whole idea of the budget is that, in all of Serbia's territory, by methodology, by the proportion of which we agree here as political representatives of Serbian citizens, you collect certain revenue for the budget and also, according to our agreement, by the laws we have, we spend on the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's a completely pointless argument you've made when it comes to excises. Then any budget spending, and all that's spending from the budget is income from another side of the budget, unauthorized, unfair, as you said. We can do that on whatever case you want us to prove it. Some people in this country love basketball, some don't like basketball. Some cheer for Partizan, some cheer for the Red Star, some cheer for the Kragujevac Workers. It's not necessarily related to the part of the country they live in. However, revenues are being collected in this country or Belgrade Airport is working in Belgrade, the citizens of all Serbia travel there, some revenue is being made, some profit, and then you decide that, for example, the public company Belgrade Airport will be sponsoring the Kragujevac basketball club, which I have no objection to, but according to this logic that you have made, it is illegal, illegal, unfair, etc. When you decide to grant subsidies for jobs or the arrival of investors, you do, however, make a political decision that does not have to be controversial, which can also be legitimate, in which parts of Serbia, in which Serbian city you will give such a subsidy, or help investment. That's how some sort of redistribution is done. Everything in the budget is redistribution. You have collected taxes from all Serbian citizens, from spending on all Serbia's territory and then invested some of that money in some of the cities in Serbia, as a rule for those in which your party stands well, but that is less important in this debate. From the point of view of your argument, any of this spending is illegal. When you decided last year to change the Law on the financing of local self-government, you also decided, since your argument was that it was not good, that it was not effective, that it was not politically justified that money was given to the administrations that would be spent, so who did you give 400m euros from the budget last year, this year, next year? You gave them to local administrations. And that's when you knew, and now you know that they were inefficiently expending them. I don't know how the money was spent by the Vojvodina administration, so let those who should be doing it do it, but it's pretty obvious that some local self-government in Serbia spent money. These days you are also proposing other regulations that, in some ways, the budget should do, should solve the problems that these local self-governments, municipalities, have made by spending the money you gave them taking from all Serbian citizens in previous budgets and spending the money they did not have, so they cannot now serve the debts that have been incurred, mainly in the election campaign. Drama is always artificial, it's never natural. Natural drama is, God forbid, catastrophes, poems, floods, thunders. I hope that never happens to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5871	Mr. Djuric, let me ask you, should I take this time away from your time as an authorised representative? Yeah. ) Ljuban Panić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5872	I'm advertising a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. You chair have an obligation to treat all of us equally here. In previous talks, MPs were recently mentioned by Mr Jovica Djukic in a negative context. Insulting expressions are used for political party leaders. You don't interrupt it while you take away the word from the DS MPs at the very beginning of their address. Please be above those political states that this assembly wants to make a reality show and put the same rules in place for everyone here, or let us know so we can maybe start some humanitarian SMS action, because it's obvious here that the minister is smiling at him very funny, and what we're saying is very useless for what he's doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5873	Thank you. I don't know if you were there all the time in the assembly room, but I am really trying to treat the MPs the same way as the members of the government who are in the O.R. The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5874	Dear colleagues, I closely followed the discussion of the RS budget and my impression, I did not plan to report, I left it to my colleagues from the province, who after this discussion I acquired, and for someone who was not referred simply could conclude that today the AP Vojvodina budget is being discussed and that this is actually a assembly debate of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. What was I gonna say? A part of the political party colleagues obviously need to present themselves here as an authentic representative of the citizens of Vojvodina, to represent interests. I understand that. I understand both the frustration and the desire that arises, but here today it is necessary to talk about facts. I'll repeat those facts one more time if we've heard them more than once. The budget of the AP Vojvodina is higher than the previous year by 15 billion. Count it by whatever methodology you want, but it's 70.5 billion dinars, which are meant for the needs of the AP Vojvodina, whatever you take as a base, that's the 7%. That's the least of the problems. This is obviously about a problem that is far beyond. This is about the late mind of many who have discussed, as if until yesterday they weren't in power in the Republic, as if they weren't in a position to complain about all the documents for all these years, to pass a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina that we all agreed was necessary for this debate, and also for the future of the province itself. We had an opportunity to hear during the debate that there was no water in many municipalities in Vojvodina, that there were unedited schools, and yet on the other hand, that the Regional Government boasted of extraordinary results. Even if these amendments were accepted, here is a simple question for all of us – that all the money required to define the AP Vojvodina is simply not knowing what they would do with it, because there are actually no such powers that would be met with that money. Another problem is that, over the previous years, great money has been spent on missed projects, many of which have been unfinished until today, which we have had the opportunity to hear from our colleagues, which the administration has accumulated, which is what this Fund for Capital Investments was spending money on, which has never reported to anyone or to this assembly. It's not just an AP Duke's remark. It is also an objection to the republican government which has not found appropriate that the powers it has entrusted and controlled and verified. So, it's a higher level of power when you hand over jurisdiction to control you and to control you. I think it'll be fixed in the next period. Whenever the topic is money, sharing money is always a problem. People say when misery enters the door, love comes out the window. It is clear to me that this discussion, which I expected to be of much more quality, is more comprehensive, because here we are discussing the RS budget, brings us one quality to try to try this budget, which I claim may be the most complex, fundamental budget that has been made over the last few years, given not only the text of the budget and the items in it, but the whole set of accompanying laws that give it the key quality, that this discussion contributes to even better solutions. It all came down to whether the AP Vojvodina has 7% or less. I think it's the key thing to discuss -- how we're going to spend this limited budget in the most efficient way, how we're going to control money flows. Should anyone in Serbia today ask themselves why five billion dinars from the republican cash register went to the rescue of Vojvodina Development Bank? Is that what anyone asked the citizens of Serbia about? Does anyone today realize that the finance minister and this government are also trying to help the AP Vojvodina and the rest of Serbia in one way? If someone's in favour of regionalization, decentralisation, it's the URS. If someone did something concrete in that field in terms of funding local self-government, then it's the URS. All municipalities in Serbia, including municipalities in the AP Vojvodina territory, received more money in their budgets. The second question is whether this money is effectively and adequately spent. There are assumptions, all local self-governments in their budgets already second seems to me a year, or third in a row have between 25 and 70% higher budgets. It is the merit of first of all the URS. All those who say this creates problems in the budget are wrong, because today we are adopting a budget that has a deficit of only 3.6%. It's possible as you can see. We've heard all sorts of arguments, stories that have been told for years back and about the National Savings Officer, about a thousand euros in action... (President: Mr. Ilichu, come back to the topic. I'm sorry. I'll be back on the subject. I mean, this debate should focus on the debate on the RS budget. I think there has been a lot of talk that both the citizens of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina have figured out what this is about, that in fact one part of our colleagues and political parties want to present themselves here as an authentic representative of the citizens of Vojvodina, as if the others do not exist. We heard here and different opinions, and I believe that no one, no one or any of the other colleagues I didn't mention here, discussed against the interests of both Vojvodina and Serbia, but with a desire to make a quality budget. But I cannot agree and accept the replacement of the thesis that we have heard here that someone in this budget wants in any way to deprive the people of Vojvodina or the budget of the province of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5875	Thank you. Mrs. Kulungjia, the Rules of Procedure? Let's just give Mr. Radoman a word, since he's the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5876	Today, the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2013 budget is being discussed, but the law also defines the province's budget. I can understand you repeating incorrect information that the province's budget will be 70 billion. This isn't just about the amount of that budget, the volume of the budget. It's about the quality of the funds. We were talking about transfer funds. To try to explain once again what's going on, let's assume that you have a debt to me, and also to Minister Dinkic, then give the money to Minister Dinkic and say – transfer them to Zoran and then say that you settled all your debts. That's not true. All you've done is settle your debt to me, and he'll lose his money. That's not true, though, but in this case it is. What would happen if we got these funds? I'm sure they'd know how to use them. Surely in that case there wouldn't be so many villages without water, no sewers and no other basic living conditions. Surely then, the Vojvodina would not find itself in this government's regulation as an underdeveloped area. Believe that the people of Vojvodina through the assembly, through the budget, could and know very usefully use these funds for the benefit of all the citizens of Vojvodina, who are part of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5877	Thank you. The word has a Mr. Ilic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5878	It's all great what you said, but what we've all noticed here is why you haven't said it in the past four years. Who defended the previous government from passing the financing law. You have heard here that the AP Vojvodina budget and the Serbian budget have been working on exactly the same methodology for 10 years. We haven't had a chance to hear these comments and remarks like this. What's that late? What's changed? It's a key problem. Your demands are completely legitimate and I'd ask for more money for my fireman and everyone here would drag for their end and that's not the problem. The problem is, where did you get that late wit? Why didn't you say that all these years ago? We didn't get a chance to hear that with the exception of a few political parties who, even then, commented on a methodology related to the Vojvodina budget. You didn't do it, you didn't do it personally, or your political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5879	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5880	Dear People's MPs, it is obvious that the amendments of the AP Vojvodina here have been used by the government's representatives for political antagonision between the Republic and the Vojvodina. I find that extremely wrong and dangerous. At the same time, the argument that this is a subsequent mind, I don't think it can stand. So, even if it is an ex-post mind, I think those who represent the government here should consider the arguments, whether it's a subsequent mind or not. We remember that every year the same request from the province came and that we always had the same problem with the Vojvodina budget and we looked for ways to solve this problem within the limits of possibilities. So that's not an ex-post mind, that's the argument we listen to year after year. What I say here is that every argument arises, although it has been said that we have heard all sorts of arguments, devises every story, attempt and effort to defend these amendments is the fact that Minister Dinkic says that by refusing this amendment and explaining why he refused to respect the opinion of the famous international economic expert, Marijan Risticevic. I think that's why we no longer have the argument to fight for the adoption of these amendments, because if the argument by Marijan Risticevic is enough to reject this amendment, I don't think we can remember any stronger arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5881	Thank you. The word is Snezana Stojanović Plassic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5882	I've really had enough of this discussion... (President: Rule of Procedure? ) Member of the Rules of Procedure 107. - violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. I really don't think it's right for MPs, who have been called to the Rules of Procedure for two days and are constantly calling you and all of us to preserve the dignity of the Assembly, to make offensive remarks at the expense of the MPs. I'm not a representative of Mr. Risticevic. I believe that he often does not properly express himself in the congregation, but he cannot give it to anyone else to say that he is in a funny way expressing himself. Let's all stick to the same arguments. I think one key word was said in the previous discussion, and that's within the limits of opportunity. That's what we're talking about here. The constitution guarantees everyone the right to work. Can hundreds of thousands of people who can't work today be called to the Constitution? They can call. What we're talking about is that there are possibilities within the possibility, as the colleague said. That's what this is about. The possibilities were never less because this year the bankruptcy of the state was avoided. So, let's all be solid, like I said, in Firevac, in Leskovec, in Nis. About the fireman, Leskovec and Nis, these days as we talk about the budget, we haven't heard anything. I truly respect the autonomy of the Vojvodina. I respect the freedom and right of all to fight for their end, but we must take care of the entire state of Serbia. I think it's a little enough for the citizens of Serbia that when we talk about the Republic of Serbia's budget, I've been silent for days, here's two or three days, for days we've only talked about Vojvodina. Vojvodina is not the only topic in Serbia. There are a lot of difficult topics in Serbia and let's open these topics as well. It is the budget that determines how we will live in the coming years and it is consolidated so that we can survive next year. Please let's all think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5883	Thank you. I appreciate that each of the MPs has the right to express their political will as they wish. I ask that we treat each other with respect, so that we can all be dignified together. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5884	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm using that right, since I've been mentioned. I'm mentioned in a tone that's supposed to mean some kind of negative connotation. I'm a farmer, a Serb, there's nothing to be ashamed of. I admit I have a little problem here. When certain MPs say I almost need an interpreter. I speak the language of the people, which doesn't mean that my way of speaking is offensive. I'm trying to be understood by my target group that I came from. My target group is farmers, including workers, peasants, honest people, men who patch the patch, people whom the former regime party is very happy to tour in the election campaign. So often in these election campaigns, they jump into stables, pigs and chickens, I'm worried about the mental health of our cattle. Because cattle are afraid of unknown people, and the farmers I'm talking to now know very well. If we're good for campaign tours, I think we deserve to have one representative in this House. That's me, given the circumstances. The SNS has found some interest in joining their coalition and the People's Peasants' Party. I was worried that I was not worthy enough, since I was mentioned by a party of the former regime, which I am saying is the product of Mr. Veljovic's unhappiness. So I was worried about my quality, but since they started attacking me like this, I began to realize that I was worth something in this people after all. I don't want to go down to that level, say in such a way as to say that one from reality. Here, and for that farm, I'm proud to feed the animals there, which I showed I could milk the cow, feed the cattle. So, taking care of animals, I've shown I can take care of people.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5885	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic, it's past your time for replication. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Ilic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5886	I totally understand when someone comes down from power and goes into opposition, it's not that easy, but it also reminded me of something that I think is educational for all of us. During one education I had a chance to see a billboard from a political campaign, I think Argentina or Brazil. The billboard said that it is common for power and diapers, which are mostly changed for the same reason. I think it's educational for both the government and the opposition, that some people need to understand why they're where they are, and these others understand what they're supposed to fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5887	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5888	I hope I don't have to say why the previous exposure was offensive. What is offensive is that in this way we are addressed by a representative of that political party who, from the election cycle, has fewer votes and more authorities in this country. We, unlike you, regardless of the electoral defeat, know that electoral defeat we accept, our mistakes to locate and change. You'll never change one thing, you'll go under the census, and you'll look for a way to stay in power. With 5% of the vote, you took all the money in this country. Not only the money, you have trampled your own dignity because you have gone beyond the words spoken of by your coalition partners. Don't, please, just you do DS in the way you do, with those billboards and those diapers.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5889	The word is a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5890	Madam Chairman, I refer to Article 104 which clearly defines the conditions under which a replica can be given. Mr Ilic had no basis for the Rules of Procedure to give him the right to a replica, nor did I mention him, nor did I take offense to his MP group or his MPs. So, on no basis did he have the right to get a word in the replica. Please have the same criteria for MPs, with all the understanding of your need to be much more gracious towards the parliamentary majority and the government. All MPs here are equal before you. So Mr. Ilic didn't have any basis for getting the right to a replica, because I didn't mention him. If he stands up to defend the minister, the minister is here and, in his past experience, not only to defend himself well, but to attack even when no one touches him.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5891	Mr. Ilic was given the right to a replica because I was under the impression that he appeared because of the misread exposure. In the part of your presentation, you mentioned something Mr. Ilic spoke of. On that basis, I gave him the right to a replica. Here you go, Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5892	I refer to Article 103, which clearly defines the conditions under which an MP is given the word when the Rules of Procedure is advertised. So if the MP is called because he is misread, then he must explain that he is called and asked for the right to reply because he is misread, rather than acting as though he were entitled to replication based on what someone had said earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5893	Mrs. Kolundjia, I have a duty to remind you of Article 104(1). Rules of Procedure. I will read it, in order to make it clear to all – if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is offended by the MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation refers shall have the right to replication. In your presentation, you mentioned one part relating to the presentation of the previous speaker. On that basis, I gave Mr. Ilic my word. Here you go, Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5894	Madam Chairman, I call on Article 27 and Article 103, explaining Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5895	You called a member of 103 earlier, so we won't do it again, but we're going to article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5896	I also refer to article 27 because you are obliged to take care of work and order in the session of the National Assembly. So, if the MP is invited to Article 104. – the right to a replica, he had the right to speak only about the part of the exposure he felt was misread and to explain what he was actually thinking, and it was misread. He used the right to reply to accuse the other political party, to accuse other MPs, not explaining what was wrongly interpreted in his presentation and who misread his exposure. So that there may be no confusion, and that we would not always expect from you, and in the future, that you may assume what the People's Messenger was going to say, I ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure and ask the People's Messengers to explain what part of their exposure is and who misread it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5897	I would ask all MPs to behave like this and to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If you wish to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please make your statement. You don't want to? Okay, thank you. Mr. Ilic, I won't give you the right to a replica now because you haven't mentioned it. This was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you have no right to replication. The word of the Messenger of the people is Srdjan Shin, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5898	I guess I don't know the Rules of Procedure enough and I can't find the basis, so I expect someone to explain it to me or you, the chairman... (President: What member did you contact? ) I am talking about Article 107. So, on what basis can one MP report four times in a row and talk about certain things? I realized from this Rules of Procedure that he could come forward once, so for the second time, he asked us to make a statement whether the Rules of Procedure had been hurt in the day of the vote. On what basis he can get four words, I really don't know. I'm just gonna take this time. In this situation, I would really, with great respect, like to address Mr. Secretary of the province and... (President: I cannot allow you. I'm not finished. We're done, I can't give you my word. You can only say if you want us to plead in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) You can do this another time, I haven’t answered again, and it hasn’t expired for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5899	Mr. Shain, you've come forward following the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you can't ask Mr. Secretary a question. When your amendment comes, you can. Please don't cause me any trouble. Thank you. To explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure by Mr. Shane. I gave my word to Mrs. Kolundji because she appeared several times based on the injuries of various members of the Rules of Procedure. So she had the right to do it, and that's what I did. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7, paragraphs 16, 21 and 24, with corrections, was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Shin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5900	Thank you. I would just like to say what good things the adoption of this amendment brings, and in particular I have convinced myself after a two-day stay in Brussels and after talks with the highest representatives of the European Commission and the European Parliament, that this new approach that the government has accepted by accepting this amendment, that the issue of the integration of the socially-hazarded groups, particularly the issue of Roma integration, is being resolved through one inter-sectoral work, and this creates a condition that different ministries are now participating in the realisation of the Roma integration process. What is particularly welcomed is the fact that I talked to the minister about, that Serbia is one of the quality new ways in which it solves the question of the most socially vulnerable groups, in that it will not simply build apartments and give them to someone who is not able to pay for electricity tomorrow, nor to pay for utility or low rent, as people who have received social housing are being kicked out in Zemun today, but one idea that through the process of hiring these people and the process of building really social housing, with the support of international financial organisations, on particularly favourable terms, these people in the long term pay off their housing units and thus contribute to the country from which they come from. This amendment will create conditions that already in 2013 Serbia is getting, not to say a dozen times, but a dozen times more funds from certain funds, because it was estimated to be the right way to use, and I would have ended it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5901	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 16 and 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 16 and 23 of the amendment, MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of spending have not accepted the amendment in the basic text. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The government and the committee responsible have not declared themselves correcting the amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 7 of Sections 16, 23, 29 and 51 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of spending have adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 16 and 24 of the amendment, the MP was submitted by Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of spending have adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5902	I am asked by Professor Stojkovic to report for his amendment and to convey to Minister Dinkic the gratitude of Mr Stojkovic that this amendment has been accepted. I would like to say that the Law on Higher Education, prescribed jobs and the tasks of this commission and that the Commission's membership in the European network of accreditation agencies is under way, Stojkovic felt it was necessary for this amendment to be adopted. So it's a good thing this amendment was adopted. I will use this time to pass on this time to the Republic Government, given that the problem of science is to convey more than 700 professors who signed a petition to the Ministry of Science and to Mr. Obradovic for problems in our society, problems in science. Professors indicate that there is an abuse of writing in a Bosnian magazine that is being abused by our so-called Scientists, i.e. a professor who, through a wild magazine in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is not registered, who is semi-private, where professors, where doctors i.e. Scientists pay 700 to 800 euros to publish their work without any review. After that, they continue to advance in the profession with some false works. I personally support this initiative, Professor. Belgrade, Nisko and Kragujeva University, and I ask the Ministry of Science to pay a little more attention to this initiative. At the end of the day, all I'm going to say is that I'm saying that the Republic government has a little more money in science, given that science is somewhere in the beginning of the investment of this republican government. I can tell you that our institutions, medical schools, not only medical schools, but also electronics are other universities in a very poor state, and it takes a much greater concern for this country so that young, some of our colleagues, young generations are properly educated and educated. What Serbia definitely needs is a reform of the education system, a reform of our science. To throw a lot more aspects into practical work because now in Serbia the process of education of young people is quite applied so that only they have to learn something, and when they learn, I as a medical professor can tell you, when they get out of medical school they have good averages, they have good knowledge. Ali. when that knowledge is to be applied if they meet a citizen who has had a heart attack -- a myocardial heart attack on the street, a stroke on the street they can't apply their knowledge. So we're pushing for a reform of the education system that would give a special accent to people who are at universities, who are in colleges, and I'm finishing this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5903	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 16 and 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 16 and 27 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Gorica Mojovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5904	Thank you. I submitted an amendment proposing that an additional 500 million be provided to the Ministry of Culture and Information, for the economic classification 4.2.4. So it's about programs and projects, about culture, about the very essence of culture. I warned in the debate in the principle that this dramatic reduction in the culture budget has particularly affected this very economic classification and that compared to the previous five, six years, this position has been reduced by more than 50%. I also suggested that funds for these purposes, i.e. for the culture and information of security from Section 16 – the Ministry of Finance and Economy, and from the economic classification of 6.2.1., and in the light of the reasons, that I had seen budget rebalances, i.e. amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act in 2012 set up three billion 964 million, and for 2013, I would suggest 8 billion and 800, and that I believe that there is room for one part of the funds to be directed towards culture. In my explanation for why this amendment is being denied, I'm risking that maybe the minister and I will be declared incompetent and point to my intricacies as well. But I demand that my next question be answered correctly. How can it be explained that what it says in the rebalancing position 6.2.1.3 billion 964 applies only to the entire annual budget, but only to the period from the moment of rebalancing? This is why this amendment is rejected, and in essence for 6.2.1. for the purchase of domestic financial assets, 8 billion 762 million are foreseen in 2012 and that it was in the Ministry of Economy. I know it was at the Ministry of Economy, it was transferred to the Ministry of Finance, find me exactly where the four billion difference between 4 billion and 798 lies? Where it says that in 2012 it was actually 8 billion and 700 for these purposes. One more thing, my amendment is said to be rejected because, from position 6.2.1, if part of the funds is transferred to culture, the business of the users of those programmes will be compromised. So there's no 500 million for culture, and then the government's amendment to the same position removes a billion dinars. Now how's that? If it is necessary to transfer for culture 500 million, it will endanger these purposes to 6.2.1. And when the government itself takes down a billion, it won't endanger it? I demand an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5905	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5906	I have a very positive opinion about you. I'll never say anything like that, no matter what you say about me. Let me explain to you what you were talking about. So there's no mystic, it's a 8 billion-dollar figure in 2012 and in 2013 where the only difference is now that the ministry is now called the Ministry of Business and Finance, and earlier it was called a different economy, and in particular the finance and we've collected only the figures that were spent until the new ministry was formed and added the figures of the new ministry and we've given you the answer that we've given you. I agree with you that for a culture of funds never enough and that it is necessary to significantly increase investment in culture in the coming period, because this represents one of the most important social areas. However, this is a difficult year when we have to stop the growth of public debt, stop interest growth and in this sense we have kept the nominally same culture budget as in previous, as we have done with all other divisions, while in the economy we have reduced by 8 billion dinars, in some expenditure positions. That's an explanation, and you don't have to assume that I'm going to characterize you in some way that you don't deserve, all the praise for your work.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5907	The word has Gorica Mojovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5908	Mr. Minister, regardless of these commendations, you haven't answered my question. So, I still think, I say, make me understand if I am wrong to amend and supplement the Budget Law, and that in them, I am talking about rebalancing, as I think I know it, there must be all the money of one budget, all the money of the Republic of Serbia, that it is also an annual plan, regardless of what was brought in September. I know very well, position 621 was in the Ministry of Economy, in that basic budget for these purposes there were five billion and something. So, 621 there was no Ministry of Finance. In my view, it is logical to transfer powers from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Finance and Industry, position 621 has been transferred and money has been transferred. If not, answer me a very specific question. You claim that eight billion and 762,000 were foreseen for this in 2012, and where does it say so? I've only seen three billion and 965. Just confirm to me that I wouldn't have lived in error if I hadn't read the budget rebalance correctly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5909	Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5910	Here it is, the official loudspeaker. 93 budget rebalancing published, page 163. The authorities that have stopped working on page 163 among other things in paragraph 621 – the purchase of domestic financial assets and you have a four-billion figure and 797 million and 133.363 dinars at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and that is when you add up with this figure that you say you get eight billion. This is where it all looks good on you. It had to be separated so in the budget rebalancing due to the completion of the accounts, as the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development ceased to exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5911	Mrs Mojovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5912	I apologize, I forgot the second part of my question, as it is possible when with 621 it is proposed to focus 500 million on culture, and in this amendment it arrived before the government's amendment, then it says in an explanation that it will compromise function 621, and then the government itself, by its amendment to this same economic classification, 621, removes a billion dinars. There's some logic that doesn't make any sense to me, just before 621 funds are transferred to 451, to subsidies, to economics, within the same ministry, and it doesn't endanger these purposes of position 621.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5913	Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5914	For that part of the remark you're right and I'll rebuke my associates as carefully as they can not write their answers to the amendments in this part.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5915	Mr. Markovic, on what grounds are you answering? (Predrag Markovic, from the post: By amendment. You have no right, your parliamentary group no longer has time for discussion. The word has a national emissary, Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5916	I don't know if I'm going to have the same discussion as he intended to say Mr. Markovic, former Culture Minister, but I want to support the amendment of Parliament, Gorica Mojovic, because I know it's symbolic and there won't be enough votes in the voting day to really make this change and to provide funds for one of the most significant items in culture, which is cultural creation. It seems to me that in the same text, the amendment also submitted MP Sinisa Kovacevic, with him asking for 500 million more in his amendment than that of Gorica Mojovic, and that only says that he does not enter that economic sphere, whether or not it was possible to allocate these funds from the economic classification that Parliament of Gorica Mojovic here said. It is obvious that it was the will of the Serbian government, it would be possible, rather than more importantly, in these two amendments that follow, but as an independent MP, I cannot report twice, which is a big and important topic launched, and these are extremely small amounts allocated to the culture in the budget that we are about to vote on for 2013. So the government has rejected both of these amendments and has some reasons. I'm sorry, only when it was debated in principle, there was not a culture minister, because there was a lot of talk that the ministers all accepted that this budget be extremely thriftful and it seems that the culture resistor had put up with the greatest burden there. I want to draw attention, it's okay that the budget in these economic circumstances is extremely small, but to European standards, and we seek these European standards, that for creativity, the most important part of the culture budget is about 2.4% of the total budget. If we are not going to compare this far with some large developed countries, then certainly with countries in the region, where Montenegro's predecessors, which sets out 2.6 of the total budget for cultural creation, without talking about the infrastructure part, Macedonia also does not list further countries in the region that are slightly closer to us in the economic situation. If the reasons are that we should always single out for some investment in the economy, as it says in rough words here, I am not an economist, I am a lawyer, but we say that for the purpose of these funds from which no additional resources can be allocated for the cultural portfolio, it is said – is allocated to craftsmanship for businesses in the privatisation process that improve economic activities. As an illustration, I will state the sentence of the first woman minister in Greece, she was the culture minister, Mrs. Melina Mercury, who said that culture is actually a difficult industry in Greece and I think we can compare Serbia to Greece in those times, because only two factories work with us. One factory is certainly a sport and in larger investments in sport we have already shown some results, and the other factory that works for us regardless of what little we invest in it is certainly a culture. Let me draw your attention to something else, which is that the two cities have applied for it, they are taking part in obtaining the prestigious title of the European capital of culture, which is Belgrade and Novi Sad. With such funds, as foreseen in this 2013 budget, nothing can be done in an infrastructure work that is very important and no projects can be completed for projects in creation, which is also cinematography, painting, music creation, investment in the culture of national minorities, as well as persons with disabilities, and this covers all this economic classification for culture creation. These two cities can't do anything in that big game. Thank you. The People's MP Sinisa Kovacevic submitted amendments to section 7 of the amendments. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Siniša Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5917	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, in two minutes only a lamentation can stand, most kindly I ask you to help make what you have for a reason a "division of the poor" in a time of crisis like this, not turn someone into being poor and poor, because the difference, believe me, is a word between poverty and misery. We'll all be, and I believe you, in a situation where somewhere in the region, as modern as it is now said, about a place once called Yugoslavia, you're talking to your fellow ministers, to people from their governments, and to the question of how specific it is in your country for cultural policy, you'll tell Mr. Ministers six past. It's on the level of scandal. And you're a man, too, and I appeal to your presence in that cultural matrix of this country. You're a relative or absolutely successful composer, it belongs to a single pop culture pattern, in which this crisis doesn't feel so much, but if we don't get that kind of, I'd say, sympathies, then I just don't know where we're going to get it. You know, life on top of fingers is a bloody life. It's life in bloody shoes. Do you know what a philharmist's day looks like? He's getting up to practice, he's going to practice, he's coming back from rehearsal to practice, he's going to play and he's coming home to dream about practicing. The circulations of our books are 300 copies of our superior poets. It's simple, I urge you to help. I'm sorry there's no Minister of Culture here. Have you been following anyone for a wedding these days? Our daughters, dear friends, are dressed as strippers at prom. Our sons are dressed as bodyguards at these same proms. Five words are used in the vocabulary, most often "top", "brother", "extret," and what was the fifth? (President: Time. Let me. So this is about an appeal for help. I'm finishing up Madam Chairman. Most kindly, I'm asking you to give me another 10 seconds. There, Mr. Minister, where there is no 2.4% of the national budget in culture, politics is thought to be reduced to the level of the incident, that there is no cultural policy, that culture is the level of the incident. And finally, if you refuse this amendment because of one written error, most kindly please remove it from those 300,000 pages that will be translated into southern Serbia, and of course, I do not think I should say that I should not give people the right to study in native languages. Thank you, Madam Chairman, for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5918	Thank you. National MP Donka Banovic submitted the amendments to Section 7th and 28th. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5919	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. My friend, Mr Kovacevic, thinks that culture went bad with 0.6 from the budget, and I will inform you that environmental protection has gone even worse, because to protect the environment in Serbia, without which there is nothing, so if we destroy the environment, then there is nothing, there is no culture, no economy, no education defined 0.4. So, for two spills less than for culture. In these two minutes, I don't have time to say enough about how much the environment in Serbia is threatened, but I want to make this amendment and the explanation an illustration of how many of these budgets are, how non-transparent they are, and how much we don't really know what's underneath what item is, I won't say hiding. For what I have suggested is that of the Ministry of Finance, an economic classification that is 481, where it says - donations to NGOs, 20 million dinars have been identified. With my amendment, I have proposed that these funds be rerouted to protect the environment. You know what kind of answer I got? I just felt a little uncomfortable because I felt like some terrible criminal, who's now putting his hands in his pocket, where it's not appropriate. You replied to me that these funds were intended to support youth entrepreneurship programmes in schools, education for entrepreneurship in the formal system of education, women's entrepreneurship and social entrepreneurship, I don't see it. Where does this proposal say to hide such programs under that item? If I had seen it, it wouldn't have occurred to me, so when I read your explanation, I really felt uncomfortable, that I suggest that the funds for women's entrepreneurship be abolished, etc., but this is an illustration, as far as we don't really see from these budgets. This item says that these donations to NGOs are not really visible that these funds are defined for these programmes. In the future, I would ask that our proposals for the budget be a little clearer as to what some funds are defined for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5920	Thank you. On Article 7th, 20 amendments were submitted by National MP Branko Karavidic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5921	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Prime Minister and the Honorable counterparts, I intended only this amendment to reduce by 200,000 000 from Article 7 of Section 20, which includes the Ministry of Transport and the economic classification of 451, which in fact refers in part to the public road company, the sum of 5,400,000, which is reduced by 200,000 000, which, by its amendment and proposes to focus on the construction of the state road map of the first order of Pozarec – Kučevo – Majdanpek and the borders with Bulgaria. I found the basis or support for this amendment in the prime minister's exposé. He, among other things, says, quotes: "To make Serbia progress faster, all parts of Serbia need to have equal chances. "Then he says, "We will pay particular attention to the reduction of regional differences, in order to achieve even regional development. We will form special teams for the economic development of the undeveloped and strategically important parts of the Republic of Serbia. "The prime minister then says that some parts of Serbia are devastated, that they must liven up, get infrastructure, economy, jobs and become places where people will return. Of course, in his exposé, he says the government of the Republic of Serbia will make an effort to develop traffic infrastructure. Of course, except for the exposé, where I found the basis for this amendment, I found it in the spatial plan, so I will only briefly quote the part that says – In a demographically empty Serbia, the strategy of defining traffic corridors, it must take into account the interests of balanced and sustainable development, as well as the importance of the accessibility of certain regional continents. As for the regional accessibility of the entire eastern Serbia, it is classified in a spatial plan as an area far below the average compared to other regions of the Republic of Serbia. The comparisons work, Borski, Zaječar County, in an analysis that determines the degree of regional accessibility, carry the lowest score – seven, together with Mačvanski, of course, while the North-Bački County is assessed by assessment – 15, Pomoravski – 14, Nisavski – 12, etc. I needed to show... (President: Mrs. Karavidic, just to tell you, you have now exhausted your time of two minutes as an amendment promoter, and the time of the parliamentary group has been exhausted, so finish. ) I appeal to the minister to accept this amendment, only in one part of the reasoning I would refer to, where he says that as far as eastern Serbia is concerned, the development of a spatial road map for Bolec – Zajecar – Vrška Čuka. However, I think it is necessary to do so in 2014 and to separate the funds for drawing up the planning documentation for this route. So, Požerevac – Kučevo – Majdanpek and the Bulgarian border.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5922	Word Has Minister Dinkic
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5923	I agree with you that this is an important direction, given that I went that way myself, and I saw what it looked like. The dog is completely cut off. It is important that it be made and tied to Majdanpek and to the Bulgarian border. I will insist with the Ministry of Transport that within the budgets they have received, the allocation of funds for the planning documentation. I saw that it was in the spatial plan, so next year the planning documentation could be done so that the construction could begin in 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5924	The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic, by the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5925	I'm very sorry I didn't have time from the parliamentary group, but I thank the minister. That's exactly what I was gonna say. If it is the intention of the state to allocate funds for drawing up planning documents for the next year, it is necessary for the government to show seriousness. If we are planning to build in 2014, it is necessary to allocate funds in 2013 to develop the planning documentation for this route.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5926	On Article 7th, 20 amendments were submitted by MP Miroljub Stojcic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Miroljub Stojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5927	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, MPs, regardless of what I asked Minister Ilic last night and I received an answer, I consider it necessary to repeat that I have submitted this amendment for one reason. It is to define the funds under the planned five billion and 400 million funds, aimed at Serbia's roads and to provide for a billion-dollar share of the starting highway from the border with the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia to the village of Levosoja, located in the municipality of Bujanovac. I must repeat that the beginning of the construction of this section is related to 1997 and that some works have begun during that period. Something continued to work between 2000 and 2008, that the works on the stock were intensified in 2008 and that there was even a solemn opening of a section of the highway where Prime Minister Cvetkovic was present, the prime minister of the past government. However, the fact is that this section of the highway is not finished until today and that the most dangerous part of the highway in Corridor is 10. The responsibility for the completion of this section of the highway is in some triangle between the ministry, Corridor 10 and the Public Enterprise Roads of Serbia. I was given an explanation concerning my amendment, where it is said that it is not accepted for the reason that the grant funds for the Public Enterprise The Ways of Serbia are being deployed by the government's act on the schedule and use of subsidies. The government's act should regulate the purpose of these funds as well as the dynamics of their use, an integral part of the business programme of the Public Enterprise Roads of Serbia for 2003. Minister, I will also address the Public Enterprise Management Board of the Ways of Serbia, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia to define the completion of this section of the highway by a subsequent act, because it is indeed inappropriate that the only share of the highway in Corridor 10 should not be completed during this period.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5928	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 7th Sections 20 and 25 of the amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudić. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 16 and 21 of the amendment, MP Djordje Milicevic submitted. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment in the basic text, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The government and the committee responsible have not declared themselves correcting the amendments. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5929	I would like to thank the Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. During a recent debate, someone said a finding that was completely justified. It is legitimate for every MP to fight for the interests of his district, to fight for the interests of the municipality or the city from which he comes. I have just done so with the proposed amendment and subsequent amendment. During the debate in principle, we made it very clear that this draft budget law for 2013 reflects the need to reduce the budget deficit, which is a decisive, important and courageous move. To encourage development through investments, through capital and structural projects, through a double agrarian budget, and that is absolutely justified and to preserve the elements of social justice, more funds for social protection amounting to seven million dinars are intended and this is also justified and has our support. So, as far as the SPS Parliament Club is concerned, rational behaviour, household spending, but also the restrictive nature of some of the basic characteristics of the 2013 draft budget law. The 2013 draft budget law makes it clear that the government of the Republic of Serbia's commitment to save the sea during the economic crisis should be a priority. We fully support this and agree with the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What I want to add is that there are things that can't be saved. It cannot be and must not be spared to address life's essential issues that are important to the citizens of Serbia in a concrete amendment are the citizens of the Kolubar district. As early as 1998, the Kolubar district hit a devastating earthquake. Fourteen years after that earthquake, the complete recovery and recovery was not completed. That's disastrous. As the draft draft bill for the 2013 budget, this reconstruction and recovery will not be continued in 2013, but as far as we could see it will not be completed. So far, reconstruction and rehabilitation of houses and facilities that were torn down in the 1998 earthquake in the Colubar County area has gone through the Department for Reconstruction and Development and Rehabilitation of Objects in the Colubar County territory. The Directorate was an indirect beneficiary of the budget and was an integral part of the then ministry of planning, urban building and environmental protection. In an analogy, today's Directorate should be an integral part of the Department of Construction. However, there are no such positions within the construction ministry. During the debate of previous years on the budget, speaking of the restoration and rehabilitation of houses and facilities that have been destroyed in the Colubar district territory, I have repeatedly said that the government and the parliamentary majority in Serbia are variable and that is democracy, but that the relationship to essential issues that are of vital importance should not and should not be variable. A fundamental accident cannot be the responsibility of only the current government of the Republic of Serbia in which the mandate took place. It is the responsibility of each of the next governments until the full recovery and restoration of what has been destroyed by this elemental disaster. This is where nature took something away from someone. Believe me, these citizens, let's take, for example, myonic villages absolutely don't care who's in power, they're only interested in one question - whether they're finally getting and whether they're finally going to be rescheduled objects where they could live and whether they're going to have their own facility. What I want to say, and before that, I will point out that I will use time intended for the head of the parliamentary club, in the period from 1998 to this day, just through the Directorate for Reconstruction and Rehabilitation and Development of the Colubary County, it has been rehabilitated about 4.288 objects, that funds, i.e. material for the rehabilitation of 10,000 objects, that many facilities have been made out of social, public, municipal importance, 90 schools, 30 cultural objects, three local self-government buildings in Mionica and Ljigo, Lajkovac, ten churches, municipalities in six municipalities, collective housing facilities, ten health facilities, several hundred kilometers of roads, etc. So, if we draw the line, at the end of 2012, percent looking at it, 70% of what's been restored and 70% of what's been destroyed has been completed. There's still 30% left. In the past period, bearing in mind the fact that from year to year, smaller and smaller funds, the directorate, who was responsible and through which the reconstruction and recovery went, made up a list of priorities. The basic component and parameter of making up that list of priorities was just a social component. So through this draft budget law, the government said it would represent the interests of social justice. I don't see, by analogy, that this is the wrong attitude done at the level of the Colubary County. I would like to say what priorities they were – damage to the residential facility in which they are kept, the number of members of households living in a damaged facility, their age structure, the income of all household members achieved in the previous year, the health status of some household members that affect the creation and achievement of better living conditions and persons and households on the record of the Centre for Social Labour. In line with these criteria, 1,032 buildings remain on the territory of the Kolubar district. What I also want to say is that savings during the economic crisis need to be and must be a priority. Save yourself where there is. It can't be saved where there isn't. In this context, we fully support the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to rationalising the state apparatus, when it comes to rationalising the state administration. It is too massive and we agree that there are many agencies, that there are many directives that have no purpose, the essence of existence, but, regardless of whether there will be a Directorate for Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of the Kolubar County, that is not an essential issue. The key question is whether the reconstruction and rehabilitation of buildings and houses, which were destroyed in the Colubar County's territory in the 1998 earthquake, will continue during the following year and be completed in some future time period. There are many other ways, if there is determination, for this restoration to continue. Let's say, through local self-government, it's one way, through municipal and city directorates, as it was done in 1998, when there was an earthquake and a period of time until a regional directorate was formed for reconstruction and development. This is an important question for the citizens of the Colubary County. This is no one's individual attitude, nor the interest of a political option. This is the general interest of the citizens of the Colubary County. It is in addition to this finding that the presidents of five municipalities from the Kolubar district and the Mayor of Valjev, together with the head of the district, addressed the government of the Republic of Serbia, where, among other things, it is said that, given the fact that the process of rebuilding and constructing earthquake-damaged buildings has not yet been completed. It is indisputable interest of all local self-government in the Kolubar district to complete the recovery procedure in accordance with adopted directorate programmes. Of course, if the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to shut down the Department for the Construction and Development of the Kolubara District, we insist that the prescribed procedure establishes the obligation to complete the process of resuscitating and constructing damaged objects, while providing the necessary financial resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as that funds for financing those works be transferred to local self-government. The letter, addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia, was answered by a resolute construction ministry, which says it is fully in line with the fact that the process of rebuilding damaged objects must be terminated, and in this respect also the talks so far on the legal status of the Directorate, the ministry's position is represented. They also suggest a way to continue rebuilding and rehabilitating houses and facilities that were destroyed in the Kolubar district's territory in the 1998 earthquake. However, this position is unfortunately not represented in the 2013 Budget Law. The government also showed this draft budget law for the following year during yesterday, by adopting one amendment, clarity and determination when it comes to restoration and recovery in the realm of the Kings. We fully support it and it is fully justified, but we also hope that such determination will be clear when it comes to the Colubary County. During yesterday's debate, Minister, among other things, I think it was the amendment that I mentioned when it came to the King, that the essence of the amendment that was submitted earlier was adopted by an amendment adopted during yesterday at a session of the Finance Committee. I filed one amendment, after that correction. I would like the Kolubar County to get support for the essence, and the point is that reconstruction and recovery will be continued and that, in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it will finally be completed in a dynamic that would correspond to the economic opportunities of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5930	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considered the amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5931	Thank you. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly I must express my regret, since when the draft budget law for 2013, we were able to see in paragraph 2, that from the government's representative, Goran Knezevic, would be from the Minister of Agriculture, but well. Since Mr. Mladjan Dinkic is here, he may also give me answers to some questions. What we've been looking for with the amendment that we've submitted is that from the position intended for the Agrarian Payments Authority in function 420 economic classification 451 of the planned amount of over 25 billion dinars, 450 million dinars are transferred to the Veterinary Administration. I just have to point out that if I run out of time, I'm gonna use my MPs' time. In the reasoning given by the Government, she said that this amendment does not accept, and the reasons to be called upon is the reduction of the amount of subsidies from the Agrarian Payments Administration, so that this proposed amount we have intended to transfer to the Veterinary Administration, to prevent the implementation of the programme and the measures to encourage the development of agricultural production, to reduce agricultural production and to reduce exports, most importantly, etc. We believe that, by not accepting such an amendment, it will result in much more serious consequences, resulting in a reduction in exports, in fact to what the Government in an explanation for which it rejects this amendment and calls. Why are we looking for an extra 450 million Veterans Authority? What I'm going to say is not data that represents some kind of secret, but it's official data from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Water Management and each of them can come and every veterinary station can come to them, because in Serbia we have about 950,000 cattle, about three million and two hundred thousand pigs, about one million and three hundred thousand sheep, 120 thousand goats and about 20 million pieces of livestock. Vaccination and diagnostics of infectious diseases have been performed over all these throats by the field service. This is the information from the Department of Veterinary Affairs. In order to re-protect this stock, I must say the impoverished livestock fund of Serbia, therefore, in order to do both the vaccination and the diagnostics, the Veterinary Administration is just missing the funds we've been asking for. When the price of vaccination and diagnostics is calculated, and when multiplied by the number that I've given, so by the number of these throats, then it's noticeable that the funds we're looking for are missing. I would also like to point out why it is important to prevent the animal owners, which is usually our peasants, for free, and based on the Law on Veteran and State Programme measures, which just means vaccination and diagnostics. It is important for the following reasons – because many animal diseases, such as brucellosis, tuberculosis, rabies, can be transmitted to humans if the animals suffer from these diseases. Secondly, because there are infectious diseases in the countries around us, I must say, and the infectious disease as such does not know the limits. For these reasons, they can also be transferred to our country. If the animal is not healthy and if it is not protected, if there is no confirmation of field service, or from veterinarians, then it is very clear that there is no traffic, no slaughter, no production from animals. What matters most is that there is no export. This is exactly what the government is calling for in its argument that it does not accept the amendment, and this amendment should have been accepted on the contrary. When there is no export, of course there is a threat to the security of the entire country. If there is no preventive protection, and an infectious disease occurs, experts on this topic say that 12 times more expensive is the control of infectious diseases and killing animals than their prevention. The logical consequence of this will be the reduction of the stock fund, which is small anyway. Some infections, such as, say, classical plague in animals, rabies, I must say, they are not treated. Animals are killed because of these diseases, animals cannot be treated, and this is a professional postulate known in a veterinary dictionary or in a dictionary of peasants as so-called so-called peasants. Stenting out. In Serbia, there are two scientific institutes located in Novi Sad and Belgrade, as well as 10 specialist institutes, which employ 223 veterinarians. There are 10 public stations, field stations, which number 35 veterinarians and 319 private cells with 1,274 veterinarians, meaning about 1,500 veterinarians of about 4,200, as many as there are in Serbia, keep the system of infections under control while it can be held. If he can't hold on, then I don't know what to say. These funds, which I asked for, are not intended for salaries, far from that, nor will the aim of the amendment be directed at such a thing, but these funds are paid exclusively for the following items: to prevent pig vaccination, to prevent diagnostics, e.g. for the extraction of animal blood, for the purchase of vaccines, for the purchase of diagnostics, for the purchase of needles, for the purchase of test tubes and all other consumables. With the prevention and protection of animals, we get everyone, both the state and us and our peasants, who should be the most important to us. Logically, by the occurrence of the infection, we lose everyone, both the state and we as a people and what's most obstacles, our peasants lose. It's a big risk if we don't protect the farmer's cattle, and there's almost no risk of paying the peasant, say, one hectare of farmland. This prevention and this protection diagnostic is, in fact, direct assistance to the peasants for the preservation and protection of Serbia's livestock fund. Besides, health, and above all preventively protected animals, are a condition for reproduction. I must say, only a healthy animal can reproduce, not a sick animal. How serious the situation is and why the funds we are looking for for for the Administration of Veterans in the amount we have stated with the amendment are needed, it also says that since August of the month, although the programme has been done, the field veterinary service has not received any of the funds for the programme, which says that the Administration of the Veterans is missing the funds that I propose and threaten to put the service at rest due to the non-payment of the funds it owns, i.e. to stop with his work, which would mean he would stop worrying and protect animals. I have to look back on the incident and the danger that happened in Kragujevac, where there is one veterinary station, under suspicion that it has done something that may be considered illegal, or it is illegal, and I will not go into it, and that will be dealt with by the competent authorities that should deal with it, should not cast a shadow on a huge number of those who, therefore, both farmers and veterinarians and field veterinary services perform both professionally, in quality and on time. Irregularity should be sanctioned, but also, on the other hand, what has been done in quality... (President: You've spent your time with your MPs, just to let you know. Finish your sentence. I'm done. But the same thing that is well done should be commended. This job of prevention and diagnostics cannot and must not be done half and selectively. Some animals can't be protected and some can't, somewhere they do diagnostics, somewhere they don't, because it's not professional, it's not legal, it's not justified, if it's not protected, I note, the entire stock fund of our country, which is small anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5932	Thank you. Mr. Chiquirizu, on what basis are you answering? (Mirko Chikiriz, from the post: After the amendment.) You have no right. The parliamentary group has no time left. According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5933	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd love to support this, but I can't for two reasons. The first reason is because it is taken from one item. These are subsidies for agricultural production, therefore, for what farmers are already getting, which is calculated at 25 billion 886 million. That amount has been taken from 500 million and should be transferred to the wind. I wish this amendment had been taken from another item, from foreign policy, with anything, then I would have voted for this amendment very gladly, to transfer that 500 million or 450 million to the wind. With all due respect, ma'am or miss Batic, but you didn't balance well. You've taken 500 million from the subsidies, and you've allocated 450 million dinars to the wind, so it's technically impossible to bring this amendment into line with revenue and expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5934	The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5935	I thank Mr. Rističević. He seems to be the greatest gentleman here. It always gives me the opportunity to replicate and to have extra time. Thanks for that. Also, I think you should read another amendment. Everything's technically consistent. What the Government did not give or did not approve of it and gave a negative opinion on it, but this amendment passed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, so you will see that everything is well-accompanied. Read it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5936	Thank you. On page 7, the 23rd Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5937	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers, is hereby scheduled to remove 204 million from the position of the service under contract and to transfer to farming subsidies. Contracting services are usually an item used for covert expenses, for hiring their party colleagues, for certain jobs and for certain things to be done, which are not foreseen in the budget. Donka Banovic already spoke of it before me. It's some means to limit, because as soon as something's hidden and it won't show up in the budget, it's something that's not necessary and it needs to be hidden. What we need in this case is to transfer 204 million to livestock subsidies, which is one of the most prospective branches of agriculture and one of the most neglected branches and agricultural activity in Serbia. The stock fund has been reduced for years and as a agricultural country, we import meat instead of exporting it, which is also the market. It is especially necessary to meet the implementation of the SAA, as of 1 January 2014, when imports of milk and all other products will be allowed, without any control, without any safeguard provisions for our agriculture and for our farmers and in which, as a state, we must at this time provide subsidies, in order for our agriculture to welcome this liberalisation that awaits us with full application of the SAA. In this way, the funds that will allow us to be dependent not on import milk, on import meat, but on our farmer and our agriculture being able to be competitive with foreign producers and on foreign companies that will come to our market by applying the SAA. We expect this government to show its readiness that some of the funds that have been identified and in the explanation of the extremely unmistakably defined, define for some useful thing, for subsidies in agriculture, livestock farming, so that our farmer will welcome the liberalisation that awaits us with this unfortunate application of the SAA as of 1 January 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5938	On Article 7 of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Soul of Morchev. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5939	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, I will rely on my colleague, Dejan Mihajlov, as I also request this amendment to increase subsidies in agriculture or, more specifically, for livestock farming. I believe that 456 million-dollar funds are too large to be allocated to labs, and that is, for laboratories to determine the quality of milk, because we won't have any quality of milk to determine if we don't have cattle. The stock fund decreases every year, as my colleague said, people this year have another problem, which is that this year was dry and that they do not have the means to feed cattle. I would ask you to reconsider and increase subsidies and help, and not only livestock, but agriculture in general, because it is extremely important for our economy, and our farmers really have a lot of problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5940	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5941	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as someone who produced over a million pounds of cattle last year, which feeds on human food, as someone who participated in agriculture, as a worker who produced over 200,000 tractors, I hope that I am qualified enough to talk about this amendment and that there will be no party to the more regime with impoliteness to talk about my ability. I would very much support this amendment because it is an increase in subsidies that farmers will receive per hectare and milk premium, so that, on the other hand, they are not taken from the part intended for milk laboratories. So I'm going to stay in the dilemma about the support on this amendment -- do we need more labs to examine the quality of raw milk, or do we need more subsidies to increase? The amendment increases subsidies and the promoter has found as much space as he has found and they do not increase significantly, but in general, we are awaiting commitments under the transitional agreement that we have signed in 2014. We are expected to have obligations that customs duties on imported food products will fall and therefore our agriculture will find itself in a very difficult position. The premiums and subsidies should be increased. This budget has increased them, but I would like them to be far bigger, to be as they are in EU countries. Just to remind, in neighbouring Croatia, they amount to almost 400 euros per hectare, that in Slovenia they cross the sum of 453 euros per hectare, and that in EU countries these premiums are much more than in Croatia. Apart from these premiums and subsidies paid by the state, I would like them to be introduced and to be increased subsidies for rural development, so as to support agricultural production in the village. Also, through the protection of the environment, according to EU principles, agricultural production is being touched in the area where agricultural producers tend, in production, to protect the environment. There is a broad range of support for agriculture and rural development in the EU, and I would love it, given that there is a desire for the ruling coalition to join the EU, unless it falls apart before we enter it, but certainly we should fight for the values that the EU offers, especially in agricultural production, to make these subsidies and premiums as close as possible to EU countries, because farmers do not predominate, but rather, consumers and processors – consumers to be secure in good supply, that at a cheaper price they can get food supplies, and the processing industry, through premiums and subsidies in basic agricultural production, will be sure to have this raw material at far lower and more favourable prices due to the level of premiums and subsidies. So, it will raise their competitiveness and we will create conditions that in agriculture, which is our largest factory under the clear sky, through the development of the food industry, we will also enable the employment of workers. In doing so, we should make sure that this food industry rises as close as possible to the place of agricultural production, so that in the coming period we can create favourable opportunities for reverse migration. So, that part of the population that has some homeland, which lives without a job, is returned to the country because of premiums and subsidies, and that is how demographically we help the development of this country and regionally deploy the population, that we do not have the ends of our country where almost no one lives, and in four thousand and some villages, almost a quarter of the village threatens absolute extinction. I agree with this amendment, but in the future, we need to make sure that as much money as possible is obtained, not only for agriculture, but also for the processing industry and to get jobs for both the father in the field and the son in the processing industry. I think it's a path that can get this country out of the crisis and, in the end, there was a speech in the previous amendment that the amendment could not be accepted, the government said, because it's making a register of agricultural production, a register of curvature. I absolutely support that register being established, and when the register is established, then we will see that the subsidies in the former regime were not received by farmers, but were obtained by cobayage farmers, those who expressed their desire to deal with agriculture for one year, until they realised great premiums and subsidies on the vineyard. It is millions of dollars that former agriculture ministers have, and I mean Dragin and Milosavljevic, divided the quasi vineyards, and that the vineyard does not exist at all, nor has it ever existed on that land. It's just that a subsidy was raised and she didn't come into the pockets of peasants, she came into the pockets of the manipulators supported by the former regime, which, not only had they spent the budget, but I'd say they spent the entire state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5942	Replica, though I don't see the basics, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5943	I want to thank my colleague Mariana for supporting this amendment and I will try to convince him to support it when we vote, and that is, I don't know if you've seen carefully, these are not entirely lab funds but are shrinking. I think 500 million dinars are too much for labs. To use the language of the people, there is no house built from the roof, but from the foundation. So, let's step up the stock fund, and then we have more milk and then we have more labs, and now we do some labs less, and first we work on having more cattle, that is. A cow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5944	Replica, Marijan Risticevic. Please, just re-apply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5945	In part, I agree with the promoter that these funds are too small. I understood the meaning of what the promoter was saying and I am getting closer to voting for this amendment, given that we export corn for 500m euros annually. There are those in the former regime who are proud of it. I wouldn't exactly brag about that. I wouldn't brag about the amount of soy, soy grizzly, soy buckshot, or sunflower shotgun. I'd be proud to have that cattle feed used on our country's territory. I'd like to encourage livestock farming in a far greater amount than the proposer would like to say with this amendment. If we export 500m euros of corn, it means that we lose 500m euros through the lack of livestock. So, every kilogram of corn, that's what cattlemen know, through meat production and by increasing the stock fund to increase by each euro is getting another euro for meat production. I would like this amendment to be accepted in some way. I would like to take more care of livestock in the future, so 500m euros in corn exports would be exported to Europe and Russia from one billion. On each kilogram of corn, each euro on exports of corn and livestock, we lose another euro through the lack of production in livestock. I'm getting closer to supporting this amendment. When subsidising jobs in various factories, I would like it to be done in terms of processing industry and agriculture, and that every family returning from the city to the country gets two thousand euros in continuity, to get those 10,000 euros from various investors who raise some new jobs. In this way, they would unload the cities and revive the villages. If a future 2014 budget finds funds to subsidize families who want to return to their homeland and deal with agricultural production, in this case I would propose to the Ministry of Finance in the 2014 budget to predict that such families receive 10,000 euros per five years, each year 2,000 euros on condition that they deal with agricultural production in the country. So we would develop livestock and fruit growing and contribute to our social product from agriculture being twice as big as it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5946	Replica. People's MP, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5947	Mr. Risticevic misunderstood me that I have something against having the vineyard register established. I fully agree with that, and we need to see where these huge subsidies for vineyarding went. What was our goal was that, at this point in time, it was more important for us to provide a subsidy for livestock farming so that our farmers, farmers, would welcome the liberalisation that awaits us with the application of the SAA which is completely inadequate and which is not for this moment where we are. When the SAA was negotiated were completely different circumstances and Serbia was in a completely different economic situation and condition and strength than it is now. This application from 1 January 2014, the SAA, will greatly deprive our economy. Serbia will become a country where milk producers will not be competitive with German and Dutch producers who have huge subsidies from their countries and we will be a country like Bulgaria and Greece that imports raw milk from the Netherlands and Germany, and we will only be milk processors. Our farmers, our farmers will be those whose milk, price and quality will not be competitive milk that will be cheaper and that will come from these countries. It has been noted that foreign milk processing companies are buying dairy in a hasty way across Serbia. There are "Kampina", "Medli" and other producers waiting for liberalisation on 1 January 2014 so that they can import their milk produced in the Netherlands and Germany to produce here and to completely make our milk producers, which our milk processors can re-supply with the subsidies they receive from their countries. That's how the state and our farmers will lose. Therefore, we felt that it was much better to leave the vineyard for a smaller amount to be defined for it, and that the larger funds, based on this basis, were designated as a subsidy for livestock production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5948	Mr. Risticevic, there's no basis for replication, because you're essentially getting along. The word is by MP Nenad Popovic. Time is available for five minutes as an authorised president.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5949	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, in livestock, the situation is indeed more than difficult. There are practically no cattle in Serbia today. They slaughtered all the cattle because cattle are too expensive. No one has any interest in saving cattle today. Just to give the information that we have four times less cattle this year than we did 20 years ago. I have a chance to carry nine thousand tons of june. In 2011, 1500 tonnes were exported. This year it will be even less and my forecast is that in 2013, we will not perform a single ton of June, but that we will be a clean net importer. That's why agriculture has to be one of the priorities, especially livestock. In agriculture, it is employed directly and indirectly close to a million RS citizens. That is why the real state, especially the government, must make a great effort in the coming years to improve the situation and so that our farmers can compete with EU farmers who are multiplely subsidized. We cannot look at agriculture apart from the entire economy, that is, politics. The key problem today in Serbia's agriculture is this SAA signed four years ago. Serbia has lost directly every year in the last four years because of this European route, the government is about 200m euros a year, directly, but indirect losses are much higher. That's thousands and thousands of closed small and medium-sized enterprises. These are tens of thousands of people who have lost their jobs. Today, 40% of non-tariff agricultural products are imported into Serbia, and from 1 January 2014, imports of all agricultural products will be defacto liberalised. If we consider that subsidies in Croatia and Hungary are three times and sometimes up to 8 times higher in farmers in these countries, that the loans they take are at least two to three times lower, or have lower interest than our farmers, then we can see how much trouble it is that our agriculture cannot compete on our market in relation to import products that will enter Serbia without customs from 1 January 2014. Customs policy has always been in history, hundreds of years, a way of protecting its domestic production and protecting its jobs. This RS government has twice. One's lighter, the other's braver. This would be easier to discuss as soon as possible and to launch all negotiations with the EU because there is a member in the SAA 41 that allows if the domestic economy or part of the economy, in this case agriculture, to be really threatened with the moratorium being applied to the SAA. That way we can help our farmers in the next, say, five years. Another, much better way, is to break up the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because this allows our agriculture and the entire economy to develop as other economies have developed until they have strengthened and had the opportunity to compete with other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5950	Thank you. The word is a national letter from Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5951	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the amendment tabled by the People's Parliament of the Soul of Morchev, which proposes a reduction of funds intended to obtain laboratory and medical equipment in part of the agriculture budget. I believe that this proposal should not be accepted for the reason that it is intended for the most part to be proposed for the acquisition of equipment to complete the establishment of a laboratory for the control of the quality of raw milk. So the process of forming this laboratory began in 2009 by making a decision by the competent ministry. This laboratory is scheduled to be located at the Faculty of Agriculture, the Department of cattle farming, in Novi Sad. So far, part of the equipment has been obtained, and the 2013 budget provides for missing funds to complete the process of forming this laboratory. The work of independent laboratories to control the quality of agricultural products has also been established. This is important because this is a condition for improving agricultural production. In fact, we want to base our agricultural development on the results of the latest scientific research in this area. That's why we need both modern and well equipped laboratories. This is important because only by laboratory testing of quality can relevant data be obtained to determine the real and objective price of a agricultural product, milk, meat, eggs and the like. This is also important because the results of quality testing by independent laboratories give us documents on the basis of which we can provide exports to the foreign market. With all that I have said, it should be pointed out that Serbia today is the only country in the region where no independent laboratory for testing is established, or for the control of the quality of raw milk. Because of all this, I believe that the proposed funds in the agriculture budget are defined for the purchase of laboratory equipment enough to form this laboratory. I propose that we do not question the meaning and justification of the establishment and functioning of independent laboratories for the area of agricultural production. On the other hand, the applicant of the amendment is right when he says the situation in livestock is difficult. It's a really hard situation. We could even say it's extremely difficult. We have all kinds of data about it that we can figure out and see. We heard some of that data today. There is talk of a reduction in the number of all kinds of domestic animals, which is true, but it reduces both production and meat, and milk, and eggs. It also reduces the participation of livestock products in our country's total agricultural production. So, according to some of the data we have, the current participation of cattle farmers in the total agricultural products is less than 50%. We know that the border that determines the development of one country's agriculture is 60%. This means that according to this parameter, we can conclude that our economy is underdeveloped. For example, in agriculturalally developed countries more than two thirds of all agricultural products are products of animal origin. More than 85% of plant products are made through livestock products. It encourages, however, the fact that the government in the 2013 budget has been planning greater redistributions for agriculture. A 4.5% stake planned for next year and an announced 5% increase in 2014, will put Serbia in line with countries with a high share of the agricultural budget in the total national budget. If that were the case, I will illustrate with only a few data on the share of the agricultural budget in the national budgets of some countries in the region and EU countries. For example, in Austria, the share of the agricultural budget was 2.8%, in Hungary 2.66%, in Poland 3.52%, in France 3.47%, in Switzerland 5.8%, in Croatia 4.45%, in Slovenia 5.1%, and in Montenegro 1.4%. These data are clear enough and well enough documenting what I have already said about the level of the proposed agrarian budget. For this step in the direction of support and help our agriculture, the government deserves all the praise. Of course, we at the SPS know that a larger agricultural budget is needed, but not sufficient conditions to ensure that these negative trends are stopped in our country's livestock production, as well as to ensure the growth and development of agricultural production in our country. For this reason, we in the SPS will advocate a future for good solutions, good measures to ensure fair and rational spending of the agricultural budget. We will also encourage the ministry and the national council to establish and propose a medium and long-term strategy for the development of agrarians in Serbia as soon as possible. I will remind you that we have recently received a document relating to the education development strategy in Serbia by 2020. Two days ago, the first public hearing was held on the subject. Since, we will agree, agriculture and education are our largest, most valuable, most significant resources, it would be good to get a strategy for developing agriculture in Serbia soon, even if for the next five to 10 years. We simply believe that this is the right, the right and the only way to ensure that our agricultural production targets are achieved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5952	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary of the Soul of Morchev, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5953	Replica to my colleague, because she was talking about my amendment. Why did we cut these funds, if we're talking about it now and if we're opening a story about the labs? This government continues with the policy of the previous government, which is that former Minister Sasa Dragin, where he is now employed at the Faculty of Agriculture and at the Institute, wanted to form this laboratory for milk testing, although the Faculty of Agriculture was more engaged in cattle farming, cattle development, and there is a laboratory at the Faculty of Technology that deals with milk technology. We think that an existing laboratory at the University of Technology can be improved by these funds that we left with this amendment, not by continuing to open new laboratories because the former minister suggested it at the institute and at the university where he was employed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5954	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, you have received the resignations of MPs Snezana Malović and Oliver Dulic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues concerning the examination of these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation has led to the case referred to in Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of National MPs, which suggests that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office for these MPs. Accordingly, and pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, finds that the mandate ended, before the time to be elected, for MPs Snezana Malovic and Oliver Dulic, on the day of their resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. The National MPs Gordana Comić and Ljuban Panic submitted together to Article 7 of the 24th Amendment. The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5955	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, the essence of the amendment is that the transfers of salaries to primary and secondary schools, i.e. payments for these earnings to primary and secondary school employees, are made out of the Republic's budget, thus burdening the AP Vojvodina budget would not be 66% and that the AP Vojvodina would be able to meet its constitutional obligation to define three weeks of its budget for capital investments. You will allow me, given that this has been discussed a great deal, to explain this amendment through a political context in which the amendment is rejected. That context marked, Mr. Minister, and your treatment of the MPs who spoke of this amendment these days. Very often, the debate on these issues was also funny. You've even accused us of dealing with artificial topics and producing artificial topics, which is interesting if we look at that one of the, I guess, non-artificial topics was a departisan, and we see what happens in public enterprises like Kolubara. I guess regionalisation was also an artificial theme of a former party leader who advocates decentralisation today when he brings in a centralist budget like this. You have only one problem with the AP Vojvodina and its money and jurisdiction, which is that you have not crossed the censorship in the AP Vojvodina. It is the same if you want to talk about artificial topics and what is happening, and it has to do with politics when it comes to this budget, it is that you were the first from a ruling coalition that is in one natural, not artificial way, even though you did not cross the censorship in the town of Novi Sad, you announced a change of government in that city. Nothing good will do you any good to reduce the money for the jurisdiction of those province institutions chosen on the basis of the majority will of citizens by municipalities in Vojvodina. So from my Vrsac, a small town, an MP at the Vojvodina Assembly who received votes of 5% of your score. So with this budget... (Chairman: Please watch your time.) I'm sorry, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5956	I let you go half a minute more. Thank you. On Article 7 of the 25th Amendment, MP Mira Petrovic submitted. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the legal system. The word has a National MP, Mira Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5957	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd really like some attention. The amendment I submitted on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group, which Mr Milan Krkobiæ announced when we had a debate in principle, refers to pregnant women who have problems in their pregnancy, namely women who have to maintain pregnancy, who are punished by the Social Protection Act and are paid 65% of their earnings. I must admit that I am very surprised that the government has not accepted this amendment, because this is something we have been talking about for the past few years. Since 2008, 100% of the earnings of all women who maintain pregnancy have been paid in Belgrade. As far as I know, that's what Novi Sad is doing, and I think the Zrenjanin is doing, and possibly, I think, and Jagodina. All other women in Serbia are therefore discriminated against. I have every right to talk about this because I'm the mother of three girls and I've had to maintain every pregnancy. At the time I gave birth to children, I had a 100% profit. I also looked a little bit at when it happened, or when women's right to make full money was abolished. Of course, I came to the conclusion that it was January 1, 2006, and you, Mr. Minister, were then Minister of Finance, and Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic was Minister of Health. The reason he was listed for the introduction of such a punishment was that there were a lot of abuses. If we start talking about abuses, I don't think we'll get far. It is estimated that, for example, Serbia needs 3.5 billion now, which is the maximum, which is 35m euros. Yesterday we were here listening to stories about a billion and 800 million dollars guarantee for this, 100 million is given to the bank for that, and I totally agree that we need it, but I don't understand what we're going to do with "Fiat." I agree, colleagues, with you that all Serbia needs sports halls, but not for me for recreation, we need them for children. We're dying out. We talk about Natalie all the time, but when we don't do something, then we have a problem because we have to do an analysis, we have to make a strategy, we have to do a social map, etc. We'll always find a thousand reasons why we won't do it. Compared to all the money we have in different positions, I really don't think 35 million is a problem. I've even seen the position to take it off from, but let's start with that, if you're talking about abuses, you know for yourself how much abuse there is in sports. No one ever said, no, we're not giving football clubs money. There's no question of what's going on. I really think the government made a mistake. The explanation that this is not in line with the legal regulations, so we knew it at the beginning, we also have a saved memo to the Ministry of Health, which was prepared by the minister for the work of social policy. We know that there is a need to amend Article 74 of the Law, but we wanted this way, to provide this amendment with the means, and in the meantime, to change that member of the law later on. What does change mean to us if we don't have the money and we don't plan it with our budget? On the other hand, remember that the initiative started in 2010 in the city of Belgrade. I don't know if there's one in Serbia, but before New Year's Eve, double twins, twos, threes, fours, enough, get help from the city. Then we started a story about why women in Serbia would be discriminated against. There are local self-governments who don't have the money for it, so why don't the state help? They were all deaf back then. We had a press conference in the hall of the court, but no party responded and supported us. This summer in July and August, look at the press, you'll see that all the newspapers were full of support for all the presidents of the party currently in parliament. No one came out and said – this is unnecessary, we stay in it, and our attitude is that women should not be given. If all of us in July and August, when the media followed us, had the support for this, how is it possible that we didn't have in the government now? There were four ministers sitting here yesterday, and I was in a dilemma about asking them. I don't know if it's discrimination against women and whether they felt bad, because there's 17 of you in the government, and there's five of them in total. However they vote, they will be outvoted. I just didn't want to put them in a position, because I guess the moment they had to vote for a decision, to make the decision unanimous, they felt bad, so there was no need for me to remind them again here. My children need to have children a little more, I mean, you all have children and mothers and sisters. I want my children to be proud of me. I want to restore women to dignity. The other day, you were filming the hall and filming who was sitting here. I was counting yesterday and I'm going to tell you that there are at least one fifteen times in this House during the day, and relatively many more women participate in this House's work. Yesterday we were either ego or there were more men than we were. The ratio was 80 to 100, unlike the official one-third. So when it's about working we're here, when we're supposed to be housewives, we're here, when we have to have kids, we're here, but when we need a little help with it, then you remember that we need to give it to Partizan and the Star. I don't mind football. Indeed, I grew up with my brother, and sport is very important to me in life. My kids used to play sports. I agree that culture needs a lot of money, too. Without it, there's nothing, there's no ecologicals, but without children, we have nothing. What's worth all this to us, we'll be extinct. That's why I think and expect an answer from you ministers. Why didn't this go away at the government? Which is your explanation, because there are so many resources that could compromise the budget in any way. On the other hand, we have a vote here, so we'll see who votes. I'm really going to pay very serious attention to how anyone votes. We have so many NGOs, we have these women's networks, every party has a women's forum, give the ladies a look on Saturday as they vote. Let's not be declarative about it – if we wanted support, we wanted natality, we made a birth strategy. That's not gonna happen. Let's do what's practical, what's concrete. We've really done it in the city, we've done a lot of work and we're trying to work as a PUPS and at the level of the Republic we're trying to get what's good, what's good, what we've done there, here. We've been doing some help for the pensioners, but let's do some help for the women, and we'll throw ourselves into another category. I'll support you whenever it takes for the sports hall, Mrs Mojovic for culture whenever she needs me, I'm in the Odor with you, but let's really do something. That's why I'm talking to women who are watching, which is why I'm talking to women here in parliament. Let's show them we can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5958	The word first comes from Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5959	Your initiative is absolutely good and I'm sure they share all the parties in this House. My party also advocates the same initiative. That is why the government of the Republic of Serbia has also proposed an amendment to the Health Insurance Act, which provides for the full amount of earnings for all pregnant women but since 1 January 2014. This law will be before you in the Assembly for the simple reason that next year there is no money for it. So three and a half billion dinars aren't small funds. The budget balance would be disrupted, it would have to be removed from other sections and absolutely not a viable proposal in the coming year. If that possibility has not existed for seven years, I think it is very important that the PUPS initiative is accepted, that all parties represented in the Government of the Republic of Serbia are shared, I am confident in the full parliament. But the real possibility for its application will be from 1 January 2014. Especially since the amount of money needed to be allocated has not been correctly identified. So there's no place for any discrimination between men and women. The initiative is also justified through the Health Insurance Act proposed by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, which is scheduled to increase this fee to 100% of the salary from 1 January 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5960	The replica was answered by Mr. Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5961	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as the DSS is concerned, she will support your amendment, we have no problems. But here's the problem we here don't know if you're the position or the power. If you're the government then sit there, if you get a position you'll come here. Since your president voted in favour of this draft budget in parliament, Dad voted in favour of the draft budget in parliament, I see no reason why you do not force Mr. Mladjan Dinkic to accept this amendment. Otherwise, you don't seem to be coming out of power, your president has at the moment 101,000 salaries in the government and 72,000 pensions. It's 173,000 dinars, it takes a month. While the average pension in Serbia is 23,000 dinars. So if you want to have DSS support for this amendment, you'll be safe. However, if you are the authority to force Mr Dinkic to accept your amendment, as far as the DSS is concerned, you have no problem. We'll vote for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5962	Replica, Mira Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5963	I'll answer you right now. First of all, I find it really devastating that you said what you just said - whether I belong here or with you. This time I spoke as a woman and a mother and someone who wanted to help their children. If you mean really like you just said, then there's no need for Parliament to exist. Then gentlemen, let's all go home, the position has a sufficient number of votes, it'll end whatever it takes, we'll go to the polls when they come, whoever wins, keep working alone. If it's really your opinion that we can't influence anything, I don't see why I'd have to think the same thing as Mr. Minister, I just think we're all here together, we're MPs, and it's nice the other day said Mrs. LDP. So, pay tribute to this institution where we are. We have been chosen by the citizens of Serbia to improve their quality of life, and one of these is the amendment I am looking for. I'm not happy with it since 1 January 2014. I just think three and a half billion, that's a maximum estimate, Belgrade is only eight, so it's impossible that Serbia has more than three times, it's impossible because of Belgrade's third of all, it's a sum that certainly can't disrupt the budget. You have an item there, some extras of 28 billion, so make it 25, or don't give a bank 100 million, but give it 97, so you can, you're a doctor for finance. I'm not contesting that at all. So, a little bit of you go through it and you'll be able to take care of it. As for Mr. President of our party, there's a problem here. I don't know if you're aware of anything because you're all normal and smart people here. If someone worked and earned their pension for 40 years, I don't know why you're contesting his right to receive it. He worked full-time, even more than you here because yesterday in Parliament you were all here, only when your representatives were from the government. So, when you know you're being photographed and your party representatives are watching you, then you're all in benches. So, don't challenge Mr. Jovan Krkobibić's right to work every day from 8:00 a.m. to have someone pay him for his work. He earned his pension as much as most PUPS MPs sitting in this bench. People have worked honestly for 40 years, and do not dispute their legal rights. As for what I said, I don't know if we have any real replicas, but the fact is that we could change something at Vote Day and show that just because you don't have to be sitting still, I can have an opinion. I have the time of the party's authorized representative, and I have the time of the parliamentary group. So I think it's very rude of you to throw it at me. I've never thrown anyone in here. So I expect an apology for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5964	After the injury of the Rules of Procedure, Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5965	First, Article 27 of our Rules of Procedure, Mr. General, when someone advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he has the right to have words before the replicas and before other reportings. I don't think you've been malice, so I don't think there's any need to plead in voting day about it. The second thing is, this isn't the first time, I don't get it on purpose, but to warn us that you're going to take a terrible look at how we're going to plead on voter day. I completely agree, and I think we should change the Rules of Procedure and the assembly site should say that anyone will explain themselves, Article 107, you have to let me finish the sentence...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5966	No, I won't let you translate the breach of the Rules of Procedure into a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5967	So, if anyone says we'll take care of how you vote, and we tell you, we'll support your amendment in voting day. Will you support the Budget Law that will not adopt such an important amendment, we will lead and the citizens of Serbia should take care of the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5968	Vladimir Ilic, I apologize, as a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5969	By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5970	You don't have time, you have as an authorised representative. I'm sorry, I have to give the replicas first. Here you go. We now have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5971	Mr. Chairman, the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured here. We're now facing again the subject we thought we discussed the other day, which is to count and record who's sitting here. So we have now heard information that some MPs are counting and filming other MPs whether they are present in the National Assembly. The DSS MPs have been present all the time in the National Assembly, actively participating in the discussion on amendments, submitted a large number of amendments to this bill, I think of all parliamentary groups the largest number of amendments, and we do not allow anyone to now respect that we are only here at occasional moments of debate. Therefore, if you want us to reopen the debate we had last week on the count of parliamentary groups and MPs, then that's another topic. Please show the MPs and colleagues who said they respected the dignity of the National Assembly, not to count us. If there's any footage, let him deliver, let's see exactly who sat in the last 12 hours of yesterday's debate today, and we'll all come forward. I pray for this violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, the National Assembly, to be declared, for this is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5972	I accept that the National Assembly in the day of voting declares the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, first Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5973	I'd like to call Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, because I think several MPs have inappropriately addressed Mrs Miri Petrovic, and I would say that I absolutely support her amendment and that her amendment is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is much stronger than the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and I will read you Article 68. The RS Constitution that says – that everyone has the right to protect their physical and mental health, children, pregnant women, please listen to me [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5974	Please, MP, that I was a general, and now a retired general, neither gives me privilege nor any special rights. Please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. You advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I gave you my word, but you started a replica about the amendment. I agree you have a need, but your time has been spent and I can't let you do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5975	Mrs. Petrovic, I am speaking to you moderately. You don't have a problem with the DSS. The DSS will vote for this amendment and there is no problem. There is one floscule in times of communism - you have a house, you return the apartment. Mr. Krkobic has a pension, and he receives a salary. That's the point, and by law, he can't...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5976	Mr. Pejcic, I beg you and warn you not to call, I think it's forbidden by the Rules of Procedure and you have violated the dignity of the Parliament, so I warn you that next time I will give you the measure if you repeat it. He has the word Mira Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5977	I really think we should talk about the subject, the topic was my amendment, and the topic is whether we should give support to women or not. I'm sorry you've experienced my count as a count of presence. I just wanted to show that women are more responsible in that sense, because the percentage ratio of MPs in the 250 Assembly is about 35% women. In the work of the Assembly every day is about of those present, I do not speak the number, I am not talking about any parliamentary group, but the relationship between women and men is 80:100. So 80% of women are present. I'm just saying that we women are doing the best we can in everything we do, trying to be the MPs we need and the housewives we need, and the mothers and you ask only for support to help us out, to bring our risky pregnancies to an end. Here it was a pleasure to see a couple of pregnant women who were, Joana wasn't my favorite character, we were conflicting over some social things, but it was divine to watch her, healthy and right pregnancy that was carried out to the end, that's the most beautiful thing a woman could have. But if there's no more of that, and I'm telling you that I've been through it myself, give support to women and let them be equal to everyone, nothing more. I just think it's human and I don't speak at all, I am, of course, speaking on behalf of the PUPS, but I'm saying it as one of the women in this Parliament and a member of the women of this country, nothing more. I hope we understand each other now and clear the dilemmas, no offense, no painting, no counting. My watching anyone vote was about the papers and statements all parties gave last summer. I've watched, August, July, this summer, all the parties have given support, and that's why we want to see what it will look like now, and I can't beat anyone to vote for us, and I can sit here and vote for our proposal, as will our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5978	Just to ask Elvira Kovac, do you get the amendment, and Bojan Djuric, by amendment? All right, I know, 'cause then I get transferred by people looking for a replica, and I'm not in the middle of it. In turn, the first amendment has the word Vladimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5979	Of course, no one can dispute a proposal like this or disprove it and it is undeniable, but each of us can make dozens of similar proposals to both the finance minister and the government and make an argument about it and why we shouldn't double the salaries of all the employees in education, because I think they would fully support it, in health care, etc. We have to be responsible. We need to be aware of one fact that the budget is not a bottomless hole, that it cannot be discussed just in the direction of what will be financed from that budget without there being a discussion of what the budget is created from. What do I mean? This budget provides for eight billion dinars more for social needs compared to the previous year and that is the biggest increase, as regards individual items. This government took care of social needs. If we're asking a question, I don't mind working pregnant women getting 100% of their salary, and in most of the municipalities where the URS is in power, almost everyone, without exception, one such decision is being implemented. We have 650,000 people in Serbia below the poverty line, and only 125,000 people receive social assistance. Why don't we ask a question, what about unemployed pregnant women, if they should get something that's even more difficult. It is not difficult to list social groups, social groups, citizens of Serbia who are in a state of social need, but there are clear restrictions and you have had the opportunity to hear from the minister, he is undisputed, but in the 2013 budget there really is no room at this time. So, as of 2014, this will be possible, so we all have to show, first and foremost, patience and responsibility. Easy to share, easy to promise, easy to indicate who has problems in Serbia. There's hardly anyone who doesn't have a problem and who doesn't need help. Indeed, in such a way to collect some political points, I think it is unserious and irresponsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5980	Replica Mira Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5981	I must say, I'm surprised, first by your finding that we must be responsible. I'm Mr. Ilic's very responsible person. I don't think you're invited to assess my responsibility, as I don't think you should be Mr. Dinkic's attorney. Mr Dinkic is present here as minister and should defend the government. That if eight billion more is set aside for social contributions in this country is unfortunately the sad story of this country, because everything is as bad as it is. I don't think these people need to be eliminated, but I also don't think women who have a risky pregnancy should be punished by 35%. I think it's really inappropriate for you to find that it's a cheap point-gathering. Believe me, you should question women who maintain pregnancy, see if they think what you're thinking. We're talking about a country, the survival of a state. That's what the DSS lady was talking about yesterday, about the extinction of this nation, where 30,000 people died more than they were born. It's just... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... Why do we need highways? Tell me what corridors? So who's going to go to those corridors if we don't have the talent? Who's going? What do we need a Fiat for? So are we making it for these five years and the next five years? It's supposed to exist over the next 30 years. We don't need anything then, we don't need environmentals, we don't need education, we need health care, we don't need anything. So we have to go from being the base. We're the base. Our base is children, so I really don't understand your need to respect me at all, especially not responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5982	Replica Vladimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5983	Of course, when I spoke out of responsibility, I didn't mean your responsibility, I meant the responsibility of all of us. The budget applies to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, although you would ask today one unemployed pregnant woman, do you think that you are someone who should receive social assistance from this country from a pregnant woman who works, who receives 65% of the salary, so you know what? She'd say - well, of course I'm a priority. This is about, when we mention responsibility, only about priorities and order of events of certain problems in society. I really think it's completely undeniable, I can make a proposal to the minister that would welcome at least two million people in this country, to double pensions, is the easiest thing to say. I really have an argument, because pensioners live really hard in this country, it's not enough to pay for drugs, but would my proposal be realistic and would he be responsible for doubling salaries and members of the MUP, the military, health care? Indeed, I can say that and I can support, argue, entirely that it is justified, that even that double salary increase is not enough for life. That's not hard to say at all. Indeed, if we have any responsibility in relation to the situation in the country, to over-indebtedness, to the need to reduce the budget deficit in this regard, I am talking about responsibility. The easiest way to transfer those debts is to pay off these things? To future generations. So if we think good of those kids, let's stop burdening them today, when they get in a position to work and pay off those debts. Let's cut their load.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5984	We will continue our work at 15.00 hours, informing you that according to this amendment, Elvira Kovac, Bojan Đuric, Ljiljana Lučić will have the word. Your MP has wasted her time and you can't get the word. According to Articles 27 and 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a regular break of one hour. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Also, according to Article 87(2). Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly today will extend the work even after 18.00 hours, which includes a joint review of the drafts of the law on item 5, from agenda 5 to 12, because of the need to propose acts from the agenda as soon as possible. The replica and the rest will continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you very much. [[After a break.]] The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5986	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak of the amendment and I will use the remaining time of the authorised representative. The Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians supports this amendment, Mrs Petrovic, as well as the vast majority or all parliamentary parties. What's not good is that the issue of pregnant women is politicized, or everyone wants to pick up cheap political points. Newspapers have been talking about it for weeks. A daily newspaper began to talk about it, questioned representatives of almost all parties, and then they didn't ask us. Everyone boasted that it was a wonderful amendment, that it was a very good amendment, and then we saw here that there wouldn't be adequate support, that he probably wouldn't be voted. I sincerely hope that the representative of the ambassador group from which Mrs Petrovic has proposed the amendment will all vote in favour of the amendment and that everyone else who will be present tomorrow morning will support it. It is indeed true that for the first time we have 30% in this House, which means there are 80 women. If only they were to vote for this amendment, he would have great chances, of course, with the support of some opposition parties. If you'll excuse me, I would like to quote Mr. Ivica Dacic's exposés, the prime minister -- 40,000 babies are born in Serbia every year less than the number of deaths. If this trend continues, in two to three centuries Serbia will remain empty. We're going inexorably to self-destruction. It's time for this trend to stop. That's why the government will exit urgently, not with a strategy, but with concrete measures to stop the biological disappearance. I ask now what are these concrete measures, when today we have a proposal that cannot be accepted. When we have, not to say a promise to the crazy joy that since 2014, something drastic is going to change. Unfortunately, not all women are fortunate to have a healthy pregnancy, which they can carry out to the end, but must be sick because of the maintenance of pregnancy and unfortunately not all couples in Serbia can naturally plan a family, but every seven or eight couples in Serbia have problems with sterileity. A colleague from the DSS talked about it yesterday, me last week, and we know what the problems with the out-of-body fertilization process in our country are. Many couples wait a few months. Whether this pregnant woman, whether a young couple live in Jagodina, Belgrade, or in another city, does not matter whether we are all talking about even regional development. I don't understand why we can't all, when we're so declaring to support pregnant women, support this amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5987	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5988	I didn't mean to answer, but then Mrs. Petrovic, and it wasn't the first time in her aggressive performance that caused some kind of LDP reaction. Right away, the LDP has nothing against the concept that you put out and the idea of helping those women for a pretty large amount, I would tell those couples. You've talked about it a little bit, usually there's a man's side in that couple. I don't know if you think she's more or less responsible for her future offspring, but that's just the way it is. What bothers me is a serious dose of pulsism and demagogy behind your amendment, behind your reasoning, and especially behind the way you spoke here today, trying to deal with opposition parties who tell you they will vote for the amendment, and you have no problem with the fact that most of your ruling coalition, or the government in which your party is also obviously not ready to support the amendment. Of course, your amendment has one, I would say, not technically, but a serious political defect. You have failed to say from which positions in the budget you would take off this amount, to ensure that it is paid as a profit compensation during the temporary prevention of women who have complications and have to maintain pregnancy. You haven't made a technical mistake, to be fair, you've acted populistly. You didn't want to be accused of diminishing revenue from another group in society, of some other beneficiary of the budget. That is the difference between you and us or some other political parties when they propose amendments. We're ready to make some political decision and stand behind it. Let's say someone needs to be given a little less to provide more money on the other side. You don't do it in this case and you don't do it in some other cases. Like in 2008, you did not act responsibly when you entered the government and supported the then-established ruling coalition, extorted by breaking the republican budget, or by forcing a new coalition into which you entered that famous linear pension increase, to break the budget for about 450 or 500m euros at that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5989	Mr. People's MP, please, this isn't about whether a party is responsible or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5990	It's about the lack of this amendment. ) Please return to the amendment. I've given you my word for the amendment which is perfectly clear and please be sure to speak according to the amendment. Don't analyze it. I'm sorry, but I'll continue... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5992	I won't allow it. I'm not going to let you run a personality analysis now, what anyone thought, what anyone assumed. Here's to the amendment and be specific. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5993	I'm very specific. I wasn't talking about personality. I was talking about why this amendment in this form cannot even be adopted. That is what the ruling majority itself says and points to similar behaviour in the political past, the political organisation proposed by this amendment. Why am I particularly pointing out that? Because, in parallel with this amendment, parallel to this debate, Mr Dinkic spoke about it, the government adopted a fiscal strategy two days ago, with projections for 2013, with projections for 2014 and 2015. Mrs. Petrovic spoke alone in her discussion about it, discussed it with the minister and discussed it with other political parties. I think the fundamental order in parliament is an opportunity to talk here about these arguments and I ask you not to stop me from doing that. You have today decided to talk about your amendment that needs to provide 3.5 billion dinars more. You missed out on saying where you'd take it off. Like when you crucified the LDP cross in 2009, when it proposed to introduce some kind of penal for those people who retire before the prescribed border or before the age limit, and then you as part of the ruling coalition just two days ago, I assume you voted on the government, your president who is the minister in that government, to adopt a fiscal strategy that says that by changing the law in the first half of 2013 you will ensure that workers who retire before the regular retirement age limit receive a relatively small amount of pension compensation, and workers who retire after regular retirement, that they are somehow rewarded. That's a good idea. That's the irresponsibility I'm talking about. I'd have more understanding for your amendment, although in principle for the idea itself, I'm saying that I don't mind, if you were willing to say from which positions in the budget you'd take off the appropriate amount. That is why this amendment is much more like, some colleagues have said of cheap political promotion, and I, given how you have been politically acting in the past, would say too expensive political promotion. You've imposed that tone yourself in the debate. You insisted on how many women are active and how many men are active. You called the political parties that they weren't in the O.R., or that they were only in the O.R. when their amendments or their representatives were. You just missed to explain to us how it was that your chairman of the party that the minister in this government was not in this room yesterday, wasn't a month ago when it was last Thursday of the month, wasn't even a month before it was the last Thursday of the month. I don't have any principled objections to that, but don't blame others for what you do first.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5994	The word is made by the People's MP Mira Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5995	I didn't think I was answering my amendment anymore, but I just can't help answering. I think you've taken another chance like a thousand times so far to point out how you LDPs worked one way or another. I allow my amendment to be incorrect. I've been distracted, and now that we've talked, if I'd missed out on the amendment to indicate which position it would have come down from, and it wasn't with evil intentions, as you mean. It was simply perhaps my inexperience, because I am the new MP in this House. I accept to myself that he's not right in that part. As for the price paid in 2008, I'm afraid 1,700,000 pensioners don't think as much as you do, as these 500,000 now. What's the fundamental difference between you and us from PUPS is that we really have a very responsible social policy. We showed it in the city and we showed exactly what can be done and how priority can be made without having 100 things to start. I don't know what right you're giving lessons whether someone responsible did something or not, and if someone's done a budget minus? So you've shown enough of your work in the city. You didn't cross the census. We ran a part of the city, that is, part of the business in the city, run a very recognizable social policy, so we gave really different aids and women, we did a lot for children with developmental disorders. I'm sorry to have to say this right now, but I have to point out that you're wrong. Boyan Djuric, from the scene: You allow this? I don't know why you're allowed to say that, and I'm not? Maybe my tone is a little bit more aggressive, but it's just my nature and my temperament. I had an objection to the presence in the O.R. yesterday at the male lineup. I just wanted to do a little fighting for us. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5996	Thank you. Replica, MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5997	I don't mind your tone. I'm always up for that kind of debate. The chairman just intervened when I spoke, so I asked if the same rules were in force? I have to remind you that we crossed the censorship, otherwise we wouldn't be talking here today. The LDP MPs are here, and we are in the Serbian Parliament, not the Belgrade Assembly. I think you're very often wrong about that. None of those decisions, which you're so boasting about now, from 2008 to 2012, you wouldn't be able to make in the city without LDP votes, if that's what we're talking about. Since the 2008 budget was broken, it's not my political assessment, it's a technical matter. You passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law and for so much you broke the line that existed before and then it started to grow and to jump both our budget deficit and, afterwards, public debt. It's amazing your ambition to speak on behalf of 1,700,000 pensioners and to pretend that you have a monopoly on 1,700,000 pensioners. You went to elections in a coalition where you're a smaller partner. So at best you can count or talk about a hundred or something more than that thousands of pensioners. There are 1,700,000 pensioners in Serbia and they, I guess, vote in different proportions for all the political parties that are here in the hall. Please don't bring up that ambition that lasts for years, that you're a monopoly on pension votes in this country. You are a monopoliest in another form, an organisation called the Union of Pensioners of Serbia and through which you control and what you cannot control directly as a political party and members of the ruling coalition. While you're already pulling me by the tongue, you could have suggested some other savings in the budget and some very easily reduced positions in the budget. For example, you could agree with the proposal that there are no board of directors of the PIO Fund 21 members, as there are now, of which is as much from your party or the Alliance of Pensioners of Serbia. See what your "Glass Insurance" newspaper looks like? You have a report from the elections in the Alliance of Pensioners of Serbia, and on the wall is a picture of Jovan Krkobic and PUPS. Is that the abuse of laws and budgets or what we're talking about? Please don't ever start this debate like that again.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5998	Replica, MP Mira Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u5999	You didn't listen to me very carefully. I didn't say 1,700,000 pensioners. I didn't say that. I was talking about my party policy. I said 1,700,000 pensioners wouldn't agree with you if we hadn't done good for them. I haven't said a single moment at all how many of our members and our voters are, so you're changing the thesis a little bit the way it suits you, but I'm really not going to engage in any more discussions with you on this subject. I think we should get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6000	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6001	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 paints the position of the entire government. The SNS, as the biggest partner in the ruling coalition and most responsible, will support the 2013 budget proposal. I think with this budget, which you could hear from the debate both in principle and in particular, we are proud that the growth of the budget deficit has been stopped. We believe that we will stop it at 3.6% next year, which will give us a relaxing 2014 year, which is ahead of us, unlike the previous ones. As for the motive for the proposed amendment, Col. Petrovic, I think the amendment is extremely correct and extremely human. It refers to a social category of our society that, of course, needs to be helped. But what is the position of one part of the fellow MPs who pointed out this debate is flawed because there's no other part, and that's where we're going to save, where we're going to take, where we're going to make those 3.5 billion dinars? The Serbian Progressive Party came out with a proposal and the proposal is correct and realistic. Namely, the town of Belgrade, in which Ms Petrovic's party has strong participation in power, makes a decision to buy 180 plus 220, means 400 buses for the GSP. The tender documentation was done in such a way that it was discredited "Icarbus" and that some other producers, the type "Solaris". In this way, more than 70,000 euros are paid per vehicle or 26m euros are given to a foreign bidder, a foreign company, instead of a domestic bidder. That's almost two billion and 800. So we've come close to 3.5 billion figures, which you're looking for, and we can save it by preventing such a tender, which you're going to prevent so much funds from being drained, and you're about to do that, and that is to say, it's an opportunity for a committee group in the city of Belgrade to do that. We're almost a billion dinars short. The billion dinars can also be saved in the city administration of Belgrade. It can also be saved, that there are other socially endangered categories of our citizens. Namely, all the Belgraders are in a position to see the harassment of the bus-plus bill. This bill is entrusted to the company Apeks. At the Business Registers Agency, you can see that it was a company that had one employee and a stake of 500 euros at the time of its establishment. She was given a million-dollar job, to manage and to charge tickets at 8.53% per card, unlike the GSP, who did that charge at 3.5%. So 5% of us worship a company that came here with 500 euros in founding capital and one employee. Here, stop that and we'll have money for both pregnant women and many other endangered categories of our society. Criticise it, go out and vote against those decisions and, behold, I am sure you will find support in almost all political parties in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6002	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6003	Dear Chairman, I am advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure, article 106, which clearly states that the speaker can only speak about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. I know the SNS is in a lot of pain in Belgrade and defeat from Dragan Gilas and DS in Belgrade, but that's the theme of the Belgrade city's parliament. It's not the subject of the Serbian Parliament. So if you have a problem, if you have frustration, treat it in the Belgrade city parliament. Here is the topic, set by MP Mira Petrovic, one amendment that we should discuss, so that, the chairman, I ask you not to give this much space to an MP who violates Article 106. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6004	The way we're going, we won't be done soon. I have to admit, you're not even a bit correct. We talked and talked about this amendment a little while ago. You also pointed out to me the lack of the amendment. I don't know how feasible it is if he's missing. I accepted he was missing. I'm sorry we're in the debate right now, but I've accepted that he's missing, even though I'm not giving up on him. You're mixing exactly what Mr. Djuric warned me about. We mix up the city and mix up the republic. On the other hand, you don't have good information. I'm not a councilman in town, but as far as I know, it's not assigned a job, nor is it finished. I see there's no longer just an Icarbus in circulation as a bus manufacturer in this country. I didn't get your message to me. I don't know what you expect me to do. I am a PUPS MP in the Republic Parliament. I don't understand how there's something we can do at one point, and the other we can't. I think this discussion should have ended with Mr. Djuric, who applied for a word. I don't know, what are we supposed to do now? Why are you transferring me to something that's going on in town? Do you know how many councilmen you have in town? Why are you talking cynically about PUPS committees? We've completely missed the subject. In my best interest to propose on behalf of our party something better for all women of Serbia, we have come to political bickering in the City of Belgrade. I don't think this is correct on your part. I'm not the address for that. There's a head of the council group in Belgrade City, please contact him. [[President: Replication timed out.]] I'm just an authorized person here today and a MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6005	Mr. Granny, please, let's finish the replicas. Here you go, but I think she's already losing her mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6006	For SNS on a thousand, two or five thousand dinars or a hundred dinars, there is no sentence – this is money for the City of Belgrade or for the municipality or for the Republic. Money is money, in the city administration, in the state administration. It is not the money or party of Mrs Petrovic, nor the SNS. It's the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party says -- the motive for this amendment is human, correct, correct. We don't have any more of that. There's no money from where. There's money from where. I'm not talking cynically about a PUPS game. I respect you. My mother's a pensioner. A lot of my friends and relatives are pensioners, so I have no reason to speak to you cynically. But what I'm saying is that you can't support on the one hand the blatantly uncontrolled spending of the budget of citizens of Belgrade, who are also citizens of Serbia, and on the other hand you just say "must" and it takes three and a half billion dinars for another social category of our society. That's the solution. Be brave, come out. Say we don't support the purchase of 400 buses, we don't give "Apes" to get rich, we don't let privates get rich, there's those funds, we'll reroute them to pregnant women. That's what we expect of you, to behave responsibly and equally.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6007	Let's stop discussing the City of Belgrade. This is where Serbia's budget is being debated, and don't let us mix things up right now. That from where the funds can be excluded, let the government handle it. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6008	Article 106. Rules of Procedure – the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. You have seen this flaw, but after the speaker has completely completed his speech, completely off the topic of the agenda. What is a fact is that in this situation or you introduce order, the chairman, which we are asking you from the DS, or to take a break, so that the ruling coalition, which obviously has a deep disagreement on something this important, important and humane, is working on their grief in the City of Belgrade, and tomorrow, in all of Serbia, will function. I don't understand why it is so annoying for them, when it is obvious that people are looking for something that works well to expand throughout Serbia, but another problem is that there is no consensus within the coalition and that citizens should know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6009	Mr. Stefanovic, I fully accept your remarks. I'm not gonna let any more debates go past the budget. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Just don't repeat the same violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6010	Just define the frameworks in which I can speak, best and text. Article 27. So, Mrs Petrovic first launched a debate on the City of Belgrade and everything else. I agree that, with a warning from her, which you have said in some way, I understand that you have some party views, too, to end it. Please don't say that sentence in parliament anymore – the government will eventually decide on the allocation of funds. That's not true. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is solely decided by the National Assembly that you chair. On several occasions, it seemed to me that you were going over it. That's what this debate is for. If you want us to go back to the budget, then let us talk about the budget. As it is already being discussed who is taking the money and where it is going, what are the competencies, whether the money of all citizens of Serbia or the citizens of Vojvodina, etc., the debate at that level was first launched by Mr Dinkic this morning. Okay, I agree, I don't mind, but please don't face us with that claim over and over again, as the government will decide everything. Serbia is a parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6011	I accept your objection as well. I made a lapus. I couldn't agree more. According to the Rules of Procedure, Veroljub Arsic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I signed up for the line, and the chairman has been ignoring me for a long time, so he's breaking Article 104. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, especially when some have expressed themselves quite offensively about the SNS, especially that we are in pain for Belgrade. I will say what hurts us, not the government in the City of Belgrade, but what hurts is that only at a difference in price not only for the citizens of Belgrade, because Belgrade is not only financed from its budget, but also by the transfer funds from the Republic, entrusted revenues... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6013	Mr. Arsic, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure and don't go on the line, please. I'll answer you about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Sign up again, if you have any further needs for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6014	Mr. Chairman, you are now in violation of the Rules of Procedure again because you do not allow me to explain where the Rules of Procedure has been broken, because the gentlemen who defend a particular policy forget that if the state buys something on the market, especially if it is domestic...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6015	Mr. Arsic, if you'll excuse me, please, you've advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman that he didn't give you his word on time, not debate. That's how you started.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6016	Well, then, can we finally, since I pointed out a breach of the Rules of Procedure, give me the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6017	You're not entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6018	I don't have the right to a replica? Then I ask the Parliament in voting day to declare whether there have been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6019	All right. I only have one explanation. Please, no one takes it as a right in the Assembly to have some priority. I kept a strict account in order of the declared MPs for the replica, and in that sense I respected and felt that I did not harm the Rules of Procedure. Neither did you, Mrs. Petrovic, I said we're done. The word is made by MP Borislav Kovacevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6020	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, let's calm things down a little bit. Everyone in for something went into things that don't concern this amendment. I'm just gonna say one thing that I can't make up with, and I guess all of you, as opposed to the remark that MP PUPS can't talk about all pensioners. You know what that assumes? It assumes that all of us here in the Assembly should stand up and talk only about those people, those citizens who voted for us. I hope that's not what we came to the Assembly for. I expect, I suppose, and I'm sure that this is a small thing in the very expression of that thought. I think we all came here to sit in the interest of all citizens. Comrade Mira is with this amendment... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6021	Mr. Kovacevic, please, no one can hear you. I shut you down. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, does this look like a circus to you? Let's not, please. I don't think this is a circus. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Please, just after the amendment. (Bojan Djuric, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) I apologize, the word has a People's MP, Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6022	I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arsenovic, because you interrupted a PUPS MP who spoke. This is what I mean most seriously. You're acting like this in some way, I'm not going to say you're turning into a circus, but you're making it impossible to discuss it. Now everyone in the gym is laughing, and I remind you that we've started from the discussion of women, women's rights, the need to help women who maintain pregnancy. Meanwhile, the debate has opened up and you're breaking it up pretty rough now. What are you doing this for? I think we can talk civilizedly, that after the gentleman delivers his opinion and I answer to him in two minutes, and that is a perfectly normal parliamentary debate. What are you interrupting this for? I think this is an important issue, both from the point of view of the budget and from the point of view of the amendments, to determine what is the meaning of this debate and what is the meaning of parliamentary democracy. I'm ready to talk about what the MP was talking about. What are you stopping it for? I don't understand how this threatens the dignity of the assembly, the agenda? That's what Parliament's for. What are you interrupting this for?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6023	Mr. Djuric, I am obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure and to hold a debate on the agenda, not to turn this debate into a political debate. So I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. If this is to be declared by the Assembly, I have nothing against it. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6024	Mr. Chairman, I am a patient man and a tolerance, and I have great respect for you and for your function, according to your age and your rank. Believe it or not, I'll return to the amendment. I like this amendment very much. I think it's a little three and a half billion, I think it needs more money. Since the amendment has one technical deficiency, and the minister will agree, given that the amendment's proposal did not find it appropriate to find funds on the dispensary side, which will be subtracted to provide these three and a half billion, so I think we all think together, I don't know what the options of the committees in charge and what can be corrected in this amendment, but that we all think about this amendment and that it is worth adopting. Why? The average age of the Serbian population is 50 or 51 years. The average age of pensioners, I'm afraid, isn't much bigger. There is a very small difference between the average age of pensioners and the average age of one Serbian population, so this amendment is very meaningful. Now we need to see where to secure those funds. It's something to think about, is it possible to correct the amendment? I'm not that much of a version, but I suggest the finance minister thinks about the following things. Since this is three and a half billion, I think it should be increased to at least five billion, just one thing at a time. I think in the future we should tax these nasty rich. Let's say, just one tycoon in Serbia, and I'm also going to quote an example of Dragan Gilas, the man is a billionaire. If we tax him at 5%, we'll get five billion. We only need three and a half here. You just need to see where to take it. I suggest we take these nasty rich people and give them to the poor, so we can restore the nation. My second suggestion is that the five billion is small too, that it should be increased. But how? Enlarge by reforming the pension system. So, all pensions above 50,000, please, it's in the topic – where to get the money and honor this amendment. I suggest it's five billion dollars and we get another five billion, by limiting pensions to, say, 50,000 dinars and all of them to over 50,000 dinars, pushing into the fund...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6025	Mr. Risticevic, please return to the topic, if you're not finished. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6026	Mr. Chairman, I think I've treated the amendment and the motionary with all due respect. The promoter had one shortfall, asked for three-and-a-half billion funds, didn't know on which side to provide the funds. I suggest that in a future such a meaningful amendment rises in the budget into a special budget item and that we tax the unsuspectingly wealthy and all those whose pensions are compared to those pensioners of 22,000, unsuspectingly large. In these two ways we can raise 10 billion and help the nation not to be an average age of 50, the third in the world. It's just about where to find those funds. That's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6027	Mr. Stefanovic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6028	I gave up, you reacted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6029	Mr. Arsic, is it an amendment? Yeah. Here you go. I apologize, according to the Rules of Procedure Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6030	Dear Chairman, I'm going to ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure anymore. You have now violated Article 107, allowing the MP, Mr Risticevic, under article 107, to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons, offensive expressions, as well as the fact and assessment relating to the private life of other persons. Please, or remind MP Risticevic or, if you do not accept my proposal, that in the Election Day, the Parliament has declared whether you have hurt the Rules of Procedure, because you did not warn him, since he mentioned the president of the DS and the mayor of Belgrade in a very negative sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6031	Mr. Milisavljevic, in time I warned Risticevic, Risticevic returned to the topic and I believe he was not injured by the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Arsic, by amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently because of the rigorous conduct of the session of the Assembly, my presentation will be a little bit more extensive on this amendment so that it doesn't happen by chance that I don't talk about the subject of the agenda. As everyone knows, we have two types of budget. The budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is charged with taxes, customs and excise duties, from the transfer, use and carrying of goods and various other tax duties. One part of these tax payments are denied in favour of local self-government units, and the entire budget of the Republic of Serbia operates on the principle of a consolidated account. Since this amendment has one specific technical deficiency, as suggested by all of you, my colleague Babic, to provide this part of the funds with savings while conducting crazy procurement procedures. Because it's not just 25m euros or 26m euros in savings that matter. It's only the primary consequence of giving up such a public procurement. I ask the question - how many of our domestic workers will work, in this case, for the City of Belgrade, how many of their salaries will, how much will there be to contribute to health insurance, how much will there be to contribute to pension insurance, how much will they hire their spare parts producers to increase, produce something, how much will it affect GDP growth? What's the damage to the state? There's only one, and that's that there's no customs. All of this is more than 10 times bigger than the state will lose in customs. By employing domestic capacities, you lower production costs, increase gross income and give our domestic businesses the right to have investments, create new jobs and thus encourage economic activity. It's not just the Icarbus, it's everyone who works for him so he can produce the bus. That's what this is about. That was the idea. Not only will savings provide funds for these pregnant women, but the funds in the fund will be much bigger than they are now. It's purely economic logic. It has nothing to do with the attack on a man, but it has to do with the attack on a policy that a certain man, or public official, leads.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6033	Thank you. On Article 7th, 26 amendments were submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6034	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me remind you, this is the Serbian Parliament and you and I, probably, who I've been waiting for since I was half two for this amendment, I couldn't conclude. So, the last time you and I talked, then the Environment Fund was abolished, then you said green dinar funds would be very visible and we wouldn't have to ask for much. By the way, the Ministry Act, the area of environmental protection, has been divided into two ministries, very unfortunate. These are difficult circumstances so that you can track that green dinar. Believe me, it was very difficult to send, and if it wasn't for the kindness of your colleague who was on the Committee on Environmental Protection, we would never know the percentage this government has defined to protect the environment. It's 0.4%. It turns out that those in culture are real rich people in relation to environmental protection. I'll remind you, Mr. Minister, you also voted for a document brought to the government called the Sustainable Development Strategy. This document treats environmental protection as the third pillar of sustainable development. Now imagine the third pillar of Serbia's sustainable development in which the state of Serbia and the government of Serbia invested 0.4% of the budget. Now I have to comment on how funds are being allocated to the ministry itself. I'll talk about the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection. No matter what I think of the concept that exists at the moment, this part of the Environmental Protection Agency has been identified by 27 million for the monitoring business. So I'm not talking about a concept that I completely disagree with, for environmental monitoring activities in Serbia. At the same time, 200 million are defined by NGOs to work within the framework of environmental protection. Doesn't it seem to be the very proposing of this budget that this ratio of 27 million for full monitoring and 200 million is something we need to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6035	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirjana Dragas. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6036	Thank you. The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of Parliament, I will now look back on a seemingly small and irrelevant topic after a heated debate that has been under way in parliament for several hours. However, in this regard, regardless of what I have received from the government, I want to look back at a few things that I consider to be extremely important. Namely, I have submitted an amendment proposing to separate some of the funds in the budget that would support the Obradovic Task Force and that with an explanation. The amendment says that the funds we have proposed would be used to regularly maintain Dosite's home in another country, its use in promoting Serbia's cultural heritage as a link to all the celebrations of Europe and the world. In the answer I received, I am not going to read everything, that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that part of the funds in the economic classification 481 – grant to NGOs, I underline and this is an NGO dedicated to the Order of the Holy Manastire Hilandar and the Royal Court Fund. I thought that this was exactly the right place where at least a little institution called the Obradovic Obradovic Task Force could be married. The following is said: the remaining amount of apropriation, which is not seen from the draft budget, is allocated for programmes and projects in culture through competition. Of course we know that, but projects and programs are, in particular, those who do culture know that, something quite different and on a proposal where they can compete with programs. The funds for the regular maintenance of Dosite's home that we consider to be abroad, which is very important to us, must be a significant place in the cultural map of Serbia's historical monuments. The importance of this point is that today we want to send a message that our liquids, that what we want today and that we want to develop Serbia, are worthy of European values. They did, but Dosei spoke 11 European languages. It is the largest European among Serbs. In the state of Serbia, there is nothing of national importance institutions that bear the name of Dosite Obradovic, except 28 elementary schools, four high schools, three libraries and the Vuk and Dosite Museum, as well as streets across cities. It was founded by obtaining ownership of the house in which Dossyus was born. We believe that precisely on the trail of the preservation of these European values and messages that Dositeus left us, which are highly applicable in today's times, the house where he was born and which certainly belongs to the European heritage needs to be preserved on our part. I didn't expect this opportunity to get a positive answer and an agreement to separate some of the funds from this item, but maybe it could have been at least a fraction, let's say 500,000, to appreciate the importance of an institution like this. In doing so, I must say that the "Doseij Obradovic" task in Belgrade exists for eight years. He's been working here for eight years in a town where Dostyus came to make it a European city and where he left big leads. He founded a large school in a building that is not even separated today as a historical monument and museum. She is, gentlemen, a historical monument of the general zeroth category, but she is a residential object. Also, in Belgrade, he founded a seminary where he donated his house to such an institution. We did not deem it worthy, despite the fact that the Serbs a hundred years ago, respecting the name and work of Dosite Obradovic, had one great desire to raise Dosite's home in Belgrade, which would be a haven for all those who respect his work, educational workers, cultural workers, etc. We, as part of the task, have tried to mark significant jubilee, marked for 200 years that Dositej became Serbia's first minister of education. I'm saying this for another reason. In addition to a building that exists as the first major school, which is not marked and is not a historical monument, besides not marking the place of the first Belgrade seminary, which I believe are also important institutions in our historical development, it also marks 200 years of the Belgrade University's creation, today we have one situation to rebuild, as I welcome, the Sheikh Mustafino turbine. I hope you all know where he is, at least these people who are gravitating towards that end. Sheik Mustafino turbo is just a historical monument located next to the Faculty of Natural-Mathematics and is being restored by the Turkish Republic's funds. He is a significant historical monument in Belgrade and should be restored. I welcome this, but in addition to a series of initiatives that we had in the previous period, that this piece of Belgrade, which is located outside the Student Park, is just marked in an adequate manner, marking the place where Dositey opened the Great School, where he laid the foundations of higher education, the place where she continued the work of the Great School and thank God that she was restored, finally, after a lot of appeals, the Museum of Vuk and Dosite, as another building in which the Great School worked, also had no place to work in Belgrade. Belgrade, with the idea of Dosite, was to become a European city 200 years ago, as well as Serbia's modern European state. In that sense, I think that because of this importance, I need to draw attention to one of these institutions and to one of these answers, which is not really an answer to my question and my proposal. I'm looking for a way to keep the house alive, not a manual on how to finance the programs. For example, I'm going to say this. In 1905, the Kingdom of Serbia passed the Law on Intangibles. The law stipulates that there is a special portfolio to deal with this type of institution, for two reasons, for the content and objectives they are dedicated to, but also for the preservation of material values that such institutions have, because they are huge buildings and property. I think from that point of view, this should be the subject of future consideration. Finally, I would just go back to it if this was a relationship to our values, in the sense that, as we don't refer to Dosite, we don't treat Nikola, until someone else reminds us, so we remember those values and those messages, Milutin Milankovic or some of our other greats. Let's turn to ourselves and to our own values. Let us cultivate what is our value and what is our culture and teach it today. I would look back once on something else, which is related to both this and our overall relationship with both cultural development points and our economic and biological survival. In Prime Minister Ivica Dacic's exposé, as Elvira Kovac has already quoted here, we had the first item concerning the renewal of the population. I propose, since I am referred from the parliamentary group in time, that future budget composition and any other responsible behaviour towards the preservation of the biological substance of the people living in Serbia in the future be turned towards the objectives of this budget towards the preservation of the people and demographic problems, so that we do not get into a situation that the rest of the population in the future or MPs in parliament must be shared by the Hazari Dictionary. So if we turn things around in another way, set basic goals, in terms of the need to preserve the people and our lives, we will succeed in achieving these other elements, and they will actually have their own confirmation of why we fought for them, because they will have whoever has them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6037	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7th of the 29th Amendment, MP Vera Paunovic submitted. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 paragraph 29 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6038	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, my amendment is to the 7th budget of the Republic of Serbia and he provides funds for the payment of the back salaries of the workers of the Electronic Industry, the Machine Industry, the "Builders" and the "Nitexa" in Nis. I think we need to find a way for these workers, who have a huge number of outstanding monthly earnings, and they're moving about 94,000 monthly earnings, to apply the minimum wage method of 20,000. It's this item in the budget that I've found and that I'm proposing to this Republic government, to damage these citizens of Nis, these workers of these factories, so that they can live. This is literally an appeal for the lives of these workers, because they simply have no place to pay for electricity, water, utility, and the state additionally burdens them with these accounts. They want to live, they want to pay their bills, but they just can't collect their monthly earnings. And in the afternoon part, I asked you to find ways to find a little term, Mr. Dinkic, to receive these workers from Nis, because they have been walking around Nis for weeks, on the streets, seeking the help of the mayor, seeking help from anyone who would come to you to schedule a meeting with you. I'm taking the opportunity as a folk MP to be a mediator between these workers and you, to open up this topic of how to find a way, even though we're a poor country, even though there's no money, to help the poorest layer of our society, to people who are losers in transition, who have had these salaries, and they haven't made up for them from the state. I think the state has been smelling much bigger losers, and there is no hearing about the poorest layer, for citizens and workers, especially for the citizens of Southeast Serbia. Once again, I ask you, in the next few days, unbound by this amendment, to find little time for Nis workers to come to an offer of a solution in a conversation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6039	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7th of the 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6040	Dear colleagues, distinguished ministers, since my second term is here, for the fourth time in a row, how I insist on raising the funds for martial arts organisations, for associations that cultivate the tradition of free wars and serve as one, I can say freely, an amortization factor when it comes to the attitude of the state and the authorities and the users of veterinary rights themselves. In this draft budget, it envisions that organisations, just like last year, will be allocated 59 million dinars and that 59 million dinars go through projects and through certain competitions and be divided. Some 60 organizations headed by the NoB Fighters' Alliance, with SUBNOR and many other organizations of fighting, disability, etc. They're trying to find a better status for the users of these rights in society than the one they currently have. Of course, the amendment was rejected. I will explain to the public that we have found both the moment and the place where these funds exist and we think they can be repainted and allocated 50 million, which is from the grant sector to NGOs, to protect and improve the situation of people with disabilities where 343 million dinars are foreseen. We think that these 50 million dinars from there removed and transferred to this one position where it would increase or I would say double the amount for the 109 million-million-dollar fighting organisations, would not do much to disrupt the implementation of projects of persons with disabilities and their organisations, and would greatly contribute to the work of these organisations when it comes to fighting and disability protection. In the explanation of the government that we have received, of course everything is as it is written, however, there are several illogicalities and I would now point to them, urging the minister to consider once again whether there are opportunities and we would like this to prove to be a good will or to give credit to those people who defended the state. It is said here that these means of approving disabled persons are set aside for SOS services, removing architectural barriers, etc. It's all true, but it's all done by local self-government, it's all done through projects and other organisations or state bodies. We don't think these means, in this way envisaged, go all the way for that purpose, that's one thing. The second thing, it is also noted that it is possible to compete in this sector when it comes to persons with disabilities, it is true and can refer to associations of war-wartime people, but not to organisations of fighters who gather over two hundred thousand fighters, and they are strictly based on this first set, which is 59 million. So, taking into account what's happening in the environment when it comes to the unfortunate events that have happened since the 1990s, how much of the countries are counting on their own, let's call them veterans, yet I personally think that this government may at least in some way before the law of martial law, which is needed by our country, enters this assembly, to find a little hearing in this way and help organisations to amortise the great dissatisfaction that escalates even in court proceedings, coming to Strasbourg. I believe that you ministers will think about this a little bit before Vote Day and that you will accept this amendment, and I appeal to you and expect it to be so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6041	The word has Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6042	I have to say that the amendment is absolutely and technically correct, that it is possible to implement it, that there is justification, but as a representative of the government, I have no mandate to accept it for the reason this argument was written by the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection. I don't know what the structure of the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection is. You have given the initiative to reduce the budget fund for protection programmes and improvements in the position of persons with disabilities, by the same amount to help the fighting organisations, and whether this is possible or not, the ministry should be asked. It would not be correct for me to accept it on behalf of the government now that the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection has written such an argument. If they had spoken with you to accept this amendment of yours, I would have even advised the MPs to vote on it. But I can't now, as a representative of the government, change something that is the response of the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, and I don't really know how they plan the funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6043	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Duyovitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6044	Since there is little time left from the parliamentary group, it is clear to me, but I expect here that you, as someone representing the government, are prepared even for this sort of thing. I believe that the resolution minister will take care when the vote is cast tomorrow and that you may already be able to clear up this dilemma during the afternoon or evening with him, so perhaps you can suggest to us as MPs. In any case, I will invite all MPs, and this way I call on all MPs to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6045	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7, the 30 amendments with the correction were submitted jointly by the MPs Miljenko Dereta, Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Kenan Hajdarevic and Mr Svetislava Bulajić. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 30 and 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6046	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Ministers, we remember the debate in the principle of the bill's proposal when individual representatives of the government said that this is primarily a thrifty budget and that this budget will effectively cut the deficit, we will cut the deficit, we will save in all segments of life. However, this government does not spare on administration and bureaucracy. If you look at the draft budget you will see section 51 of the Joint Affairs Administration, 160 million were allocated to buy new cars, which is one and a half million euros. If a good car like auditions or damage is 30,000, it's 50 new cars. If they're even a little lower categories like Fabija, it's about 80 new cars. The government needs to buy them in this difficult time to supply our administration. In an explanation of why this amendment is rejected, it is said that the cars now used by our administrators are over eight years old. The average Serb uses a 17-year-old car because he does not have the means to buy a new car at this time, and the government buys new cars with its bureaucrats. However, we have defined these funds for one basic sport. Every normal state primarily invests in its basic sports, gymnastics, yesterday I was talking about athletics, swimming. These funds can make four to five new gymnastics halls. I would ask you, Mr. Minister, if you accept this amendment to keep all the halls in Belgrade, since there are the best athletes and they will also know how to use them. So, from the time of the old state, we don't have any high-quality gymnasts who can represent us in the world. Here are the opportunities, Mr. Minister, for you to accept this amendment, for our athletes to be true ambassadors when they are worldly, Olympic and European competitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6047	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7, the 31 amendments were submitted by the MP Dr Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On article 7, 34, 3, and 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajević. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter from Gorica Gajević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6048	Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I propose this amendment to reduce the item with specialised services at the Republic Statistics Office by 170 million and to redistribute to the Office for Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas of 100 million and the Fund for Local Self-Government Programmes of 70 million. If we start from the fact that these two institutions are mainly meant to develop infrastructure projects in small local areas and in underdeveloped areas, we believe that the amount of 120 million in the office and 110 million in the fund is relatively small. Believe me, for large infrastructure projects that small local environments cannot bring out alone with their current budgets, these funds from these two institutions are good for them. If we start with that without local infrastructure projects, without human resources, without equipment in these local self-governments there is no economic development, no economic development, no new investors, no new jobs, and without new jobs there is no new production, no VAT increase, no income tax payments and there are young and educated people leaving these environments and we already have a lack of expert staff in local self-government to work and to develop local self-government. We propose that, certainly from this point on, these funds be transferred to these two institutions, because otherwise we will only have economic migration that will devastate these undeveloped areas. Another reason why I submitted this amendment refers to the specificity of the Svilajnac municipality and neighbouring municipalities that reduced the number of 35,000 inhabitants in Svilajnc to 25,000 for 10 years in the census. Since the number of inhabitants is one of the criteria on which we receive transfer funds and other incentives, we believe that not only have we been damaged for some 10 to 12 million a year. In 10 years, it's over 120 million. So we ask you, if not at this time, to find opportunities in the rebalancing process, to increase significantly the funding for the Regional Development Office and the Local Self-Government Fund, because local self-government with these budgets cannot survive, especially since many of their taxes have been reduced by previous laws that we have adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6049	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6050	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, this amendment suggests that the basis for the salaries of government employees at the level of a minimum consumer basket, which is now around 30,000 dinars. The minimum profit is about 20,000 dinars which we'll agree isn't enough for a naked survival either. Our proposal is to apply this basis to employees of the state administration, and through the socio-economic council in agreement with all members of the council, including the Government, is to initiate, that the basis for all employees in Serbia be minimal, that minimum earnings be 30,000 dinars, i.e. a minimum consumer basket. We believe that in these difficult times, it must be the state that saves, that luxury cars, building designs, facades, "horses", building sports halls, basketball halls around Belgrade is not what is the priority, but rather the priority of taking care of citizens in these difficult times. We are all here for the sake of citizens and our goal should be to preserve the citizens and preserve their peace and security and stability in these difficult times, not to shift the burden of the crisis to employees and pensioners. We had here today, during the afternoon and the afternoon debate over an amendment proposed by the pensioners, and the lady who proposed the amendment came to that amendment, and now she left, and she regularly reprimanded us and criticised us for allegedly not sitting here and not discussing the budget. I expect that all amendments that are social, and the DSS has proposed a lot of amendments, and they deal with social issues and the most vulnerable categories of the population, which have the least profit, should precisely be supported by this Assembly and by the government and by all those who want citizens not to bear the burden of the crisis. The state must be saving. They are not "horses" in front of the Assembly, as I said, more important than citizens, and they were not a priority to move and take care of, but to preserve the stability in our families that should be the basis for this demographic development that we all expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6051	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6052	We have here proposed to delete a complete member of the 10th because that member determines, i.e. the percentage of civil servants who can advance in their service for 2013. Therefore, this member is prescribed that out of the total number of civil servants in a state body, 20% of these civil servants can move forward in their business, i.e. to the next pay grade. We understand that the government is trying because of the economic crisis to run a restrictive budgetary policy, but we don't think that this is exactly where you should have saved, because when you have problems and when you are in a crisis, the least you need are demoted civil servants to do better, there must be this principle of motivation, and that if he does his job well, he can advance and move on to the next pay grade. It shouldn't have been limited to 20%, we're proposing erasing and don't limit it at all. Maybe next year, only 10% of civil servants are thought to be making progress in business, maybe not even 20%, maybe 10, and maybe 30. Why are we looking for a wipe? Because this simply isn't a good message for a country in a crisis like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6053	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6054	This is why this restriction for salary increases in the administration has been put so specifically, because it has been observed in analyses of previous years that even in years when salaries and pensions have been formally frozen, the mass of wages in the state administration has increased, even in the case of frozen salaries and pensions, wages have grown, because there was no control over this particular thing. If this rule of evaluation were to be applied fairly, and if indeed those who were worthy and spent not only eight hours at work, but some stayed up late in the night, come on Saturdays to work, and if they were really rewarded, it wouldn't be a problem. The problem is that throughout the administration, executives to have good relations with their colleagues give it to everyone and then we had to put some limit on how many people can get it at all, and otherwise we don't have any control over the mass of wages.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6055	Donka Banovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6056	This isn't really a replica, I understand your reasons for proposing a member like this, but I'm quite certain, even I know that such things have happened, where it's assumed that someone is making progress in the service, so change the pay grade, that wages have been uncontrollably increased, as you say in the years when the salaries were supposed to be frozen. However, this member will not solve the problem. That problem is much deeper. There are inspections here, I hope, surveillance, someone who can control it and when you've left this 20%, now and within 20%, if you don't increase control, if you don't establish some good control, within these 20%, the same abuses will continue, so there will be now in these 20% loved ones of those bosses who have given such uncontrollably, so the loved ones will get paid, and all those who are not loved and really do well, just imagine how they will be demoted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6057	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6058	This amendment is part of the amendments that we have submitted to Article 1 of this Act, where we have proposed to limit funds for material costs of 6% and to shift those funds to social benefits, child benefits, combat and disability protection, care for the elderly. The amendment to Article 1, which the government did not accept, envisioned a 40 billion-dollar savings, which was due to be transferred to social benefits. The amendment, in part, regulates that on a proposal from the ministry, the government adopts a detailed plan for the ministry's expenditure per quarter. Public procurement procedures will only be launched in cases where financial resources are provided in full to finance public procurement in the current year. What does that mean exactly? The tenders for public procurement, which are not covered by funds in the budget, will no longer be available, thus generating a conflict. We have the last case spoken of by SNS gentlemen, that the city of Belgrade has opened a tender and opened a tender for the procurement of buses, and that no decision has been made in the City Assembly on the procurement of these buses and the borrowing of the city of Belgrade for which the city of Belgrade has no consent from the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia. In this situation, we have come to the situation that the city can take over without any funding and no source of funding and a 40m-euro commitment. That is why the amendment foresees that during the year, when the sources of funding are known, a detailed procurement plan is being adopted, in order to achieve the savings that have been raised here during the debate on the Law on Public Procurement in the Serbian Parliament on the Bill's proposal, where Parliament's own president said it is possible to save 600m euros annually only from precise regulation of public procurement, which will reduce corruption. So is our amendment in addition to that, that at the beginning of the year the government adopts a detailed public procurement plan that would be made in line with the revenues under those items, so that they do not come into a situation to obtain and debate tenders for all and all things, and that these procurements cannot be covered after that, to generate conflict.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6059	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6060	With all the reserve to become boring to you and to the public, but only to end up under this previous amendment, this amendment, which is to add to Article 12, Article 8 which reads – if the beneficiaries of the RS budget, in the local self-government unit of the Serbian Public Enterprise, are acting contrary to the provisions of the ministry's position on finance affairs, automatically suspends the transfer of funds from the RS budget. This specifically means that if one of the authorities in the local self-government unit does not act in accordance with the plan that I am going to adopt for public procurement, public procurement or other expenditure that is not in line with the budget and the plan, the Ministry of Finance does not have the possibility to decide whether or not to suspend the transfer of funds, but to automatically suspend the transfer. It's just that in the state, there's got to be order, that not everyone can act like the state of Alay is running a straw and everyone's pulling whatever they want, but there's got to be someone to control it. For us, the most logical thing is for this control to be the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, which will automatically, if there is a violation of the law or transfer of funds, the spending of funds, to automatically suspend the transfer of those funds, which is a mechanism that can put us in line, and local self-government and ministries and public enterprises, which are spending state resources. Since budgets are not the means of these individuals, they are citizens' resources and these are the budgetary resources that must be taken into account and the way these funds are spent must be changed, so that we do not get into a situation where new agrobanks and new development banks and all other cases have occurred, where non-intentional spending of funds has occurred.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6061	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Bojana Bozanic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6062	The Honored Chairman, the Presidency, the Honored Ministers, fellow MPs, we have proposed that Articles 12 delete the positions 2, 3 and 4 that actually regulate the sanctioning of budget users in case they do not make payments for permanent costs, the cost of ongoing repairs, maintenance and material. We believe that by calling on a law that will only be in the procedure that we are going to talk about, maybe we will adopt it, maybe we won't, we should make sure that if we adopt it, that law will regulate these provisions and we don't think there's room here in the draft budget law, that there's no room for these provisions. Also, we should say that without the adopted law on the limitation of payment deadlines, these positions in this Article 12 will not have legal power, and when these members are adopted, they are unnecessary. The draft law on the RS budget for 2013 is quite extensive and all those unnecessary things should certainly be thrown out. Speaking of these constant costs of repairs and maintenance, I think it would really be high time to pay attention to this entry point here and that at least part of these funds, which are planned for these panels here, to sort out this asphalt, because it's really a shame that when people come here, at all times here, we don't have a nice picture and a nice approach to this building, which is this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6063	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Ranka Savic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić and Miljenko Dereta. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6064	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about obtaining public enterprises for the current year in the 2012 final account. The government predicted 50% of that to be paid in the budget. However, we suggested that it be 80%. So there's no big difference between 50% and 80%, and it's obvious that two things here are crucial. The first thing is that this government does not change policy towards public enterprises, and the second thing is that the economy is becoming increasingly centralised. So there are clear indications that Serbia is turning into a single company. So, our economy exists only by being subsidized by public enterprises. It is public enterprises that employ the largest number of workers. So, private entrepreneurship and everything else that's in the sphere of some private business stays completely in the other plan. Therefore, if public companies already pay 50%, make it 80% and can pay more. After all, however, the citizens of Serbia will eventually again pay for all the failures and all the wrong decisions in these public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6065	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6066	As my colleague already said, they had an amendment to Article 14. Article 14 concerns payments to public undertakings, public agencies and other forms of organisation, as well as companies whose founder is the Republic or in which the Republic is owned. We must admit that these attempts have been made in the past years, as have been attempted to invest part of our own income in the republican budget. People's MPs never knew what the fate of this budget provision was. We know that their own income hasn't been paid, and then we know especially from the state audit report that most of the public enterprises haven't been paying their profits. The other thing to point out is that most of Serbia's public enterprises do not operate positively, but are significant losers. Our amendment makes the difference between a number of public agencies, public enterprises and other forms of organization. A team before we noticed that there were various anomalies. There are companies that, by force of opportunity, have crossed state ownership and that the state has taken 50% of their profits, have made it impossible for them to function on a regular basis. As is the national housing insurance corporation, which is 50% of the assets that are subject to insurance were taken as if it were profits. It is a good thing that our amendment has been accepted, because defacto has been accepted by the essence of our amendment being translated into the amendment of the Assembly Committee and it is a good thing that from next year it will be a different treatment. What's wrong? It is not good that our amendment is precisely specified under which conditions a member of the law is applied or did not need the Government to have any additional intervention. Here, there remains the possibility of further red tape, as each of these forms of organization of businesses and agencies will have to seek special consent from the government, and that is exactly what Mr Dinkic is known for fighting for deberocracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6067	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 14. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Teodora Vlahović, Dr Janko Veselinović, Srdjan Mikovic, Sinisa Lazic and Ljuban Panic submitted together to the 15th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6068	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I invite you to support this amendment that we have submitted. With this amendment, we are trying to equalize all those who are employed in the state administration, in local self-government and territorial autonomy. Article 21 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia defines that before the Constitution and the law everyone is equal and that everyone has the right to equal legal protection without discrimination. The fact is that something allowed by Article 9. The draft budget law shall not be allowed for depositors and at all those employed by local authorities. This is about opening up an opportunity to establish the percentage of the total amount of salary funds intended for prizes, for special work results, up to one percent of the monthly payment fund for the month, for the previous month, etc., that I do not read any further amendments until the end. It's that a cleaning woman who works in state authorities can get a certain difference for special work results, and someone who cleans up in local self-government can't do that. You'll allow it, it can't do that. It can't be if we respect the Constitution. Let's let everyone have the same rights under the law. That is why I cannot agree, and I particularly cannot agree with the argument given with the text that the Government rejects the proposed amendment where it is said that the government's conclusions are given the opportunity to hire middle and lower professional staff in local self-government units, except the City of Belgrade and territorial autonomy bodies, the basis for calculating payouts in terms of quality and performance. What does that mean? The government's discretionary right to conclude the government wherever it wants. If we can do it with the law, why don't we do it with the law? (President: Time. ) The limit value is one percent within the pay item, and that is why I call you once again on such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6069	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6070	I will refer to the previous amendment in Article 16 we have proposed to delete Article 16 because we believe that certain unnecessary things should not be in one of these serious laws on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, this article refers to the use of the premises of state institutions, i.e. the beneficiary of the budget, both direct and indirect, and they regulate that they will pay for the use of these premises, of course, as defined by the contract, may pay other costs. However, we believe that the Law on Public Property would be better regulated. We know that there are a lot of such spaces that are rented and even at the moment a lot of budget spaces that aren't used. It's a big problem and they're in good locations. I've been reading lately, it's a cassar problem in Kragujevac, etc. I think we should deal better with these areas and use those areas that are in an attractive location, which could certainly be used to improve the development of certain local self-governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6071	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Dusica Morčev. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Nenad Popovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6072	Minister, I really don't understand why you didn't accept this amendment. There wasn't much talk about this member, so I'd like to explain this to the people who are watching. You have foreseen by the draft budget law that individual claims have arrived based on the fact that the Serbian Government, in the previous year or year to which the budget was referred, gave loans to budgetary legal persons in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that they reached claims at one point in 2013, the Government could write off, or transfer them to the capital of those legal entities. This is what you foresaw the authority of the Serbian government on the basis of the criteria that you prescribe, which requires the consent of the National Assembly. The Liberal Democratic Party has proposed that such a possibility exists, but that in any case a special law be passed in this parliament. You have rejected our amendment and say that the government has assessed that it is necessary to obtain the consent of the National Assembly, not to pass a special law. I'm sorry, it's not the government's jurisdiction to assess such a thing. The proposal for a member who exists in the draft budget law is not constitutional. The National Assembly cannot give any consent. There is no way to give consent, especially not to this request as you do. Explain what it would look like in real life. You make the decision to write off someone's debt and then what does the National Assembly do? Who gives you this consent, in what procedure, to what exactly, to what analysis? If you do not adopt this amendment, practically what you do when you write off your debts and make these decisions, it will meet the conditions of criminal abuse of your official position. I warn you, especially in these days, the active fight against corruption is very dangerous. The government cannot, whether there are criteria or not, without a special law adopted by the National Assembly. He's practically in possession of this property. The government cannot make a decision to write off the debt, to whom it will not and to seek the consent of the National Assembly. Who exactly in the National Assembly? What will the session of the congregation at which we make that decision look like? So we did not ask you to abolish that possibility, as some other parliamentary groups have asked. We asked you to pass a special law on this in any particular case. There were some regional cases yesterday. Take care of how some state-owned property is being completed in some countries around us, for example, in Croatia. I don't understand what the problem is for the Assembly to consider this law, to pass it, and then to make everything clear and transparent, especially in a situation where you announce the Law on Public Enterprises? On the other hand, you are asking the government's discretionary authority to write off debts to someone, to transfer debts, or claims to capital, etc., without a plenary session of parliament and without a legal basis for such a thing. This is not enough legal ground for what you're looking for. If you insist on such a member, we will initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court. You can't take away the National Assembly's authority. That's unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6073	Mr. Đuric, I've been refusing your time for over two minutes from an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Gorica Gajic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6074	Given that this amendment is explained in the reply of the Minister, i.e. his professional service, the DSS proposed that Article 19 be amended and that it reads as follows: "Direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources whose activity in general or mainly financed from the budget will reduce the accounting depreciation of the funds for work in 2013", as the amendment given in the original budget provides that direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources do not account for depreciation and do not show in a disputable way. Given that Mr. Dinkic's explanation and his professional service is celibate, we do not feel that we should insist that the amendment be accepted here.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6075	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 21 by MP Milan Lapčević. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Radojko Obradovic submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6076	I cannot believe that this amendment has not been accepted because it allows significant savings and allows far more efficient functioning of units of local self-government and enterprises in the territory of the Republic. What's this about? A year and a half ago, the Law on the financing of local self-government, which changed the structure of income and transferred much of the income tax to local self-government. This led local self-government to receive significant funds, and the previous government, in order to damage local self-government in response to such a law, amended the road categorisation regulation and reduced its ranking and maintenance, winter, regular and ongoing to local self-government. It turns out that the funds for neither winter nor running, nor regular road maintenance, that local self-government cannot organise it and this proposal by the government is actually the answer to the regulation that was adopted in February 2012. 900m dinars for winter maintenance are scheduled, the way of Serbia and three billion dinars, which are scheduled for the regional development ministry's division. A very complicated procedure is envisaged where local self-government will call tenders, inform the Ministry of Local Self-Government, receive funds. Within five days it is necessary that, when they receive the funds, they transfer it to the performer's account. All those contracts, tenders and all the other data should be delivered to the Ministry of Local Self-Government. There is a very simple solution to address this problem, and the solution is to continue in the same way as it was done by January 2012, to abolish this Regulation, to return the categorisation of roads as it was by January 2012. Thousands of tenders will be abolished. Several thousand bureaucratic procedures that exist between local self-government and the Ministry of Local and Regional Development will be abolished, and when conditions are obtained, we can discuss a new regulation that would otherwise regulate this issue. I find it strange that the amendment has not been accepted, because it abolishes a significant number of procedures, relieves the Ministry and allows the Ministry to do its job.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6077	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Dusica Morčev. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government has tabled an amendment proposing that new members of 24a and 24b be added after Article 24. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Dr Ruzica Igic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Bojana Bozanic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6078	Thank you very much. As for the amendment to Article 29, we have proposed to increase the amount of local self-government for transfers by five billion. I would like to point out that I have read the recommendation of the Fiscal Council and what it says in the explanation, but also to say that at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the allocation funds for local self-government for the transfer of funds were much higher than they are now, and if the budget is now, in any case, higher. I think there might be a lot of trouble. We talked about it more than once, about funding local self-government. I think it's very important that, given that the previous government has just spoken and remained in the words of decentralisation that we now need to take more care of it and actually lead to some fiscal decentralisation. What we've received in the previous period and what seems to me and now it's happening is that we have decentralisation, but only in terms of jurisdiction, in terms of obligations, but not in terms of resources. We will see this in the next period and in this health care law, etc. Of course, the recommendation of the Fiscal Council, that the reduction of transfers, that all of this be abolished for local self-government, that they do not understand why the state roads that have now gone to the local level are being financed, I completely agree that it should be so, but only if we return all revenue or most of the income to local self-government, that is to return to the territory where they are being collected. It is a VAT and inheritance tax and a gift tax, a tax on the transfer of absolute rights, etc., which is the income of local self-government. So, simply if we want local self-government to work, we have to leave them with funds that are collected in their territory, and they can't just go back to obligations, not money. We are coming into a situation where local roads are being returned to municipality management, the possibility of doctors being financed by municipalities, schools, kindergartens and other republican institutions, jubilee awards for schools. Also, the government's amendment was to be employed in cultural institutions and employed in social protection institutions for Christmas. If you don't do it, you stop the transfers. We really need to take care of essential decentralisation, fiscal decentralisation, so that local self-government can live.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6079	Thank you, Miss Christmas. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6080	Thank you. In a discussion with representatives and the Fiscal Council and the IMF, I also represented the the thesis that Serbian cities and municipalities do not receive enough funding. On the other hand, in one part of the professional academic public here in Belgrade, the Fiscal Council has the belief that municipalities get too much. In that sense, I think it is good that Professor Pavle Petrovic accepted that in December we hold a meeting with the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, because it is possible that when they look at the total global figures, they seem to have received too much local self-government with 80% of the income tax that remains, and may not be able to see how many needs they need. There's now a big debate about how to move on with it. The opinion of our Fiscal Council respects both the IMF and the next time they return to Serbia, it will be one of the topics – how to establish a criterion, what is responsible behaviour in the fiscal sense of local self-government, and how it is irresponsible and how to distinguish between those municipalities that money is passed on to them efficiently, for the benefit of citizens, and how in some way to punish those who employ excessive administration and spend on certain things that are not in the interest of development, but in the interest of the bureaucracy itself. In that sense, since I am in principle in favour of your discussion and I advocate, like you, for decentralisation, it might not be a bad idea for this internal debate that Professor Petrovic wanted to hold by the end of this year with the Fiscal Council and the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities to be held at your place in Chatetina, to host you and present everything you have told me here.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6081	Thank you. The word has a folk letter Bojan Bozanic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6082	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I would be happy to accept your proposal on behalf of my local self-government, so it would be really good if the Cheetah municipality were to host a gathering like this, where we could present together everything we've been talking about right now. I'm sure you're familiar with all these problems, but the profit tax, that's what we've had before, when it was budget rebalance, that 80% of the profit tax, which now goes to local self-government, certainly has an effect where there are employees, and in those local self-governments where there's not that much, it's quite problematic, because 80% of nothing comes then nothing. In any case, I hope that in the next period we will be able to come up with some quality solutions and that truly fiscal decentralisation will finally come and that local self-government will function in the right way. What I have long liked to say is that the basic unit, this local self-government and Serbia cannot be functional and work well unless they work well in municipalities and cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6083	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6084	In this regard, I must say that I have heard some ideas that I would be willing to accept, if there was a general consensus in the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, that the transfer of solidarity, which is now literally going to all municipalities in Serbia and cities other than Belgrade, would eventually be abolished by cities, generally or at least by those in the first group of development, and that it would be shifted only to municipalities, so maybe it would give extra, because you yourself said that those municipalities where there are not many employees, that 80% of the income tax does not make significant funds. That's why the transfer of solidarity was made. But it is possible that it should be distributed even better to those who are poorer in this way, to eliminate possibly cities from the first group of development.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6085	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6086	Tell me, how much time do I have as an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6087	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6088	Then I won't be long. The truth is, the Fiscal Council can, Mr. Dinkic, defend itself, but you haven't quite convinced what the objections to the Fiscal Council are. So the Fiscal Council is not some kind of Belgrade organization from the circle of two, as you often insinuate. It does not say the Fiscal Council that local self-government is getting too much money, but that your intervention in the legislation last year, when you rerouted about 400m euros, was not followed by precise legislative changes that would determine exactly what competences are or what local self-government is responsible for and that would ensure that money is spent in the interests of citizens, not in the interests of pre-election campaign. I think it's a real interpretation. I don't know, who organizes this meeting in December? (Mladjan Dinkic: Permanent conference of cities. ) Then this, as I would say, is an uncalled for in other people’s affairs, although I find it nice to have this attempt to agree directly on where the meeting will be held.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6089	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6090	I submitted this amendment without any claim that it would be adopted, but I wanted to draw attention to what Mr Dinkic is also doing, even regional development, and yet to some fairer allocation of non-intentional funds from the non-intentional transfer. The reasons I would have given and the parameters I would have had would have had a certain impact on the re-determination of the budget, if the funds had been distributed differently. Taking into account both the area of the municipality and the number of inhabitants and the degree of development of the unit of local self-government, we will see that Trstenik and Kruševac are in terms of the amount of non-intentional transfer there, that Kragujevac has gained a little more regardless of what was a good relationship between Mr Dinkic and Kragujevac. I think, given the demographic situation, these problems in the future need more attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6091	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Dr Ruzica Igic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6092	Article 30. The draft budget law regulates the situation, i.e. specify the mechanism to be precisely operated in the transfer of funds in different positions or in different portfolios in the Republic of Serbia's budget for Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. institutions or different types of projects in Kosovo and Metohija. I don't have to prove in particular how burdened this issue has been in previous years, in the past months, especially with very serious and supportive suspicions, that this money has been spent on purpose for years. At one point, justifiably or not, he was named in public – a patriotic robbery or robbery under the auspices of patriotism. Our proposal was that independently of the principle or principle obligation that exists in the DRI Act, that it controls over different mechanisms and this transfer of funds, that is, this means, we wanted to especially highlight the obligation. As you know, DRI control still cannot perform in full capacity and compared to all budget users. For this reason, we insisted that these funds, or these transfers, be special as legal obligations, it is possible to establish the Budget Law, to be defined as those that will be controlled continuously, or every year. Your explanation does not respond to what was our key intention, or key intensity. That's why I think it's bad that you refused this amendment. It can be very useful, simply because of the serious trauma that exists in our society, because of the separation of what is serious concern about Kosovo, serious concern about people in Kosovo, the desire, ambition, the need for Serbian citizens to help through the budget function some institutions or the survival of the most threatened of what is the abuse of these funds and from what the whole subject turns into a subject or leads to being the subject of esthetic reading, esthetic interpretations, daily political struggles, etc. I think the credibility of Kosovo's policy, Kosovo's fight, if so you will, and the Serbian Government, would be further strengthened if you would accept that further control is introduced in this way, but okay, the government has the rights, as well as the previous governments that have spent money in this way, to be satisfied with the fact that control is provided through signatures, joint signatures by the Minister-General and Director of the Office for Kosovo, Mr Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6093	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Kenan Hajdarevic, Svetislava Bulajić and Miljenko Dereta submitted to the 34th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6094	Thank you, Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Government has shown some ambition to cut the budget deficit, reduce public debt or at least keep it at some level it is currently at, and nevertheless, it has provided for an exceptional borrowing measure to the member of the 34th draft budget law. In fact, she predicted the possibility, this government, that contrary to the provisions of Article 3 of this bill, this country would be further in debt. So it's kind of contrary to the declared ambitions about it, that we'll be much more thrifty than the way the previous government acted. The government has shown a certain understanding of some of its weaknesses. The argument shows that there are certain conditions that are necessary to meet, in order to further, under some exceptional conditions, be in charge of this State. However, these conditions do not justify such a type of possibility. The government is prepared to justify itself many weaknesses, unlike how it relates to the needs of the AP Vojvodina, because as soon as an amendment to Article 21 has been adopted, where, in fact, Vojvodina is threatened by the "Vojvodina Development Bank" and it is simply shown that other people's weaknesses, other people's mistakes, and possibly some debts, cannot be forgiven or recovered. So what makes it so generous for itself, according to the province is a very rigorous condemnation. And today through the debate, when we talked about financing the province, we had very sharp replicas and very harsh reactions from Mr. Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6095	Time. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The government was submitted to the 36th Amendment, in the same text, and together by the MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Dr Janko Veseinovic. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Gorica Gajic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6096	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, Article 39. The draft budget law says that direct and indirect beneficiaries of budget funds cannot base work and relations with new persons without the consent of the finance and business ministry. Thus, it is determined that the finance and business minister will determine a procedure without which this agreement cannot be obtained. The Democratic Party of Serbia believes that this bill, namely this member of one ministry and one minister, gives too much power, and therefore too much responsibility, to think and worry about all direct and indirect users of the budget, who intend to employ new employees. We believe and the DSS has submitted a new amendment, where direct and indirect budget beneficiaries of the budget would not be able to build a working relationship without the government's consent. We also think that the procedure based on a working relationship with new persons should be done on a proposal from the finance ministry and the finance minister, with the government's consent. We consider this to be a dispersion of the power of one ministry, and ultimately a responsibility. We think that every minister should think and answer how he spends the funds he's re-scheduled for wages, and certainly thinks about whether he should be using his personnel plan to hire new people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6097	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Olgica Batić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6098	Thank you. It won't be long, since my amendment is similar to the amendments of my colleague who explained it. Only we, instead of the Government, asked that this member's proposal be amended and that it was – at the initiative of the Ministry of Business Affairs, the government can decide on issuing a guarantee to a legal person. Not with the government's consent, as proposed by the DSS, but with the consent of the National Assembly. Thank you. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6099	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dejan Mihajlov has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 39a be added after article 39a. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6100	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, this amendment stipulates that state authorities and local self-government bodies, as well as public and other enterprises, under the control of a state that exists in the absence of competition, cannot allocate advertising funds. Some analyses found that public enterprises, state authorities between four and fivem euros per year spend on advertising and all other activities. I'll give you examples -- the EPS singled out 800,000, which does not operate in competition, but has a monopoly, a company that is in debt and this budget covers its costs, has allocated 800,000 euros to finance the costs and sponsoring of a football club. "Serbigas", which also has a monopoly, sponsors football clubs and various events. We heard that Oliver Dulic, from the Environment Fund, gave 500 000 euros for only two billboards. These are huge funds that are completely unnecessaryly funded, spent on funding certain activities, which are in the role of promotion or party or individual. We believe that in times of crisis it is unnecessary and unnecessary and immoral to spend the resources of citizens, especially businesses, and "Srbigas", which has a billion euros in debt, to spend funds, which would be said to be minus, which all citizens will finance to sponsor various clubs and events. The same applies to "EPS" and to funds from the Environment Fund. The 500 000 euros could have been invested to solve some sewer problem in a village, a municipality where it does not exist. With this amendment, we propose to the Government that the costs of financing public enterprises, where there is no competition, are excluded and that only the funds necessary for informing citizens, mostly media, are used for free or for a minimum fee, and that all other costs are abolished and that these funds are re-routed either to resolve social issues, because we have here that three billion dinars are needed for all pregnant women in Serbia to have a 100% profit refund, and we spend five million euros a year just for some advertising, mere hire directors and individuals in public enterprises. I think it's far more celibate to adopt this amendment and to shift those funds into something that is much more useful for the citizens and for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6101	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Gorica Gajic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6102	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, an explanation under Article 40, or an amendment submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia, could be said to be similar to the previous one. In this regard, Article 40 provides that compulsory social security organisations and health institutions may establish a working relationship with new persons only with the staff plan adopted by the competent ministry and with the agreement of the Ministry of Finance and Business. The Democratic Party of Serbia believes the institutions of social and health insurance should and should be able to establish a working relationship based on the government's staff plan, but with the government's consent. I say, with the agreement that all resources should be controlled, because the budget is in that sense made up. It is not necessary to remove responsibility from every ministry and from every minister if he could draw up a personnel plan and know how much he needs for this portfolio. He should think about when and how much he can hire new workers. That is why we say that this responsibility should be transferred to all ministries, and that the Government, on a proposal from the Finance Minister, brings the procedure with which this agreement would be obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6103	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Borislav Stefanovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 42a be added after article 42a. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6104	It is really hard to explain why the government did not accept this amendment that I have submitted with the aim of providing quarterly reporting on budget subsidies. As the Republic of Serbia's final budget has been prepared, it should insist on providing the Assembly with quarterly targets for the implementation of budget revenues and expenditures, as well as on the quarterly reporting of the planned deficit and the level of public debt. We don't see what's at stake here. I think that there would be a much higher degree of transparency and that the government would be able to see itself here a little more often and that we know what the funds are spent on, especially in the context of subsidies that take a significant item within the Republic of Serbia's budget. By mentioning more than once that there is a lot of illogicalness, we've just mentioned some. For example, the shipbuilding for which huge funds are allocated, a loan for Republika Srpska where it is unclear whether we are in debt on the market to give funds to Republika Srpska or tourism, as much as 2.7 billion dinars. I think it is justified that the government has adopted this amendment and that we have had the opportunity to gain insight, as representatives of Serbian citizens, of what the subsidies from our budget are going to. Since I did not have the illusions that this government, by designing a budget on such unrealistic grounds, would come into contact, however, there was some hope in me that you would still meet and that you would overcome our party differences and that you would allow us, as representatives of citizens, to be able to ask you what you were spending the subsidies of Serbian citizens and what the money from this budget is specifically going to be, including money for the computerisation of the Tax Administration, and so on, where there remains a lot of gray elements that I think should be explored and citizens have insight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6105	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6106	The law on the budgetary system is prescribed as reported by the Assembly. It's reported once in half a year. So the finance ministry has an obligation to carry out first the government, and that report is delivered to the Assembly. Every month we put a budget report on our website, so it can be monitored monthly. That is why we felt that this amendment was not necessary. Otherwise, that half-yearly reporting practice was inherited from the previous period, and in that sense you had no objection when your finance minister performed that duty. Of course, you have the right to improve your opinion. I appreciate that, and that is why we will try to publish more detailed information on the website than my predecessor did, so that both you and Serbian citizens and experts can follow the detailed implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6107	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6108	You're right, Mr. Dinkic. With one difference, the website doesn't allow the possibility of this kind of conversation that we have right now. So me or any other MP can't ask the website why a certain number of money went to the Old Mountain, why so many million euros went to the Tax Administration. We can't ask a website without him answering that. I think that, no matter what you're constantly alluding to the failures of the previous government and the practice that existed back then, and that's something else now, I remind you that you're part of a coalition that promised qualitatively different things at the moment you came to power, you promised to change. That's why I don't see why you find something controversial about what we're talking about. We want to make a better situation, we want to see a clearer budget and a clearer spending of dinars. That's all. So I don't see why this was problematic. We can put everything on the website. We've had such experiences, so it wasn't enough for many, especially some opposition parties, which is why they're paying their price now. So that you and the government don't get into this situation, I think it would be good if it were a new practice and a new step. If you're going to continue to start your performances, not personally, but the government on that dogma about it you've been bad, and we're great now, look what you've been doing. And you and I are also aware that you can ride on this for a little while and then you will have to face the concrete results of your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6109	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6110	You don't have to remind me, I'm fully aware of that, but the new government has changed the style of behavior just because every last Thursday of the month almost all government representatives come here and talk openly to MPs about all the problems. So if you say you can't ask the website, you're right. You can always ask me, I've come to all the interpretations, and I've been coming since the government was formed. I intend to continue, like all other members of the government, especially considering that I know that these issues in the area of finance and economy are the most difficult and wrinkly. I'll be at your disposal all the time when the parliamentary issues are, and you'll get detailed reports once a six-month period, as ordered by the Budgetary System Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6111	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6112	I'll just take a minute, since this is the last amendment and I wouldn't bother my colleagues and you. I wish that were possible, Mr. Dinkich. However, we have, unfortunately, been faced with the fact that Mrs. Kovac, who is from your party, is taking away our word when she doesn't like something we ask. For this reason and for fear, which is completely justified, I would like to introduce a new civilized, if you want European practice to see us here more often, that Serbian citizens can see and hear from you, without fighting during your fellow ministers and prime ministers, who are able to talk here for hours, taking time away from the MPs. I think it'd be a lot better if you wanted a whole new government budget, so you could come here and tell me what the subsidies are for. I think it's hard to explain, not to me, but to the citizens of Serbia, what a qualitative change you're making by refusing such a truly beneficial amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-30-0.u6113	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Nenad Popovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear People's MPs, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, I remind you of the provision of Article 175(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly can set a day for voting on the draft budget during the National Assembly session, without waiting for the debate to be concluded in principle and in particular on the other points of the agenda. In accordance with that provision, I set out Saturday 1st December 2012, starting at 9.00 a.m., as the day for voting on the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Pension Insurance Fund for 2013, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2013, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for 2013 and the proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the National Employment Service for 2013. Thank you for your cooperation and pleasant.
