ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3749	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 99 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 119 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Given that today, following the identification of the number of MPs, it is under Article 287(2). Rules of Procedure, MPs have the right to request information and explanations on the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3750	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days there have been a lot of conversations in this House and in the media about a possible investment by the UAE on buying, or participation in the agricultural production of Vojvodina, i.e. buying land. That story, according to our estimate at the DSS, isn't clear enough. We think that even though Mladjan Dinkic said in the paper yesterday, and today there is that, he will probably give up the idea. I think that the government, Minister Knezevic and Minister Dinkic are obliged to explain to the citizens of Serbia and this House what was actually happening. These kinds of semi-information we hear is absolutely not enough to clarify the whole thing. Why are we asking this? Because Serbia desperately needs a comprehensive solution in the area of agriculture. Because Serbia does not need ad hoc measures or genius ideas of individuals, it is necessary for Serbia to have a plan for agriculture, it is necessary for Serbia to have a policy in this area and that this policy can at least be seen at this point, if these comprehensive measures in the area of agriculture are not brought to this House or to the citizens of Serbia. That's what we really miss right now. There is a fundamental question – what is it that the Serbian government plans in the area of agriculture? How does the Serbian government think that agriculture as an economic branch raises to the level that Serbia needs, which is certainly the most significant economic branch to serve as a mechanism for Serbia's economic recovery? How and in what way are we going to do this? Are these ad hoc measures, by going to a foreign country, whether it's UAE or another, talking about investment, coming up with a brilliant idea that land could be leased or sold to foreign companies, or are they invited to invest in domestic companies, or is it some comprehensive system solution that needs to solve the problem of domestic producers? Do you need to bring a series of stimulating measures? How do we reconcile these measures with other legal solutions, valid legal solutions in this country, such as the issue of restitution, and we know that the return of the seized property, that the Restitution Act foresees a natural return of property, even though this law is not good at all, according to our assessment? He rather than reconcile two things, he argues them. He argues with the citizens of the state, argues that part of the citizens of the state to whom the land or other property that was once taken away from them, and that large part of the citizens of this country who must get out of their pocket, as taxpayers, to finance the refund of the seized property. These two things cannot be settled on the basis of the idea that there must be solidarity for those citizens who have nothing to return to those whose country has to fulfil that obligation, but the state has to reconcile them in such a way as to reduce this solidarity to the least possible extent, and restore land or some other property in natural form. If we bring some measures into agriculture that are not ad hoc measures but are systemic measures, then there must also be an answer to this question – how are we going to reconcile this country's sudden need to realise its obligation to those to whom it is due, so that it will not, mainly, go into the pocket of taxpayers who did not even create that obligation and in what way will this obligation of the state be realized if we are overrun by ad hoc ideas about selling agricultural land to various companies or foreigners, and that part of agricultural land that is state-owned and what is a resource for restitution? That's basic questions. The second question is the state's relationship to legal solutions. If we have such brilliant ideas that, as I see it already giving up, then the question arises – what is the legal solution and what is the legal basis that enables us to do so? If it's an investment in a domestic company, then that's fine. Any foreign investment in a domestic company that will enter the agricultural business is domestic agricultural production. We need an answer to the question whether it's true or not? What about a certain Todorovic from Croatia, and how has it reached tens of thousands of hectares in Serbia? Did he do it through a company or himself?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3751	Please pay attention in time. Here you go, Mr. Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3752	Dear Mr. President, I would like to refer the matter to the Ministry of Agriculture. The issue concerns a set of measures brought by the government on August 30th this year to facilitate the effects of drought on agricultural producers. As far as I'm aware, a regulation was later adopted to encourage this hero and to increase the amount from the existing 5,000 dinars to 10,000 dinars by the end of this year. Also, the projected means of stimulating pig loads from the existing 500 dinars has been increased to 1,000 dinars per throat by the end of this year. According to the regulation adopted at the beginning of October, the novelty is that the applicant also completes the request in co-operation with the person employed in the field agricultural professional service, which in his presence takes into account a number of types and categories of animals on the land. I would like to point out that we in the SVM welcome this decision and hope it will be implemented to the end. It's an extremely important measure, and that's why I want to deal with this issue. This Regulation also provides that the agricultural producer can obtain a subsidy, i.e. to justify the amount he received only if he directly handed over to the slaughterhouse June or goods. Stočar must declare, under criminal and material responsibility, that the seal throats for which the application for the use of incentive funds is applied for for for meat production and that, after the end of the load, they will be handed over to the slaughterhouse. In practice, however, there is a problem with the teaching of tow throats to slaughterhouses. I was approached by several cattlemen from the municipality of Subotica, because cattlemen can't turn over their heifers directly to the slaughterhouse because the slaughterhouses don't want to, or they can't buy goods directly from them. Why won't they and why can't they? There's no answer for that, the cattlemen say. In Subotica, the cattlemen hand over the goods of "The Markets of Subotica", and the massacres of the Junad take over from "The Market". Unfortunately, this is how we lose the right to subsidise farmers, or cattle farmers, because the slaughterhouses have not directly handed over the heifers. I want the Department of Agriculture to check out how the slaughterhouses operate on the ground and check out why some slaughterhouses can't take over the herd of cattle directly. I'm sure that's not the only problem in Northboa County. I urge the Ministry of Agriculture to investigate this problem and inform what is actually going on in the field? I think it's the interest of all of us to get as many agricultural producers as possible a subsidy for both that pig and that hero. I think that if we want to preserve the number of cattle on the ground, that if we want to avoid reducing the number of cattle farmers, or agricultural producers dealing with livestock, then we need to pay particular attention to this subject. Another note to the competent authorities of the Ministry of Agriculture regarding this problem to investigate the right situation on the ground...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3753	Excuse me, colleague Fremond, I'm asking the MPs to allow Mr. Fremond to ask a question in normal atmosphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3754	I once again appeal to the competent authorities of the Ministry of Agriculture to investigate the real situation on the ground, to check how the slaughterhouses operate. I'm also interested in how state institutions do their job on the ground? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3755	Thank you. People's MP Olga Batic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3756	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have three specific questions to ask. It was first sent to Mr Selakovic, Minister of Justice. Namely, why in an emergency case, will I give him I number 4261/12, before the Commercial Court in Belgrade, and by an emergency security measure against the "Marfin Bank" waited four days before a temporary measure was taken in that case, and then apparently someone's intervention was unlawfully rejected? My question is, what is the ministry going to do about it and why has this case been walking between two judges for four days, and neither one of them either dared or did not want to solve it? My second question was addressed to Minister Dinkic, and it is said – when was the last time the control of the Marfin Bank was carried out, why in 2011, did the bank show a loss of nearly two billion dinars and does this mean that the bank is drawing money from our country? The third question was addressed to Prime Minister Dacic. Why is it that according to the criminal report filed by the Baric Attorney's Office, internal control was not carried out at the Bor Police Administration and in connection with a car accident involving police officer Perica Arsic who inflicted serious physical injuries on the two minors? My question is, how long has it been since that criminal report, and why has it been waiting so long? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3757	The word has a folk ambassador, Vesna Milekić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3758	My question is addressed to the Ministry of Culture and Information and Information Society – has the Ministry of Culture taken any steps in line with the conclusions and recommendations of the National Council for Culture concerning the preservation and improvement of conditions and the position of cultural and artistic amateurism in the Union of Amateurs of Serbia? Just to remind, the National Council for Culture has proposed to the ministry the following – to pass a law on cultural and artistic amateurism, to sign a protocol on financing the work of the Association of Amateurs of Serbia by the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The culture ministry drafted a protocol two years ago to support the Alliance of Amateurs of Serbia with five million dinars annually prior to the strategic long-term resolution of the issue on a one-time basis in order to enable the implementation of projected republican events for 2012. The MPs of the SDPS support the recommendations of the National Cultural Council for the preservation of cultural and artistic amateurism for a number of reasons. It is the only form of cultural creation in as many as 90% of Serbia's seats and as many as 70% of Serbia's overall programmes are cultural and artistic amateurism. In international co-operation programmes, cultural and artistic amateurism accounts for more than two-thirds of the programmes and contributes to the exercise of the right to the culture of members of national minorities, and such activity is not to be neglected in any way, let alone skip. This was a question I ask at the request of the National Cultural Council. Now, in my personal name and in the name of all the people who are and how interested in cultural flows and events in our country, I ask the same question several times, and that is when will the Committee on Culture finally be formed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3759	Thank you. As for your last question, I am giving notice that I will schedule a constitutional session of the Cultural Committee tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. A deal has been reached and tomorrow we will have a Committee on Culture formed. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3760	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, yesterday we had the opportunity to hear from the RS Prime Minister that this government has done more than all previous governments for a term of four years in 100 days. And I can agree with that. No RS government has so far proposed to the National Assembly a law that, as a consequence, after public sector workers vote in less than a month, they strike. In particular, it is the Law establishing maximum earnings in the public sector. The Liberal Democratic Party sharply criticised the law and did not vote to pass such a law because the law was demagogue and everything we had the opportunity to hear in this room pointed to the fact that this law should make savings in the budget by making the maximum wage and profit of 165,000, as if all public sector workers were directors or bosses and having such high salaries. We have advocated and advocated in the LDP today to reform public enterprises, to identify monopolies, not to place all public enterprises and institutions in the same basket. That it's demagogy and the fact that we don't have a departmental work done even though it was a pre-election promise in public enterprises, we already have a fact that, for example, He's setting up a man who used to keep a roaster for the head of the Colubare. What are the consequences of this law? The result is not only that the director has a reduced salary, it is okay, the consequences are the following – that workers with the lowest incomes have a reduced salary of as much as 40%, so chefs, porters, drivers today receive a salary of 18,400 dinars, which is below the republican minimum earnings. Was that the purpose of this law? Should the austerity measures only feel the most endangered citizens? If the fact is taken into account that civil servants and tenants across the public sector, the salary calculation coefficient is also included in a warm meal and regress, then we can say that cleaners, couriers, porters receive actually 9,000 dinars per month. I therefore ask Mr Mladjan Dinkic – which is a coefficient of warm meals and regression contained in the pay base coefficient according to the work of the Public Service Payments Alignment Regulation, as well as in the Art. 13th and 43rd. Law on civil servants' salaries and tenants' salaries? As Prime Minister Ivica Dacic was appointed at the head of the Socio-economic Council, who at the time said he advocated the principles of strengthening social dialogue, I expect that he will answer my next question – is the three-party body dialogue achieved prior to the adoption of this law since public sector employees strike? Is this the result of the principle of strengthening social dialogue and is this one of the austerity measures, and if it is what effects will be achieved since this measure refers to the most vulnerable workers, or will we have more socially endangered workers who will fall on the burden of the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3761	Thank you. I must ask a question to the DS parliamentary group since I have here documents where MP Ivan Jovanovic is an authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group who will be entitled to Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are to be used at this session, and I have Mr. Peter Kuntic, also registered. He's from that parliamentary group, but he's not authorized on behalf of the parliamentary group. That's why I can't give you my word. If you change, I can give Mr. Kuntić a word, and Mr. Ivan Jovanovic will not have a word. The same goes for the SNS parliamentary group. I have registered Jevtović Vukojičić Milanka, and I have also registered Mr. Vučet Toskovic. One representative of the parliamentary group can ask a question. Mr. Micunović, do we have an answer? National MP Ivan Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3762	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. Yesterday, 100 days of work of the new government were completed, and aside from the praises of the ruling majority in the media, we couldn't hear much reason and reality. Reason and reality would show, or we could tell Serbian citizens that the results of the ruling majority in the past 100 days are devastating. All institutions are collapsing, and it's more partial than ever. They are called party officials for governor of the National Bank. A negative personnel selection is causing the menacing of Serbian citizens. The results of the new government are Serbia's citizens most likely to judge in their own pocket. What they could buy last year for their salary, this year I can't. The same goes for 2010 and 2009. This best shows the results of the new government's work. The security of citizens has been compromised by the adoption of the Amnesty Act for numerous criminals. Many local and regional projects have been at risk. On November 3, 2010, the King hit a devastating earthquake. The then government of the Republic of Serbia has reacted to the anxiety of many citizens who are threatened by the earthquake. Twenty-five residential buildings on Dosite Street in Kraljen entered the procedure for obtaining loans from the Central European Bank and the European Investment Bank, in order to regenerate these buildings urbanally. There are about 400 families living in these buildings, mostly socially endangered. In early October, Mladjan Dinkic met with Mr Corbin from the European Investment Bank. The procedure, as far as the construction of these buildings is concerned, has come to an end. All the projects have been done, all the documentation has been collected. The citizens themselves who are interested took part in this. The Central European Bank approved its "grant". The European Investment Bank was on the spot. At a meeting with Mr. Korbin, Mladjan Dinkic said the government is no longer interested in helping these citizens. I'm asking the Prime Minister, Hansel Dacic, is this correct? Is that the government's position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3763	Thank you. National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukoičić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3764	President-in-Office of the Assembly, chaired by fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, citizens of Serbia, my question was addressed to the finance and business minister. It reads – can you help a car factory in Priboj find a strategic partner or otherwise through incentives and creating favourable conditions? Why? Not to be pathetic, I know there are such enterprises in many Serbian cities, but between the citizens of Priboj and the car factory is a sign of equality. The question of survival, the life in this space is exclusively related to the economic recovery of the car factory in Priboj. The previous regime, i.e. previous regimes, worked hard to make sure that Serbia ended up somewhere in Zlatibor. Namely, Pribo is a border environment. The docking is a poor environment. The settlement is the only municipality in the Republic of Serbia whose citizens, with two-thirds of its territory, have to cross the state border four times to get to their headquarters and all important institutions. The state is now participating in the subsidies of this company. The former regime has made every effort to move all important institutions, such as the court, the law enforcement authority, the National Employment Service, the forest administration and many other institutions. Why is this question addressed to the Minister of Finance and Business? From previous positive experience of the FAP worker, as in a previous period, Minister Dinkic personally engaged in the production of car factories, or trucks found on the Republika Srpska market by public utility companies. Statistics, as a science, is an inexorable game of numbers, exact figures. Demographs predict, given that the migrations of the population, and now from this area, are large, that unless this government and Minister Dinkic do something to bring about the economic recovery of the Priboj municipality, the next census of the population in the overall population structure will make the largest percentage of the elderly. My second question concerns the Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, and that is – is it also planned within what time to create a social map, as the most important document in measuring the socio-economic state of the country's population, but also as a significant parameter in the development of many strategic documents, primarily from the field of social protection? The reason for asking this question is simple. The lack of a social map, as the most significant database of the socio-economic status of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3765	Thank you. We're going back to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Slavica Savic, Dubravka Filipovski, Borislav Pelevic, Mirna Kosanovic, Cedomir Protic and Jelena Mijatovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Ivica Dacic, Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior and Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, Minister of Health, I invited the sittings to be attended by Mr. Milorad Todorovic, the secretary of the MUP, Vladimir Cucic, the Commissioner for Refugees and Svetlana Velimirovic, deputy Commissioner for Refugees. We continue our work and move on to the principle search of the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Management of Migration You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is distributed to parliamentary groups by a proportion of MPs. Since I did not receive a proposal to increase the time, I find that the time of debate per parliamentary group is the following: SNS - one hour, sixteen minutes and 48 seconds; DS belongs one hour, one minute and 12 seconds; SPS - 30 minutes; DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; United regions of Serbia - 18 minutes; LDP - 16 minutes and 48 seconds; PUPS - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; New Serbia - nine minutes and 36 seconds; Unity Serbia – eight minutes and 24 seconds; The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians – six minutes; SC – Democratic Party of Serbia – six minutes; The League of the Social Democrats of Vojvodina – six minutes and the National Minority, the National Party and Rich Serbia - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, by mutual agreement, shall determine no more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Migration Management. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3766	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure to speak to you today, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, today, to listen to all your suggestions regarding the law that is before you, which actually has its basis in the Constitution in Article 97, paragraph 17, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides relations of interest to the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the Constitution, or we will talk about a law which is within the framework of internationally standardised dimensions related to the ratification of multilateral international agreements and bilateral agreements, which are ratified precisely in this Assembly. The national regulatory framework for the law is related to several laws and sublegislative acts which are relevant for the area of migration management and I would like to remind myself that the 2009 Migration Management Strategy adopted a orientation and orientation for legislative activities, that the law was in the procedure of the National Assembly, so it was withdrawn, and that it is now complemented specifically by those segments that remember certain rights relating to missing persons and norms that regulate these activities. The government of the Republic of Serbia since July 2009, when it adopted the Migration Management Strategy, has drawn up a document based on significant data, to form a proposal formed a working group with representatives of the resolution ministries in charge of certain segments of this complex process. It was then found that there is no systematic and co-ordinated monitoring of migration flows in the Republic of Serbia, nor continued analysis required for this area. In the light of the importance of managing migration flows, it has proved necessary to determine the bodies that would pool and analyse the data relevant for the area of migration, so that the Action Plan for implementing the Migration Management Strategy for 2011-2012 in the framework of the institutionalisation of competences for the collection and analysis of data on migration and flows, as a measure, provides for the adjustment of the legal framework for the creation of conditions for the work of the Commissioner for Refugees, as the authorities responsible for the collection and analysis of data on the scale and flows of migration and the monitoring of migration trends. One of the most important solutions provided for by the law is the establishment of new responsibilities of the Refugees Commissioner, which relate to the area of migration management and the establishment of that Committee for Refugees, established by the laws on refugees, continues to work under the name of the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration, in accordance with the section laid down by this law and other legal acts. The law regulates the responsibilities of the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration and provides for the Commission to carry out tasks relating to the proposal of the Government of the Goals and Priorities of Migration Policy, to propose measures and activities to the Government to encourage positive effects of legal migration and to combat those illegal, monitoring, implementing the migration policy measures, providing the authorities of the State Administration of the AP and the units of local self-government of data of importance for the development of strategic documents from the area of migration management from the work and the development of an annual report to the Government on the situation in the area of migration management. The government, in fact, had no such insight into the migration flows in Serbia until this moment and until this law began to apply. The Commissioner shall carry out tasks relating to the definition, proposing and taking of measures for the integration of persons, which they have in accordance with the Asylum Act, the recognised right to shelter and reintegration of returnees under the Readmission Agreement, improving the conditions of life of internally displaced persons, while in rural areas, proposing a programme for developing a system of measures towards families of foreigners who are illegally staying in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and proposing a programme to support the voluntary return of foreigners who are illegally staying in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to their country of origin. The Commissioner shall carry out tasks relating to the integration and analysis of data and indicators for the management of migration, the reporting on immigration and immigration, the development and regular update of the migration profile of the Republic of Serbia, the establishment of a single system for the collection, organisation and exchange of data, the training of persons performing tasks of importance for the management of migration, the establishment of co-operation with members of the European migration network belonging to all EU members and Norway, as well as other tasks of a certain law. Also, as the issue of missing persons from refugee and populational, internally displaced persons, as the most numerous migration circles in the Republic of Serbia, one of the biggest problems we have been facing for many years, this law created the basis for keeping records concerning missing persons, bringing another new element into this law. This is exactly the newspaper compared to a large number of MPs who had already had the opportunity to get to know the content law. Secondly, the law provides for the education of the Migration Council by the competent authorities in the AP unit of local self-government to carry out advisory tasks related to the management of migration in the territory of the AP unit of local self-urpage. A representative of the local self-government executive body, the Centre for Social Labour, the Police Administration, the Employment Service, the Trustee and the representative of the municipal, or city administration, shall enter with the aim that the competent authority in the AP unit of the Local Self-Government Council of Migration may decide to participate in the work of the Migration Council as well as the representative of the institution responsible for health, education, representative of the Association for Matters of Matters in the field of migration, as well as other persons performing tasks of importance for the management of migration in their territory. The proposed members were prescribed that the Migration Council, at the request of the Commissioner, submit a report to the Commission on the measures taken and other issues in the area of migration management in the territory for which it was established. In addition, the law provides for training and the implementation of persons performing tasks of importance for the management of migration and thus enables individuals to deal directly with these issues in continuous education, which guarantees and certain quality of work. Third, special attention is given to human rights of migrants, both through the principles on which migration management is based and through the envisaged measures for their integration, reintegration and improvement of living conditions. The law should contribute to the use of the positive potential of migration and the second-term economic and demographic development of the Republic of Serbia, thus reducing the potential negative effects of migration that actually flood us when we think about this problem today. Fourthly, this law provides for the establishment of a single system of collection, organisation and exchange of data which is essential for the management of migration between the authorities of the state administration, which are within their scope responsible for certain segments of migration. Such a unique system is based on co-operation mechanisms to address the problems stemming from insufficiently synchronised and coordinated actions of the state administration authorities involved in sieve migration management is certainly needed by Serbia. The proposed law also addresses the issues of availability and public information that are relevant to migration issues. In this way, it is possible to raise public awareness of the importance of migration, reduce xenophobia and improve tolerance towards diversity. To make migration policies more effective, one of the mechanisms to measure and activities related to the area of migration management implemented at the level of local self-government units is to encourage funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This law created an opportunity to support local self-government units from Serbia's budget, if needed, through the financing of projects in the area of migration, which are in line with the plans and strategic documents of the Republic of Serbia. Given the numerous challenges facing migration, the number of issues related to different categories of migrants, as well as the need to bring the legal framework into line with the EU's extended legal assets in the area of migration, this law responds to the current lack of rules, the unity of coordination within the migration management system in the Republic of Serbia. Through the establishment of a single body, the unification and integration of the collection, organisation and exchange of data and cooperation in the area of importance for the implementation of the migration policy, it is possible to look at the entire migration picture of the Republic of Serbia and to address the unwanted consequences of a specific type of migration, the objectives of the migration policy of the Republic of Serbia are effectively achieved, with one word providing comprehensive and continuous management of migration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3767	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3768	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, this is a very important law and I am very sorry that in the Assembly there is not a minister of the interior, who would represent the government in the principle of defending this law, but I see that there is a health minister, my colleague Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who is not even a doctor of general practice, a doctor of general practice, so he cannot be an expert in general practice. However, I will look back at this law as the need for regulation of this matter, but I will also look back on the aspect of writing this law where some have overlooked the fact that we do not live in an ideal society, in an ideal state, that there are certain good wishes here and in the principles and in the members, which are not in line with reality and are not in line with what is really happening in Serbia. When we talk about migration, they can be on the general agenda, but they can also be on the inside. Maybe I'd like to deal with it the most. In Article 3 of this law, we are starting from the principle of respect for family unity, but above all, the measures in the area of migration management are proposed and implemented in order to preserve family unity in accordance with the approved international contract and laws. This article would make sense of how simple it would be, and if it wasn't systematically solved, or if it were systemically solved, since we all know what kind of situation it is, and I, as a representative of the right-wing party, know well, and I'm in contact with many people in the middle who deal with the management of the white plague, by increasing the birth rate, I know what the problems are in preserving family unity. We all know that family unity and in general the biological, spiritual and economic recovery of Serbia can only be achieved through a strong family, and the foundation of such a family is in the country. What are the conditions of life in the country? What are the conditions of a young mother's life, a boy? Is it possible to prevent the migration of people and the desolation of Serbian villages if we do not solve these problems in the most valid way possible? The law cannot, I'm convinced, be a set of regulations, unrealistic regulations, it must monitor the state's system order and the state's care of all aspects that allow for the improvement of living standards, the improvement of living conditions in every environment. Article 4 of the law says migration management is being implemented by contributing to the balanced and planned economic development of the Republic of Serbia. As for equal regional development, you just praised Article 15, and we'll get to it, he's working on the damages of Article 4. Equal regional development implies greater autonomy for local self-governments, means the possibility of budgeting with regard to construction, investment, employment in local self-government. So, there can be no law on the management of migration to be a mere statistic, it can be a starting point in order to regulate Serbian society and to ultimately prevent the emptying of the entire east of Serbia, the whole of Veljkova Krajina. We no longer have a working population in the country, and even if we do, we have very few. In Serbia, these are the members of the 3rd and 4th because one is extremely connected, over the past ten years 500,000 people have died more than they were born. One Gornji Milanovac disappears every year. These are frantic data that Serbia should be dealing with. I don't know what wars we've fought in the last ten years, so many people wouldn't be gone. And that working-age population, the desire for knowledge, education, life, goes into large areas, above all, Belgrade. Three-quarters of the total Serbian capital is turning in Belgrade. So, just in a circle of two. In previous years we have executed, it is not the government's fault, it is the fault of all previous governments, the tycunisation of Serbia. We have legalized, I mean political parties, through our connections and our benefits, the dirty cash flows of the 1990s and made it possible for people who were in Milosevic to become enormously rich and to rule Serbia. I hope this is the beginning, and I look forward to it no matter what opposition party we are, the fight against the largest tycoons in Serbia and against those for whom the entire public of Serbia knows how they did business. Let's remember the underdeveloped parts of Serbia. I was almost in Alexandrovac and Koserić, there will be new local elections in a year. Three years ago, since the local elections in Koseric were repeated, there were no ministers and representatives of the political party, some were coming by helicopter, which did not come to this small place to make a deposit on Koseric, to try to charge as many votes as possible. This year or next May, when elections are again called, Koseric will again be the subject of a promise to people that he will worry Serbia and the government about undeveloped environments. How worried are they gonna be? Until they leave Koseric. We had an election in Arangelovac. All the political parties, I'm afraid, have fallen into one trap to accept the rules of the game that have been built years ago, that it is only important that the vote that is received by the time the voters leave the polling station, and then both the promises and the people of that place are forgotten. In Arangelovac, you will remember, there were no elections so long ago, two and a half years ago, some representatives of political parties to Serbian citizens gave voters shoes for a vote. If someone votes for a particular political party or if they promise to vote, they get one shoe. When he goes to the polls and paints his own voice and later comes to the party headquarters and shows who he voted for with a picture from his mobile phone, he gets the opportunity to wear shoes. As much as Serbia cares about the system solution of the problem, about local budgets, how much it cares about allowing those people in local communities to handle their problems in the best possible way. Law No. 5 says Serbia will insist on improving relations with diaspora and Serbs in the environment. The director of the Diaspora Office and Serbs in the region have not been appointed yet. How will we cultivate better ties with the diaspora when we know that the diaspora is mostly children of political emigrants, if the former president of Serbia calls their fathers quinslins? This is a very important issue, and this is the attitude of the Serbian state towards people who should invest, towards people who should help the mother in every way possible, in order to get us back up economically. You know how much money comes from the diaspora. Instead of creating a fair state, because we know how the diaspora was treated in the previous period, we know that our intellectuals, our diaspora writers, were killed because they disagreed with the system that killed Serbia. Instead of asking for forgiveness from those children for the accidents that hit their parents and themselves, we treat them as traitors, as people who have to come to Serbia to fight for their rights, to fight to get their property returned to them under the Restitution Act, which was brought to them in a way that was never returned to them or that they had a hard time being returned, to fight for the rights to rehabilitate their fathers who were killed just for reasons that they thought otherwise. Article 8. The law says that refugees seek integration in society. I don't know what the situation is about collective camps, what conditions these people live in. We can't offer a chance like this to destroy children who have the help of parents, the environment, the whole society from birth, to get a chance to get a chance at education and employment. When we look at some of the shows that we see, let's say, in Kim, how are we dealing with the means that have been allocated to collective centres and refugees, then we simply ask whether this country is ready to face the legacy of the past, whether this country is ready to help the most vulnerable or whether it is a polygon to achieve the desires of the richest, most influential that they have used and used since the 1990s to make them even happier. I was in a campaign in a village in Zlatibor and a man who worked in "Having Belgrade", a peasant, although he was not while living and working in Belgrade, was fired after 20 years of work. So this is what I was saying at the moment when we represented the European Serbia programme in the elections, and this is a criticism of both the governments, each government since 2000. After his dismissal, he decided to return to his homeland, try to solve his existential problems there, however, he does not exist for this country, for reasons he does not pay pension and social and has no right to grant. So, it doesn't take a company that he worked in for 20 years, it doesn't need a village, people like that are wiped off the list that this country needs. We are now coming to Article 15, which I looked back on earlier when my esteemed colleague of the Minister of Health, who defends the Migration Management Act in the Assembly, which says, beware of the absurdity: "In order to encourage the implementation of the measures and activities necessary to achieve the objectives of migration management in local self-government units of the Republic of Serbia's budget, plans can be financed by the authorities of the local self-government unit". So it's centralism again. Once again, the local self-government unit will draw up a plan and send it to the ministry, so the ministry will decide whether to finance the plan or not. We know how we are, and we know who used it in particular, we know how it has been used in recent years, how the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget have been used. The mayor who has his minister in Belgrade, he has the opportunity to develop his municipality, so now we have devastationed regions with regional centres that get everything and who get a chance for their citizens just because in the next election one or another political party will bring a large number of votes. It is unacceptable and it is all an indication that we need to change politics as soon as possible, change strategy, pass system laws, not deal with gloves. This law, I repeat, is not rusty, this law is also needed to comply with EU standards and to monitor migration processes in Serbia and beyond. But when I talk about any law, I can't help but touch other laws, other areas, other passing desires and reality between government work and what's called life. After the presentation of the other representatives of the government, I will eventually complete my exposure for the time I have left. Thank you so much, so we'll still talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3769	Thank you. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3770	Dear President, the distinguished Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, the respected Mr. Cucic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the existence of adequate migration policy and the management of migration flows is of great importance to the Republic of Serbia. In the process of defining the basic directions and policies in the area of migration, when it comes to Serbia, we must especially bear in mind and specificities that our country is facing. I would remind you that Serbia faces different types of migration: external, internal, immigration and immigration, legal, illegal, migration of highly qualified and low-skilled workers. A particular problem in Serbia is the fact that there are a large number of refugees and internally displaced persons who are the result of forced migration during the war conflicts at the premises of the former Yugoslavia. Serbia today, ladies and gentlemen, is a country with the largest number of refugees and displaced in Europe. There are also an increasing number of returnees who exist under the Readmission Agreement with EU countries, and on the other hand, the number of citizens who have requested asylum in our country is increasing. Of course, there is also the current problem of fake asylum seekers who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are seeking asylum in EU member states. I would stress that the issue of adequate migration management is a matter that must have and has great importance when it comes to the process of joining the Serbian state of the EU. In this process, special attention is paid to the visa regime, integrated border management, illegal immigration, evasive internally displaced persons and asylum seekers. That is also the assessment of the situation in this area, which was presented in the European Commission's latest progress report on the Republic of Serbia, and I will quote: "When it comes to migration management, there has been no progress. The number of illegal migrants passing through Serbia and whose final destination the EU has increased. About 9,500 illegal migrants were registered in 2011, compared to 2010, when they were registered around 2,500. The 2012 Action Plan for the Implementation of the Migration Management Strategy, adopted in May of this year, requires further improvement in coordination between the bodies responsible for implementing the migration strategy and the adoption of sufficient funding." The application of the Readmission Agreement between the European Union and Serbia continues without significant problems, although capacities and resources for the integration of returnees under the readmission process are very limited. During 2011, 5,150 people were returned to Serbia from EU member states. A new bilateral protocol for its implementation with Estonia has also been concluded under this agreement. The main countries from where those faces come back are in a decreasing number of Germany, Sweden, Switzerland, Denmark, France and the Netherlands. Generally speaking, migration management in Serbia continues to make moderate progress. When it comes to asylum, no progress has been made. A quote from the European Commission's report on the progress of the Republic of Serbia has been completed. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, therefore, are the fact that there are a large number of adopted and strategy in Serbia, which she spoke of in her opening statement, Minister Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, but also a large number of laws and sublegal acts that regulate certain migration issues. I would remind you of the migration management strategy and the Action Plan for the implementation of the 2011-2012 strategy. Other strategies related to specific issues of migration policy have been adopted, such as, I would like to remind you, the Strategy based on the Readmission Agreement, the Anti-Irregular Migration Strategy, the Anti-Trafficking Strategy, the Integrated Border Management Strategy. What needs to be insisted in the next period, I think it is more effective to implement the activities and achieve the objectives set out in these documents that are, above all, derived from the strategies that I have mentioned. In this context and towards this end, the common implementation policy of adopted strategies and the coordination of institutional bodies responsible for migration should be ensured. Systematic monitoring of migration movements should allow for a serious analysis of migration potentials and monitoring of the implementation of migrant rights, as well as the impact of migration on the development of our society. Therefore, the adoption of a law that would regulate migration management, if today is on the agenda, is of paramount importance to the state of Serbia. The position of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia is to make efforts to adopt such a legislative and legislative framework in the area of migration management, which will ensure respect, in particular, for European standards and the application of EU legal flows in this area, but also to start from respecting our own specificities as a society and as a state. I also remember respect for human rights of migrants, facilitating the integration of endangered categories of migrants into our society, developing international co-operation, non-discrimination, facilitating family integration. It should also ensure effective coordination within the institutions themselves and between the institutions responsible for both creating and implementing migration policies. In view of the approach which is subject to the regulation of this law, we urge that as soon as possible, the work of sublegal acts necessary, so that this law can be brought into practice and implemented, above all, in the interest of those citizens and those persons to whom it should apply, as well as to ensure the necessary capacity of the Commissioner for Refugees, having regard to the competence of that commissioner, and which is also established by this law and some other laws. It is also important, and one of the most important activities, I would say within the competence of the Commissioner for Refugees, emigration, making and updating the migration profile of the Republic of Serbia, because we consider the Social Democratic Party of Serbia that this bill should highlight the importance of the document, or closer to regulating the content, procedures and deadlines for adopting it. This is particularly important when it comes to the fact that the migration profile is an instrument of a state that needs to combine all information on migration and thus enable the formulation of an adequate national policy. At the very end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it would be celibate to define precisely the obligations of all the authorities, in particular the state administration, which are involved in the single system, in order to ensure their effective coordination. I thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3771	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3772	Thank you, Mr. President. How important migration management is for a country and its inhabitants, we have the opportunity to hear from the mouth of European Union politicians these days. So we have a chance to hear, and I'm afraid we'll feel it on our skin. Because of a large number of so-called fake asylum seekers from Serbia, the European Union is threatening to re-introduce visas for entry into Schengen countries, threatening to remove Serbia, or the Republic of Serbia from the white Schengen list, or that we will be on the black Schengen list again, although Serbia's citizens are somehow in the European Union, we have a constant feeling that we are on some of their black lists. The European Union is asking Serbia to introduce more control when it comes to issuing passports, and to carry out so-called. preventative stopping of false asylum seekers at the Serbian border. However, according to the current laws of this state, according to the Constitution and according to the many conventions we have signed, such a thing would be a direct violation of human and constitutional rights. So, this state has no right to refuse anyone to issue a biometric passport if that person meets all the conditions and this country has no right to stop someone unless, of course, it has all the neat papers, to stop and not allow them to cross the border. Unfortunately, it is true that at least I could read it in the press, and you probably, when it comes to issuing passports, that there was a network of civil servants who sold personal documents, that's what I read in the papers, like all citizens. So, sales of birth certificate, sales between other and biometric passports, but I think we're serious enough that this network has been broken so far. However, when it comes to preventing so-called fake migrants, it is the European Union that can prevent it from being much more effective than we are. How? The databases that the Schengen countries have are very good and are much more precise than our bases, i.e. the person suspected of being a false asylumist, so a check is carried out, the person can be stopped at the Schengen border, not on Serbian. Their border control can put that person back in the country of origin, that's one thing. The second thing is that the European Union, all Balkan countries, and Serbia can declare, and we once had such a status, that it can declare a country of safe origin. When you have that status, then persons seeking asylum in the countries of the European Union are subject to a certain, very clear procedure and in a very short time they are refused asylum, in some countries even in 48 hours, and the fact that you refer to Serbia as a safe country of origin will begin to discourage all those who intend to go to EU countries to seek asylum. So they will simply not be stimulated because they know that in 48 hours they will be returned to Serbia, or a country of safe origin. But now I'd like to say a few words about this bill. As Omerovic said, Serbia is a country that needs quality and good management of migration, above all that Serbia and the country of origin and country of transit, as well as a country where many people have found their refuge. Over the past few years, the overall revision of the laws in Serbia, relating to visas, asylum, border management, illegal and illegal migration, has been executive. So we have a lot of new laws. Also, we have a lot of so-called. national or sectoral strategies. A colleague of Omerovic also listed several of these strategies, and I will mention that we also have a strategy for managing illegal migration for the period 2009-2014. Now that we've got a problem, so-called. false asylums, I don't think we've been able to apply that strategy much in particular. When it comes to this bill, it is very important that we all have in mind, and I suppose we know that there is also a strategy for managing migration, which was adopted in 2009. The process that led to the development of this strategy lasted long and was very thorough. I know that, above all, the Commissioner has hired a large number of experts from various and domestic and international organisations and that there has been a rather good strategy. Of course, which makes sense, that strategy has also served as the basis for this bill. Well, if it's been spent so much time making a strategy and preparing this law, I think the final result, or the proposal could have been much better. My MP group and I feel that the law is not good and that, first of all, it is very general, that some of the provisions are not accurate enough to simply show that they will not be able to apply themselves. But it won't be the first such law. As for the objections, I'll start in a row. The first remark refers to Chapter 2, where the principles for the application of this law are listed. Let's just say, it's very strange that you're the promoter, that he left out the principle of respect for human rights and non-discrimination in the first place. That's strange because this law right now refers to perhaps the most vulnerable and vulnerable groups of people that exist in this country. Then you left out the principle of security of the state border and the security of citizens, which is also bad for us. He'll talk more about it later, my colleagues from the Parliament Club. So, the regrets of abandoning very significant principles. The next thing I could say is that we have certain phenomena and that you've offered a bad solution, it's that we have a lot of sectoral national strategies. I think it's six or seven for this area. The observation so far is that these strategies exist each for itself, that there is very poor coordination between these strategies and institutions. When it comes to managing migration, then you have to have one unique and comprehensive approach. So you can't chop something up. Also, there has been quite an uncoordinated and poor co-operation between the authorities and the institutions involved in these areas so far. It's always or often there's a result that you don't know who's in charge of any problem, so when you don't know who's in charge, then you don't even know who's responsible for any problem or you have overlapping that more institutions or organs are in charge of the same thing, and then again you don't have a quality problem solution, because when more institutions get involved very often, the problem stays unsettled. It seems to me that the problem of lack of coordination between institutions and authorities was wanted to be resolved by putting the Commissioner for Refugees at the heart of this whole story or the management of migration. It's an impression when this law is read. It is true that this Commissioner will be called differently. So it will not only be the Commissioner for Refugees, but it will also be the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration Management. The Democratic Party of Serbia and I are rather skeptical of this solution, not because we believe that people who are currently working in the Commissioner have no experience in different forms of migration, they have experience, but I do not think they have the administrative capacity to do this kind of diverse and complex work. So, just because it's going to be renamed, it's not enough. We had such cases when a new law was introduced, so that some body would get some other powers, however, then the law states that a reorganisation or new systemization would take place. It also states how many new people will be employed in the Commissioner and when the sublaw will be passed. So I'm talking about the bill, and there's not a word about it, about a new organisation, that is, the reorganisation of the Commissioner has later on in the arguments, but the argument is not the law. It's not the law at all. It can serve an MP when he prepares the discussion to read. So, you're giving so much serious and new jurisdiction to the Commissioner, and there's not a word about how and if it's going to be reorganized at all. Also, there is absolutely no word in this law on the need for financial resources, nor on the work of the future Commissioner as such. The next remark that once again applies to the generality of this law is where you predict the establishment of the circuit and local migration councils. So it's absolutely undeniable that every local self-government is specific to many things, even this. It's an undeniable need. But here you're saying that local self-government can form advice. As soon as you put "can" on, you don't usually do it. Again, there is no word on who will finance the work of these local migration councils. Don't say anything, and don't say anything about what's going on with the city's refugee commissioners. Mostly every local self-government has this refugee trustee. So you didn't predict their place at all. Whether they will be abolished, whether they will become part of the council, but how they will become part if local self-government decides not to form a council on migration. I'm skeptical here, and I'm saying that local self-government will avoid forming those tips. They will again rely on the Commissioner, given the experience of forming some other advice. For example, in the Gender Equality Act, you also had a recommendation that local self-governments form local advice on gender equality. I think it's only done by 20 local self-government, because the same law says it can and doesn't have to. You had in some law that local self-governments formed advice that would take care of human and minority rights in local self-government, and you have maybe 15 municipalities that did it. So this story about these local migration councils is a story that's not gonna happen. Of course, here you are talking about the need for permanent education and training of people who will be engaged or who are already in these affairs, and yet here the Commissioner is being put in the centre. I said, I know that people in the Commissioner really have a lot of experience, but aside from all the other powers given to the Commissioner, they will now be in charge of everyone in matters of training and the need for permanent education. Again, we have no word on what financial resources are needed here for this matter, for permanent education. That's what it costs. Chapter 4 of Articles 16 and 17 discusses a unique system of collection, organisation, exchange of data, or the creation of a single database. Anyone who deals with this area knows that it is very difficult to obtain accurate information. It was best to go to the Refugee Secretariat site by now, so here you have some information, go to the UNHCR website for Serbia, and here you have some information. So it's like a good idea. But you can't see here again, it's a very serious business, it runs a single database in some area, the law doesn't show who's going to be in charge, who's going to be responsible, who's going to be in charge and how it's going to be financed. What I think is very sensitive is who will be responsible for the protection of personal personal data. So, one more idea, but I don't know how it's gonna come to its realization. We've submitted a lot of amendments, so when there's a debate in particular about them we'll talk about them. I'd like to say a few words about refugee status and internally displaced faces. Nearly 20 years after the start of the first armed conflicts on the ground of the former Yugoslavia, in 2008, UNHCR placed Serbia among the five countries in the world, with a long-standing refugee crisis and a country with the largest number of refugees and displaced persons in Europe. So we have a fifth place in the world, and first in Europe for that problem. After 21 years, we still have 86,000 refugees. There are 85,000 refugees from Croatia. The biggest problem and factor in the existence of this long-standing refugee crisis in Serbia is the unpreparedness of Croatia, all present and former politicians from Croatia, to address in a satisfactory way the problems of returning, individual rights of refugees and expelled Serbs from Croatia. I will remind you only of the problems, the return of property and household rights, the severance of labour, outstanding pensions, the return of possessed agricultural property to their rightful owners, the abolition of secret war crimes charges that exist to discourage people from returning to Croatia, or their homes. Such Croatia, which violates all possible human and property rights of the Serb refugees, and its former citizens have been assessed as a country that has met all European standards, all EU standards, so that they plan to become a member of the EU in 2013, regardless of whether or not they have moved to solve the problems of refugees from Croatia in Serbia. Then, as a highlight of the news, Croatian President Ivo Josipovic, current and former President of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic, received in Brussels a European medal for tolerance in reason of the award, says that it is a recognition for contribution, quote – Tolerance, honesty, moral courage and reconciliation in Europe. It is true that they spoke sweetly of reconciliation and tolerance, while at the same time they did nothing to resolve the biggest refugee crisis in Europe. I'm just afraid that some of our futures, since we have a sign that some new political tandems are emerging, I sincerely hope I'm wrong, because if in four years another tandem is from the Balkan spaces that receives that medal, about reconciliation and tolerance, then Serbia is really ill-written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3773	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3774	Dear President, Honored Minister of Health Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, honourable fellow MPs, I will start by talking about some figures that talk about how many refugees, displaced persons and perhaps asylum seekers we have. The proposal for a migration management law is adopted by an emergency procedure, reportedly to prevent the consequences of an increased number of migrants in Serbia. We know that we faced the first larger number of refugees during the 1990s wars. For almost 20 years and more, they have lived in collective centres, and some have managed well. We know that in 20 years they have failed to integrate and that the state of Serbia accepts them. She accepted them by giving them collective accommodations, but these people also need better health care, and they primarily need a job that they can't find for 20 years. Our people who migrate to EU countries, primarily to well-developed EU countries, go there because of economic difficulties and because they cannot find a job here. The European countries are bringing them back, with these people who will be returned from the EU also having major problems because we may provide them with accommodation, but they primarily need to secure work. I think it's the only and biggest problem in this country that people don't have a job. Migrants who come from other countries, which may be in our country in transit, we know that there are already several asylum centres, in these centres are facing great inaccessibility, because various mentalities are mixed. I think the state should make a strategy on what we are going to do and with refugees who have been living here for 20 years, who have integrated into our country, with those who will come from the EU, and with everyone who is here in transit. Nearly 300,000 refugees and internally displaced people live in Serbia, which is the highest in EU countries. I'll talk about the territory I come from. So I can say that in Novi Sad, the status of refugees in Serbia has 660,000 people, and 215,000 have internally displaced status. The number of refugees is stable. I can't say it's not a good form to introduce the commissioner and what he's going to run the statistics on, but we already have numbers and statistics made. We know how many displaced refugees are in Serbia. That's why I'm saying that the number of refugees is stable. However, the number of internally displaced people has increased since the event in Kosovo and is now around 215,000, of which are 12,000 in Vojvodina. In Vojvodina, there are two collective centres of refugees, one of which is in Kovin, but this year it should be closed. Over the past five years, more than 5,000 permanent solutions have been provided through the strategy for refugees, and the funds spent from the donor IPA budget, amounting to 48m euros, of which around 15m euros have gone to Vojvodina. These data are also needed by a commissioner who will continue to perform the statistics, since March 2003, to focus on these data and continue to work. Returnees arriving in Serbia under the Readmission Agreement are for the time being the most endangered category, but it can be said that they are threatened because we as a state do not provide them with any social protection, we do not give them any normal everyday life. Since 2006. The readmission office accepted more than 8,000 returnees, and during 2011, the number of asylum seekers increased to 3,000. The problem is that the commissioner doesn't have the capacity to frame all the people who ask for that help. The current law provides for the responsibility of the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration to be extended to the management of migration and assistance to asylum seekers, and a single migration database will be established, which will be able to be used by all state authorities. I just wonder if the funds that are provided here, two million dinars and 500,000 dinars for training these councils and the people who will work in this Commission, in my opinion, is really not enough, because, as predicted here, all the funds will be spent mainly on their education, and for the funds to stay these immigrants and refugees, for these collective centres, I need to worry about local self-government and AP Vojvodina. I don't know where the funds will be provided for those purposes. Also, the Commissioner will work on measures to improve the conditions of life internally displaced, while people are in rural areas. And here I'm interested in what funds it is, will these funds be allocated from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from which or from which ministries, will these funds fall again to local self-government, will they finance the stay of those persons in those collective centres in their territories? It is also proposed to returnees under the readmission agreement, which is under this law and the biggest problem, which is unable to provide accommodation for themselves, and we know that they will most likely not be able to provide accommodation for themselves, immediately upon their return will be provided accommodation in the temporary collective centre, as well as food and necessary clothing and footwear. They can be placed in temporary accommodation for 14 days, with the possibility of an extension if it is an old, disabled and sick person or they will be moved to social protection institutions. Temporary accommodation, food, footwear and clothing security Commissioner directly or in co-operation with local self-government units or with the organization of the Red Cross. In my opinion, the Commissioner may not be the best formula. He will be placed in Belgrade, in several offices. People will come here again, work from eight to three, four. I don't see much involvement in the fields of these commissioners and these councils, which really isn't what the law predicted, so I can say that this bill, in my opinion, is not well-formulated, it's unarranged. You don't even know who's going to finance the advice, or how these tips are going to be educated. It's just that LSV is not going to support this law because of these indiscretions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3775	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3776	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Minister-in-Office, the Commissioner-in-Office, we believe that the adoption of the migration management law is very important for the Republic of Serbia. Namely, current migration issues and different categories of migrants, as well as their large number, certainly require this issue to be regulated legally, in order to fully regulate the monitoring and management of migration in the Republic of Serbia. We are aware that in recent years migration has been present in a much larger scale than in any other country of Europe, which further suggests that it is high time to round up the systemic approach to this issue. The process of systemic forms of migration policy, launched by the adoption of a migration management strategy and an action plan for its implementation, is now continuing with the adoption of this law, making the Republic of Serbia well on its way to achieving existing objectives and priorities in this area. The adoption of this law will affect different categories of migrants and will contribute to the improvement of their human rights through the envisaged measures for their integration, reintegration and improvement of living conditions. We must not forget that over half a million refugees have arrived in the Republic of Serbia in time, more than 250,000 internally displaced persons, when more than 1,600 asylum seekers have gone through the asylum centres in Banja Koviljaca and Bogovaji in the last two years, and in the same period more than 10,000 people have been returned to the Republic of Serbia under the readmission agreement, which is more than enough to indicate that the comprehensive and continuous management of migrations for which the Republic of Serbia has defined this bill as the best solution. We consider it a good solution that the law provides for a Commissioner for Refugees, as the law itself says – a body that performs professional and other tasks relating to the management of migration, given its experience and activities in this area so far. The Commissioner for Refugees was a special organisation founded in 1992 by the Refugees Act. Since 1992, the Commissioner for Refugees from the Republic of Serbia's budget, in co-operation with international agencies and organisations, governments of individual countries and local self-government has implemented a programme of permanent solutions for refugees, and since 2002, in line with the National Strategy for addressing issues of refugees and internally displaced persons and internally displaced persons through various projects. I would only list projects that I know that the Commissioner has realized: complete construction of housing units, partial construction or only construction, purchase of rural houses with a garden, assignment of house installations, assistance in the form of a package of construction material for the completion of start-ups, projects of assistance in the form of economic empowerment of refugees and internally displaced persons, construction of social housing facilities in protected conditions, adaptation and re-design of collective centres facilities in institutions for the accommodation of old persons, adaptation and extension of the capacities of social protection institutions. All of this shows us that the Commissioner is a good solution and because of his previous experiences on these issues, that possibly in the coming period, through some legislative regulations, which will be defined by special documents, he will do a job of great importance for migration flows. The legal arrangements in the area of migration management will allow for the monitoring of the needs of migrants and the determination of migration policy, especially the measure to improve the conditions of life of internally displaced persons while they are in rural areas, we can conclude that this will be for a very long time, to provide housing for temporary accommodation for persons who are granted the right to shelter, as well as temporary collective housing for returnees under the Readmission Agreement, which are not able to provide accommodation immediately upon return, especially if we have in the coming years that they will also be signed with a large number of European countries, the Readmission Agreement, will probably be a large number of returnees on that basis. In this way, the Republic of Serbia additionally provides for the promotion and protection of the proper human rights of these persons. The special impact of the law will certainly be given to families of foreigners who are illegally staying in the territory of the Republic of Serbia by proposing certain systemic measures for the voluntary return of foreigners who are illegally staying in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in their country of origin. Also, a good solution provided for in the bill is the establishment of a single system for data management and exchange and information, allowing for accurate and complete data, information and statistics related to migration issues. I think this is a good thing, because through local self-government and through the refugee trustee, one central database will be created to regulate the normal management of these processes. This is also important for the regular update of the migration profiles of the Republic of Serbia and for the analysis of trends and timely planning through a series of appropriate measures and activities to manage migration. What I would particularly draw attention to is the advice on migration, whose local education provides for this law. The provision of Article 10 of the Law regulates that the competent authority in the autonomous province and the local self-government unit educates the migration council to carry out advisory tasks relating to the management of migration in the territory of the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government. It is also arranged that, with the composition of the migration council, which is governed by the Education Act, a representative of the executive body of the local self-government unit, the president of the municipality or mayor, or a member of the municipal and city council, and in the previous period it was regulated to be mayor or president of the municipality. I think it's a good solution that gives it the opportunity to be a member of the city council, or municipal council, which achieves some relaxation with the mayor, or the president of the municipality, that a certain resolution person will be in charge of these issues. In addition to members of the executive bodies, local migration councils are planned to include representatives of the Centre for Social Labour, Police Administration, Employment Service, Commissioner for Refugees, representatives of the municipal, or city administration, as well as other persons of the city, or municipal institutions, depending on the need of each local self-government itself. Through the work of local migration councils, it is possible to look at the problems that autonomous provinces and units of local self-government face in this area in their territories and to define and implement the necessary activities and active influences to address the problem locally. It is one sign that it is not centralisation through the Commissioner, but the Commissioner serves to manage a comprehensive database. During the past period, a small number of local self-governments have been educated councils on migration, although it has been recommended by the Commissioners and has been constantly insinuating the Commissioner on this. Local self-governments that have educated the migration council are where and where better to resolve the status of refugees and internally evicted persons. The issue is now regulated by this law, which will oblige local self-governments to act in accordance with the law, i.e. they are obliged to educate the migration council. It seems to me that someone has said that they can educate, however, Article 10 speaks, I will quote it – in order to do advisory work on the management of migration in the territory of the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government, the competent authority in the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government educates the circuit, i.e. local migration council, in the text below, the migration council. So, it can't, but, in fact, based on this, I appreciate that it has to, or that it has to. The provision of Article 15 provides for the promotion of the activities necessary for the implementation of the objectives and measures in the area of migration management in the local self-government unit and the budget of the Republic of Serbia to finance the plans set out by the competent authorities of the local self-government unit to be in line with the governance strategy. This is nothing new, and so far local self-government has had the opportunity to place their plans and their projects towards the Commissioner and depending on the amount of funds provided by the Commissioner, it was mainly to meet all the needs of local self-government. Given the dynamics that follow the area of migration, it is very good that this law provides for the provision of Article 11 of the Law that persons performing tasks of importance for the management of migration, the Commissioner provides training and training for the performance of migration management operations. In this way, a trained and professional frame will be provided that will best be able to identify the basic needs, ways to help and protect the rights of migrants. In the same way, it also enables the monitoring of trends, the adoption of new standards and improvements in this area, and therefore optimal conditions to spot possible problems and parts of their overcoming. In particular, the scope of this law is reflected in the provision of not only mutual co-operation between the authorities of the Republic and local self-government, but also co-operation with European and international institutions, thus achieving the necessary harmonisation in this area. The only objection is to the provisions of Article 19 of the Law, which stipulates that sublegal acts implementing this law will be adopted within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law. Personally, I think that time should be shorter, but that's the last deadline, which means these sublegal acts can be brought much earlier. So, the last deadline is that 12 months. As I have already pointed out, Serbia ranks first in Europe for the total number of displaced and refugees, as well as for the length of refugee status. The fact was defined three years ago by Antony Guter, the UN High Commissioner for Refugee Affairs and Dr Jovan Krkobibic, vice-president of the Serbian government for the organisation of an international donor conference, held in Sarajevo in March, with the goal of collecting over half a billion and 584m euros, respectively, in order to secure a roof over the head for some 30,000 refugee families of the Western Balkans. It is meant by Serbia, Croatia, BiH and Montenegro. Of these raised funds, 335m euros would be added to Serbia. In this way, Serbia would permanently care for about 17,000 most vulnerable families in the next five years, i.e. about 45,000 people who escaped during the 1991-1995 war from BiH, Croatia and all remaining refugees still living in collective centres. Serbian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy Dr Jovan Krkobibic received a delegation from the Development Bank of the Council of Europe and the European Commission these days, as well as the head of the EU delegation to Serbia. The discussion was dedicated to the realisation of the regional housing programme for the most endangered refugees in the Western Balkans, precisely in connection with this donor conference and these funds. This whole project must be completed without excessive administration, effectively and responsibly, because of those whom these funds are intended for, and are intended by countries not our own, but countries that are donors to these funds. The head of the EU delegation to Serbia, Vicent Dežer, stressed the need for the project to be evenly represented throughout Serbia's territory, including local self-government, as well as shortening and administrative procedures, so that refugees arrive at a permanent housing solution as soon as possible. This is particularly important for local self-governments that have been burdened with the refugee crisis. For the sake of illustration, I'll just point out that Nis has suffered a major refugee crisis. In the 1990s, Nis has accepted about 24,000 refugees and internally displaced persons, which is 10% of the population. It must be admitted that this is very difficult to solve, these problems, without systemic problem solving. However, other centres in Serbia also face the problem, with a large number of refugees or internally displaced persons. Finally, I would like to conclude my point of view that the specificity and diversity of issues in the area of migration management, points out the need for a single legal act to be put in place to lay down the basic governance mechanisms in this area, which will just be achieved through the adoption of the migration management law. After this debate and debate in particular, with the possible improvement of the law through amendments, the PUPS Group will support this law and vote for the adoption of the migration management law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3777	Thank you. You have received the resignations of Parliamentarians Ana Sekulović and Maria Blečić as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Budgetary Budgetary - Immunity National Assembly for the purpose of considering these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2). The law on the selection of MPs proposed by the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same law, establishes the termination of the mandate to the MPs. In accordance with this, and in accordance with Article 88, point 2. and Article 3. and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative - Budgetary and Delegated - Immunity National Assembly, finds that the term of office ended, before the time on which they were elected, by the MPs Ani Sekulović and Marija Blečić, on the day of their resignation. In accordance with the Law on the Selection of People's Ambassadors, the vacancy of seats in the National Assembly will be filled. We're going back to work. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3778	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this law reflects the work of this government and this law has a technical character. It is actually a continuity that has been started since both government and parliament were established. We have laws that create some form of government work, and it's common to all of these laws that have no reform potential. In fact, this law, which is on the agenda of parliament today, has about 20 members, three of which are transitional final provisions. So, we have a law that even in its explanation states that it is overly adopted because of a mechanism to monitor migration flows, possibly to analyse the impact of migration on the development of the state and the like. It's about a single law of technical nature. When I gave this criticism to this government, I don't think of you, Madam Minister, and I think you remember very well as the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the previous session how much this parliament worked, how much law has passed through this Parliament and how much legislation has been passed. You are very well aware of how much Parliament is bound and his work for the government's work. So, as far as more laws have been passed in the previous session in that time period than 100 days of work by the previous government in relation to this parliament, I think enough is a picture of how today's government works. The migration law has been late for at least 20 years and after 20 years it comes in this form with this content presented in the draft law. Simply, we cannot talk about migration without looking into the context of the past, in the context of the 1990s, what happens to migration in the presentation and what is expected in migration flows in the near future. When we talk about the 1990s, we simply can't forget the boom of migration that arose, and that's migration and forced migration that was, in fact, the result of wars that were waged on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, wars in which Serbia allegedly did not participate. During the 1990s, several hundred thousand young and highly educated people left this Serbia. During those years, Serbia received a very large number of forced migrants, people who came unhappy, poored and frustrated due to all these wars. So this is the migration that has a strong impact on Serbia's development and which is very burdensome today, because Serbia today has 6% of highly educated citizens as it was 20 years ago, and with this trend of migration of highly educated citizens, we cannot expect the growth of highly educated citizens in a percentage sense even though there is an ambition to increase that percentage to 40% by 2020. It's simply incomprehensible where this positive ambition comes from, only if future diplomas are not planned to be sold in kiosks, shops and on the streets. So it's not a state strategy when it comes to what to do with the economy, the economy, with the development of this country if we really want to absorb that migration that's a huge burden for this country. When we talk about the present and migration, we simply cannot lose sight of the fact that visa liberalisation as it was the subject of 2009. In 2009, however, it was one positive topic where we were expected to get the visa liberalisation we had received as the crown of the former government's efforts to normalise relations with Europe and as one proof that Europe recognized in Serbia its will to modernise. Today we are again in a situation where there is a great danger of losing that white Schengen. It is unacceptable to place the main responsibility on the poorest part of the population leaving the EU expecting to resolve its existence. When we talk about the poorest citizens of this country, I think about the Roma and Albanians who are economic asylum seekers in the EU and who expect some social assistance there, aid that apparently their country has not received and have not recognized the possibility that they might eventually get that aid once. So we must not lose sight of the fact that this country is doing very little, that it pays too much attention to the discrimination of this poorest layer in terms of the lack of attention that is directed towards the possibility of their existence in terms of the fact that it ignores the fact that these people are mostly on social margins because of their nationality and their economic status. When it comes to false asylum seekers, it is simply too much of the word – a lie because it is about economic asylum seekers above all, about people who are existentially and socially endangered. How does this government feel about solving the problem after she has concluded the Readmission Agreement? By adopting and proposing this law, it proposes some mechanisms to control migration flows, and how will this country deal with all of its citizens returning under the EU readmission agreement from the EU countries to Serbia? It is quite cruel that the way that this law provides, that people who come in a forced manner are not actually supported by any kind of support but will be in these collective centres for a few days maximum and then they lose any chance of integrating into this society, and integration was not talked about even when they were leaving, and apparently the government has no ambition to integrate that population in any way. It is very dangerous since if something more serious is not taken, far more serious than the adoption of such a law and procedure, Serbia will indeed go back significantly in terms of European integration because it sends a message that it cannot, will not, has no capacity to develop this country, that it is economically stronger and that it is not to this extent socially ready to save its citizens from the great misery they are in, so they are forced to go abroad for social assistance. So these are all serious issues for this government, and that is why they should really be in addition to the existing laws, which deal with refugees, which deal with the way the country handles all immigrants and those who leave, and those who come to this country, that some much more serious and much more modern strategy must be made. When we talk about the future of migration, we can't forget the fact that we haven't solved any previous issues, which were started there in the '90s, that somehow we refuse to complete some of the obligations that exist today and that we are preparing some state policy towards Kosovo, which is still a secret. It is this policy, which is so shortsighted, which has brought us into this situation, that it does not give any hope that tomorrow we will have no problem with increasing the number of people who are forced to move to Serbia. It is very important that when you discuss such serious issues as migration, put things in the right context, clearly distinguish what is desirable from what is realistically possible and mark the goals of what is what you want and mark the ways in which you count to justify these goals. In this law, we cannot find goals or resources, and the reasons why this law is passed are discriminatory. Simply, this law cannot bear everything that is necessary for us to make a serious policy in this country when it comes to what to do with citizens of Serbia when we have a 25% unemployment, when we have such a high-indebted state, when we have such a high public debt and when we have a problem with the European Union, a white Schengen and when we have a problem with stopping reforms in Serbia. Therefore, we cannot support this law, for this law lacks many more qualities that are needed to complete it. We cannot support the purely technical proposals contained in this law, because they are problematic in terms of one policy that should be guided against all those who presently pose a problem in terms of asylum seekers originating in Serbia. Therefore, this law will most likely be passed, given that you have a majority in this House. This law will mean nothing, will not bring any improvement, will not be a point that will show that Serbia has serious policy, serious intentions and that it really wants to be modernised. All the laws that have been on this House's agenda so far confirm this conclusion. When I compare this government's work to the previous term, no matter how hard it is for me to say, I think there's a big difference. Although we have had a huge problem with the work of the previous parliament and the work of the previous government, comparing it with today's situation and today's work, I don't think we can be optimistic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3779	Thank you. The word has a national emissary Jelena Travar Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3780	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the proposing representatives, is very interesting that we are discussing this law today. I would agree, on the one hand, that he is relatively general, but on the other hand, I have no reason for the current mistrust that sublegal acts will not regulate certain questions within a certain time limit. At the moment our country faces a depopulation, when globalisation makes its own and pace of exchange of goods, services and people become the basis of the functioning of every society, it is certainly necessary to discuss the management of migration. The adoption of this law is one of the preconditions for the successful management of migration in terms of ensuring effective coordination in institutions. What they have shown so far is that there is no synchronised co-operation, both horizontally and vertically, of institutions dealing with this issue. The Republic of Serbia, as my colleague has already mentioned, faces all sorts of migration: external, internal, forced, voluntary, legal, illegal, high-quality migration, immigration and immigration. Unfortunately, there are still around 100,000 refugees in the Republic of Serbia, at least according to the data I own, I see that our data differ, and probably sources, and about 200,000 internally displaced persons who need support in achieving their rights. The new challenges for the integration capacity of the social and economic system in the Republic of Serbia are certainly returnees under the readmission agreement with EU countries. A total of 5.150 people were returned to the Republic of Serbia under a readmission agreement in 2011, which speaks of an effective implementation of a single readmission agreement with the EU. In the first six months of 2012, a total of ril7 requests were sent to Serbia and 3,212 were positively resolved. A total of 685 requests were received during July, August and September by the German authorities, from which 632 were resolved positively. Of course, when we talk about false asylum seekers, Germany, Sweden, Belgium, Luxembourg and Switzerland are the main destinations. I don't happen to mention this today, because this is one of the topics that has been going through our public in the last month, it is a question of taking Serbia off the white Schengen list. As a citizen of this country, I would not want it to happen to me or to my fellow citizens, regardless of the opportunities they have to travel or not. Believe it to be an extremely bad feeling when children from our country have no opportunity to visit another country and to understand how the system works in some other countries. It's one of the basic ways to expand our perspectives, to realize that there's something different and we're doing everything we can to improve our country's system and work. I must stress that there has been a significant decline in the number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who applied for asylum in those countries during 2012. I would be selfish if I did not commend the operational measures carried out by the Ministry of the Interior in co-operation with other competent authorities and inter-resorial co-operation and coordination, such as daily communication between the Republic of Serbia border police and the border authorities of neighbouring countries, if this is one of the aspects of our country's integrated operations with countries in the region, I certainly commend it. Also the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, the Border Police Administration, in co-operation with the Customs Administration, is continuing to monitor passengers on their way out of our country. I must also say that one of the most important motives for seeking asylum in the EU countries is excellent social giving. Am I looking forward to it? No, not at all, because I believe that responsible policy enforcement implies and a responsible relationship with my fellow citizens, and I think that we should do everything we can, each and every one of us, to improve the position of citizens in our country. I must also point out that Sweden and Belgium have provided certain answers when it comes to false asylum seekers and that response is obtained within 15 days and some form of ban is being imposed on people who falsely enter those countries over the next year to five years. I don't think I would agree with some of my colleagues who have said that only EU countries should exercise that control. I think the most significant and best result is given when we work together, when there are measures like this, like Sweden and Belgium, when we carry out continuous control, and at the same time we do everything in our power to improve the standard of citizens. Also, what is looking forward to is the news that Germany is planning to put Serbia on the list of countries of safe origin, which would significantly speed up the procedures for resolving asylum requirements and I think it would reduce the need and desire of some citizens to leave this country. On the other hand, the adoption of the Migration Management Law creates a prerequisite for establishing a single system for the collection, analysis, processing, organisation, exchange, storage and data protection. Is this going to be an easy job? No, I believe that it will not and will be much more difficult for those who need to implement it, from inter-resorial co-operation between the ministries, to the Commissioner for Refugees who, by adopting this law, gets another jurisdiction, which is the management of migration. Also, I think it takes a picture of Serbia's overall migration, because I, unfortunately, come from a municipality that belongs to the order of the most underdeveloped municipalities of Serbia, which is the municipality of Zitiste, and it's sad to see that your municipality is empty, that border areas and areas are extinct, and I couldn't say that this country is doing anything to prevent this from happening. There are measures, for example. Implementation of the National Employment Service, these are active employment measures, where new employment is further stimulated in the most underdeveloped areas, as well as measures involving certain populations, i.e. giving priority to refugees, internally displaced persons and Roma in employment. Can we do more? Sure. What I would like to praise is precisely the understanding, i.e. giving of the significance of the specificity of each local self-government, i.e. what we say - decentralisation. It's interesting that some colleagues are for it one day, the next day they're not, but well, I'm on the point that I am for this because I think every local self-government has its specifics. In a different way, he faces the issue of migration, and I think that every local self-government needs to have the opportunity to say what's best, to determine whether the returnees or those who came here because of the wars they've been, integrated into society. It's not a simple process, and I know it won't be easy for local self-government, because this is a kind of jurisdiction that's being added to them. I certainly commend the measure and the possibility of doing education and to provide support for both people at the local and regional level. I really think it will take time to do data collection both vertically and horizontally, so that they can be placed in one base and made available to some extent to state authorities and other specific public measures. What I commend is that it has already been said that funding will be found in the Republic of Serbia's budget in part to implement the plans, because I am sure there is no way that all municipalities will receive enough funding to implement all their plans. I also point out that no one has ever defended local self-governments from their budgets from the resources necessary. I'm also aware of the fact that even local self-governments don't have the resources to do it on their own. Also, the precondition for establishing co-operation with members of the European Migration Network and Serbia's strategic definition of EU accession is something that makes me happy, and I think it's very good that once in Serbia we have a migration profile of our country, because this can tomorrow lead to a more balanced regional development, towards establishing targeted measures, to support certain measures, might consider some to sanction in some ways. Maybe it's not good that there's no sanctions or measures, what happens to local self-governments that don't form this body. There may be local self-governments that don't need to do this, but I think they're very rare. I think it might have been more specific, but it's a good thing we're even talking about this today. Therefore, the URS parliamentary group will support this kind of law and I believe that, as MPs, we will have certain reports on the implementation of this law, because the role of parliament is also controlled, not only to adopt the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3781	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3782	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will support the Proposal for a Law on Migration Management and after a principled debate and debate in particular, ready to hear better solutions in a dialogue in the Assembly, with the aim of getting to the best in order to pass such a law. Of course, in voting day, we'll vote for this bill. Given that this is a principle debate, I will, in principle, look at a few questions, first of all to the question – why this law, why is this law important and what does this law offer as an answer? All the other details when there's a debate in particular. First, I don't think this law will solve all the problems of migration, but we think and strongly support it, because it creates a basis, creates a normative basis for what is most important when it comes to migration, which is the management of migration flows, the management of migration flows and everything that is a prerequisite for such a thing. We believe, our parliamentary group, that this law is very important and the importance of this bill stems from the importance of the issue of migration. We think migration is a very important socio-economic issue, very complex. We believe that it is particularly important for Serbia. Why? When we look at all the kinds of migration we have, it's all about Serbia. A short time ago we heard, I would like to repeat, both external and internal and forced and voluntary and legal and illegal and immigration and immigration, refugee, displaced persons, outflows of high-quality people and population depopulations in certain parts of Serbia, and not to count further. It may not be a waste, in confirmation of the importance of the issue for Serbia, to hear a few data from the authorities. There are 66,000 people living in Serbia with refugee status and 210,000 internally displaced persons. That's why we're the first in Europe and the 13th in the world. Ten per cent of the current population did not live in the Republic of Serbia 20 years ago. More than 250,000 refugees have gained Serbian citizenship, which is the biggest integration process in Europe. In recent years, the number of asylum seekers in Serbia has increased since 2008 from 77,000 to 3.134 in 2011. When I say that, I mean all those problems that this issue carries with it, especially for local communities. The total number of people in Serbia has dropped by 240,000 over the past ten years. We just heard from the readmission agreement that a return of 5,150 people was made last year alone. If we add that the most numerous group of migrants is actually made up of the face of Serbian origin, where data are flexible, but it is a few million, between three and four million, if we add that the Republic of Serbia has stepped into a deep demographic age and belongs to countries that are at the top of the oldest population, if we add a reduction in the relative share of the young population in the total population and an increase in the number of old age, which also means a reduction in the number of active working age population, which should ensure that the growing number of working age population is maintained, these are strong data that confirm the importance of migration, especially in Serbia. The second question, either on the other hand, or at the same time, the Republic of Serbia, facing these issues, the government of the Republic of Serbia has shown its readiness, capacity, will, in the sea of these problems, which it now has in Serbia, and this problem begins to resolve. That's where we support the government. At the same time, the Republic of Serbia wants to join the EU, which is a strategic definition for it, and that means accepting adopted European values and standards throughout the whole range of areas, including this one. As far as the area is concerned, this means that strategic, legal and institutional Serbia regulates the area of migration. On the third hand, we have a situation, with these problems, with this need to join the EU, that there is no uniform and coordinated operation in Serbia of all the bodies dealing with migration issues. Many in Serbia, many ministries, many offices, many dealing with these issues, but what is missing – there is no unity of systems and coordination. I will stick to these three reasons, which is why it is important to pass the migration management law. The proposed law is now offering an answer to that question. Of course, not in the sense that it will solve the problem, but it answers that the main issue, when it comes to migration, is that we have information, that we have a single data system, that we have one body that will deal with it in one place, to get to the main goal, and the main goal is migration management, to manage migration flows. Of course, we all have different data in multiple places depending on the type and type of migration. This law offers an answer asking for it to be collected in one place. Why does it matter? Why did I go from behind? A unique system of collection, organisation, analysis, data exchange is the first prerequisite, the first condition that migration can be managed successfully. There is no good decision, there is no good policy if there is no data, if there is no clear, accurate and valid data. The law is just paying attention to this and putting it first, that is, in the first place. The law also determines which organ to gather, collect, which in one place will put all that information into a pile. It sets out to be a commissary, so far for refugees, and now for refugees and migration. There's an answer to the question. The Honorable Minister gave enough information about this work very brilliantly and clearly, as always, so I don't have to talk further about what the commissioner is supposed to do. But one thing's for sure, it's an organ where all the data will be merged, and when we have all the data in one place, then it can be offered to the government clear migration policies, measures, activities, etc. In order to manage migration, the law is very clear, in terms of protecting human rights of migrants, giving principles on which migration management is based, all of which must be respected in order to manage migration in one successful way. It highlights the principle of respect for family unity, the principle of equal, plan and economic development of migration management, the principle of strengthening links with diaspora and Serbs in the region and, in the broadest sense, the principle of respect for confirmed international agreements and the rules of international law in the area of migration at all. It's the subject of the law, and it answers those questions. Of course, it creates conditions for migration, migration flows to be managed. The Socialist Party of Serbia is convinced that Serbia wants to manage migration, and this also shows through this bill, in a comprehensive way, modern, European, of course, with respect for the country's specificity. What do we consider migration management? In the first place - clear migration policy, and secondly - planning the management of flows. That is the essence of the whole story, for which it is necessary to provide information and coordination for all those who deal with these issues. That's what this law is all about. The law answers these questions, and we are convinced for these reasons that the Government will start to solve this problem successfully, as well as anything else that puts it on the agenda. Each of these types of migration is a particularly difficult problem for Serbia. Serbia is suffering a very large social -- economically, as I would say, the consequences of all this because it is primarily a social - economic issue. Major burdens suffer Serbia, and especially in these conditions of the global crisis, the reality of each of these possible issues to be addressed, but that does not mean that the government should sit down, cry for it, but as it has begun, to offer answers to the problems it faces. As it offers these days, and especially the MUP, I want to support it, it offers answers to everything Serbia needs to do when it comes to visa liberalisation, where it is a white Schengen, to preserve it as a major achievement that Serbia has done, and especially the MUP. Of course, given that what needs to be done, what it can do, and there has been a few words before, and I want to join it, putting Serbia on the list of safe countries, because Serbia is a safe country in which no political freedoms are threatened, enhanced border control, bilateral co-operation with other countries. First of all, the requirement to direct contact with these countries affects the resolution of issues and, of course, the solution as soon as possible, thus reducing the potential of social assistance, which is the main reason. In this regard, we have in mind that the resolution of fake asylums as much as we have pressure to increase, data show that, except in Switzerland, in all other countries, the number of fake asylum seekers has been reduced. We respect, respect that problem and feel that it should be solved. Given that solving the problem of fake asylum is primarily an economic issue for Serbia's economic capabilities, not as I would say getting off the bus at the border, etc. some other measures, drastic, repressive, etc. Of course, we are aware that there are policies, we are aware that there are countries that want to put political pressure on them, and even countries that have no problems with refugees, or asylum seekers, as we are aware that this is also what Serbia is for political plantings, etc. What is clear is that we support the ministry's and government's efforts to address all that it can do in the best, democratic way, as well as these issues to Serbia. Not to be too long, the main issue is the management of migration flows, and everything else is in the function of creating preconditions to manage them. The bill does not resolve migration, but decides how to ensure that migration is managed normally in the best possible way. We will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3783	Since we no longer have a registered president, or authorized representatives... National MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3784	I'm sorry, but our MP's group has applied neatly for an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3785	I'd like to ask that just because you signed up doesn't mean you're gonna talk. So every time you see the previous speaker ending, and you're up as a parliamentary group, please sign up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3786	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Commissioner, Mr Cucic, a co-worker from the Refugees Committee, has today come to the agenda of the Law on Migration Management prepared by the previous Government and in something amended, in certain provisions of the amended section, has come to a session that we have today among other points of the agenda. Maybe he could've been on the agenda before. Certainly this is one of the important issues and certainly this is an issue that deserves attention, which deserves serious concern from the state, and above all given the fact that in the last month, it has escalated the problem of asylum seekers, false asylum seekers, but in the last year, we have also had a serious problem with asylum seekers in our country. So, the aim of this law is to legally regulate migration, the position of migrants, emigrants, the overall process of managing these processes, and it is certainly important that this government has recognised this problem, and that, in some ways, by fulfilling the European agenda, we will solve at least a normative one area, perhaps not ideally, any law could certainly be better, more content, perhaps some areas could have been better done. But this matter is regulated by almost all European legislation, and all EU countries have at one point faced the problem of migrants, i.e. the problem of a person who, due to a difficult economic situation, because of a difficult political situation, because of persecution, needs to settle down in an area that is calm and who may give them an economically better perspective for them and their family. Maybe we're not a country that can offer immigrants who come to our country some better conditions, we haven't even had that issue settled, so the immigrants simply walked from town to city without a solution, and they've managed to survive, and in some places it's been a serious problem. As the DS said at the beginning of this parliament and this government's mandate, it would support all laws that go towards resolving certain issues, and especially when it comes to pro-European laws and especially when it comes to laws, and not above all, which was in some way brought by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, the government in which the DS also played a significant role, in which it created one policy of the pro-European course, and resolving all open issues, with co-operation with the surrounding nations, and with all the significant factors in the world that exist political factors. No, unfortunately, as the current government now does without clear orientation, without a clear goal, creating confusion among the people, creating confusion in the international public, because simply this government has some cycles in which for 10 days, 15 days is a great lover in Russia, and 15 days in the countries of the eastern world, I mean an Arab world rich in oil, and some time in European countries. Pre-contracts are signed, agreements are signed, and when he returns home, it is seen that these are just nice words, that there is no substance behind it. I am, of course, pleased to have the former president of the Assembly here today, with whom we have really worked very nicely, but I am sorry that he is not a resolute minister here, or Prime Minister, who I think this area would belong to, but he certainly has important jobs today, and in that sense we can justify him. Of course, we can't justify everything that's done in the last 100 days, because his place as prime minister doesn't seem right to us, it seems to us that at the head of the government he's in a manner of man who doesn't have a clear concept and who doesn't realize the goals he's given, in my very dear reading, which is the opening statement that he took when he took the oath, or when he entered into office. But to go back to the Migration Management Act, because people sitting here from the Refugee Commissioner are certainly not responsible for everything the current government does, so I would refer to some of the questions raised in this law, which could experience both praise and criticism. First of all, it is good that this law will be passed, and it is a good thing that this law too regulates the issue of the position of emigrants, migration, which, by this law, is in a way, perhaps not quite legally precise, or perhaps it does not belong there, but some issue of the situation of displaced persons has been resolved, the care of those persons. Let's say, I very much like the fact that the principles in this law set out the principle of strengthening ties with diaspora and Serbs in the region and it is said that the management of migration will be achieved by improving the position and protecting the rights of members of the diaspora and Serbs in the region, preserving, strengthening and achieving ties between members of diaspora and Serbs in the region with the Republic of Serbia. This is a very important provision and it can be seen, for all those who have been watching us for the last 100 days in this area, that this was written at another time, at a time when the government of the Republic of Serbia took care of Serbs in the region and Serbs in the diaspora. Why? For the basic reason that the government abolished the Ministry of Diaspora and Serbs in the region and the Ministry of Faith, which in itself may not be the subject of criticism, since the government went for rationalisation. The rationalisation was done by making one, one could say quasi-ministration or something that should replace the ministry, but would not count among the ministries. Offices have been formed for four areas, not to list them, for minorities, for Serbs in the region and religion. Three offices were appointed directors, they started working, even though they formally have an institutional framework. I don't know if the MPs know, but the public should know, too, in Serbia and Serbia, that there is not yet a certain director of the Diaspora Office and Serbs in the region, or director of the Faith Office. So, the area for this government is completely irrelevant, for it no matter four million Serbs. We have a legal vacuum in which Serbs in the region and Serbs in the diaspora are put out of power. So, no council from the President of the Republic of Serbia, you, Madam Minister, know very well, since you were a member of that council, does not work. So, President Nikolic has not formed the council yet, has not called for a single session, although under the law he is obliged to convene these sessions every three months. No council was formed, no office was formed, no ministry, existing laws in the area are not applied. So, this provision in this law that stands is good, but it is evident that it was a provision from a time when the president of the state, when the entire government was counting and taking care of these people. It is also good that this government, which is left in this law, remains a provision to provide for immigrants, i.e. migration, has been tasked with taking care of them by the Commissioner for Refugees, who will now be the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration. It is an institution that has capacities and human resources and all other resources, that is, an institution that has worked quality over the past four years. It could not be said for the previous period prior to the takeover of the current commissioner, Mr Cucic, and the duty to work so well, but it could say that it has taken a number of steps to close collective centres, that it has been in good co-ordination with the Serbian government and the Serbian president on providing funds for refugee resolution in the area of the Republic of Serbia. A donor conference in Sarajevo, or a donor conference in Sarajevo, was held during that period, providing funds for the permanent disposal of some 70,000 of the most vulnerable persons in the Republic of Serbia. The Commissioner has the potential to implement this process to the end, of course, with the direct implementation of this programme by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as far as I know it is a realiser. However, I am not sure how much the Commissioner will have a real partner in the government of the Republic of Serbia, which, I think, does not care too much about this issue, even though I have not seen it so far. So, it's a good thing the Commissioner's got to worry about it, because I'm afraid that this issue would generally be lost if it were given to a new body, because, as they are now formed by the party criteria of the body, the bodies of the institution, I'm afraid that this issue could not be solved. I say, the Commissioner is also qualified for this, has resources and can create new planning documents, some of the planning documents have been done in the meantime. It is also good that, truth be told, only one way is to talk about measures for the integration of persons who are asylum seekers, who are staying in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's a very serious problem. Some colleagues talked about it today, didn't say what it was supposed to mean. So we're in a situation like Canada 30 years ago, in which countries were on the American continent 100 years ago. We are in a situation where some countries were in the past, that we simply have ends that die. We have faces that Serbia is kind of a promised paradise. We must have measures that may be in areas where the local domicile population lived, where some other people will live and want to deal with agriculture or I don't know what. We must have such measures, because the simple world today is a world where people move from one area to another. It is certainly important that we have integration measures and those people who might be doing some work in the country, but also some people who may have finished colleges, who are no longer safe in the countries where they live, and who may be in some containers right now and who don't know what to do next, but this is a necessary strategy. I don't think this one attitude is enough and that a strategy should be developed there. I know it should be done by the Commissioner, but this is necessary to do so as soon as possible and to take some priority measures. It is also good that the Commissioner will collect and combine information concerning immigrants and persons who intend to leave our country or have already left. However, there is a serious problem here. I thought I'd bring it up eventually, but I'll bring it up right away. The funds for this purpose are not provided here. So this job requires serious resources. So it's not a million or two dinars, it's millions of euros. Creating databases and managing these databases, it's a serious job. In this law, I don't see the funds provided for that purpose. It may be funds from some donations or from some funds, but I don't see it in this law. This part may not have to be the subject of this law, which I'm going to talk about now, but I think it's a good thing that this question is settled, which is that in some way the Commissioner will be doing administrative, technical and technical work for the Missing Persons Commission, which is being educated by the Government. I'm saying, it's not a place in this law, but it's a good solution, because in some ways a professional organisation will be able to take care of it, although from the name of this law it could not be presumed to be in this law, but on the other hand, I support that measure and I have nothing against it. It is also good that the Commission will achieve international co-operation with the competent authorities of other countries in achieving all these objectives. It is certainly better that the Commissioner does so than, God forbid, the Prime Minister or his vice president, because there will be nothing of that co-operation, because they can only violate good relations and the fact that in the situation where we have fewer immigrants from Serbia, we have a threat of visa waiver. So, that something, apparently, is wrong, and apparently this government doesn't give any credibility to international factors and to people who run other states, who are in other states' governments, so it's better to do it than anyone else, except the government. So she's the weakest point in this whole process. It is also good that there will be a council on migration, and it would be good for professional people to come in, not some of the narrow or wider members of the families of the ruling coalition from either party to the left or to the right, or as we will be sitting down from next week, because the current staff policy was just like that. It reflected the party structure and structure of the family trees of individual ministers. What is disputed for me in this law is the deadline left for the adoption of regulations that should implement this law. To tell you the truth, I was surprised when I saw this deadline, I thought it was a printing mistake. In my opinion, this should change. We no longer have the opportunity to influence this amendment, only the government can. "The rules for the implementation of this law will be passed within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law." I think it's an extremely long time, especially given this government that doesn't have much of a sense of refugee problems, exiled, displaced, etc., so I don't think this issue is going to pay any attention. Given what I said at the outset, we in the DS feel that this law is a little late, that it should have been passed before the NBS Act, which was a law for one man before and before the Amnesty Act, which we will talk about in the coming days, which lets serious criminals free and before the law that increased the VAT rate from 18% to 20%, which has led our country to a general price increase. Given what was said at the outset, the DS will respect the fact that this is a pro-European law and probably support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3787	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Stojmirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3788	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will not elaborate members of this law. I'll try to say my vision in a few sentences. Migration is not a problem that only Serbia faces. It's a problem that many countries in the world face. Our torment may thus be greater, because there have been some war conflicts at the premises of our former state, and so we have had that accident. Today I listened to colleagues and colleagues who spoke about this law and I want to believe that their intentions were sincere and that we will all try to pass in the interest of all Serbian citizens a law that will introduce order in this area. We cannot in any way question the work of this government, especially in these 100 days, because this is not the problem of this government and it is not the problem of this majority, this is the problem facing Serbia and we have to solve it together. I'm glad my colleague now said he'd vote for this bill in the voting day. I think that's what we should do in the future. These are the problems facing Serbia, not just the problems of one ministry or the Commissioner for Refugees. I hope that today, as well as in the future, we will work in this way and try to solve all problems in the interests of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3789	Thank you. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3790	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I must first express my satisfaction that this law is trying to address a chaotic situation that is currently in control of this problem. At first, I would like to conclude that it is a good thing that in this Article 2 the meaning of the term is not explained what false asylum seekers are. A few discussions are here wherever the term is mentioned, and it is quite active in using public information funds from the government's representatives, even from representatives of the international community. In fact, it is asylum seekers who, as we know, do not meet the requirements and conditions that a certain state has provided for its legal system. I think the political term is absolutely covering up the seriousness of the problem covered by that term, because sometimes it is the Roma most mentioned there, so sometimes Albanians from the south are also mentioned in this context. These migrations are not current, they are historically known in Roma when it comes to, and in Albanians from the south you have statistics. Look at the 2002 data. It has been scientifically noted that there has been a significant decrease in most minorities in Serbia, but especially in Albanians. With 78,281 Albanians in 1991, the 2002 census included 61,647, a significant reduction despite a fairly high natural growth. In these data, it was said that in this ten-year period the increase should absolutely be 16,228. With those earlier 88,000, there should probably be about 95,000 Albanians in Serbia. It is also good that the Commissioner will collect and combine information concerning immigrants and persons who intend to leave our country or have already left. However, there is a serious problem here. I thought I'd bring it up eventually, but I'll bring it up right away. The funds for this purpose are not provided here. So this job requires serious resources. So it's not a million or two dinars, it's millions of euros. Creating databases and managing these databases, it's a serious job. In this law, I don't see the funds provided for that purpose. It may be funds from some donations or from some funds, but I don't see it in this law. This part may not have to be the subject of this law, which I'm going to talk about now, but I think it's a good thing that this question is settled, which is that in some way the Commissioner will be doing administrative, technical and technical work for the Missing Persons Commission, which is being educated by the Government. I'm saying, it's not a place in this law, but it's a good solution, because in some ways a professional organisation will be able to take care of it, although from the name of this law it could not be presumed to be in this law, but on the other hand, I support that measure and I have nothing against it. It is also good that the Commission will achieve international co-operation with the competent authorities of other countries in achieving all these objectives. It is certainly better that the Commissioner does so than, God forbid, the Prime Minister or his vice president, because there will be nothing of that co-operation, because they can only violate good relations and the fact that in the situation where we have fewer immigrants from Serbia, we have a threat of visa waiver. So, that something, apparently, is wrong, and apparently this government doesn't give any credibility to international factors and to people who run other states, who are in other states' governments, so it's better to do it than anyone else, except the government. So she's the weakest point in this whole process. It is also good that there will be a council on migration, and it would be good for professional people to come in, not some of the narrow or wider members of the families of the ruling coalition from either party to the left or to the right, or as we will be sitting down from next week, because the current staff policy was just like that. It reflected the party structure and structure of the family trees of individual ministers. What is disputed for me in this law is the deadline left for the adoption of regulations that should implement this law. To tell you the truth, I was surprised when I saw this deadline, I thought it was a printing mistake. In my opinion, this should change. We no longer have the opportunity to influence this amendment, only the government can. "The rules for the implementation of this law will be passed within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law." I think it's an extremely long time, especially given this government that doesn't have much of a sense of refugee problems, exiled, displaced, etc., so I don't think this issue is going to pay any attention. Given what I said at the outset, we in the DS feel that this law is a little late, that it should have been passed before the NBS Act, which was a law for one man before and before the Amnesty Act, which we will talk about in the coming days, which lets serious criminals free and before the law that increased the VAT rate from 18% to 20%, which has led our country to a general price increase. Given what was said at the outset, the DS will respect the fact that this is a pro-European law and probably support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3791	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Stojmirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3792	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will not elaborate members of this law. I'll try to say my vision in a few sentences. Migration is not a problem that only Serbia faces. It's a problem that many countries in the world face. Our torment may thus be greater, because there have been some war conflicts at the premises of our former state, and so we have had that accident. Today I listened to colleagues and colleagues who spoke about this law and I want to believe that their intentions were sincere and that we will all try to pass in the interest of all Serbian citizens a law that will introduce order in this area. We cannot in any way question the work of this government, especially in these 100 days, because this is not the problem of this government and it is not the problem of this majority, this is the problem facing Serbia and we have to solve it together. I'm glad my colleague now said he'd vote for this bill in the voting day. I think that's what we should do in the future. These are the problems facing Serbia, not just the problems of one ministry or the Commissioner for Refugees. I hope that today, as well as in the future, we will work in this way and try to solve all problems in the interests of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3793	Thank you. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3794	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I must first express my satisfaction that this law is trying to address a chaotic situation that is currently in control of this problem. At first, I would like to conclude that it is a good thing that in this Article 2 the meaning of the term is not explained what false asylum seekers are. A few discussions are here wherever the term is mentioned, and it is quite active in using public information funds from the government's representatives, even from representatives of the international community. In fact, it is asylum seekers who, as we know, do not meet the requirements and conditions that a certain state has provided for its legal system. I think the political term is absolutely covering up the seriousness of the problem covered by that term, because sometimes it is the Roma most mentioned there, so sometimes Albanians from the south are also mentioned in this context. These migrations are not current, they are historically known in Roma when it comes to, and in Albanians from the south you have statistics. Look at the 2002 data. It has been scientifically noted that there has been a significant decrease in most minorities in Serbia, but especially in Albanians. With 78,281 Albanians in 1991, the 2002 census included 61,647, a significant reduction despite a fairly high natural growth. In these data, it was said that in this ten-year period the increase should absolutely be 16,228. With those earlier 88,000, there should probably be about 95,000 Albanians in Serbia. Here in 2002 is this 61 thousand data, which has resulted in a significant decrease. It is suggested that these emigrations are towards Kosovo and European countries. While we have that period of war in Kosovo and the armed conflict in the land zone by May 2001, then there were emergency situations and then all the countries in Europe approved asylum, political asylum for all the people in the area that sought asylum at the time. It's clear to everyone that we don't have such a situation right now, but it's also clear that you have such a catastrophic economic situation, where entire generations can't have a clue at all when they're going to be able to get a job, that they have basic conditions for a normal life. In addition, this tendency, not now that visa liberalisation is in this period, but before that, at that time the process was very intense going down an illegal path. Now it's a minor intensity and it's going through some more normal procedures. I think that procedure has two problems. The problem of what should be strategically solved in the countries of Europe, and the fundamental one would have to focus on achieving some basic employment conditions. In general, the aim of this law is to achieve the logic of economic development and employment. This is the direction in which these problems are solved and there is no question of jeopardising visa liberalisation or any other negative effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3795	The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3796	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, dear fellow MPs and MPs, it is certainly necessary and necessary to regulate this area better than ever. One modern law that will allow for the collection of all relevant information and facts relating to migration. The Democratic Party of Serbia and I, personally, are here when this Assembly has already proposed amendments to the law on non-partisan procedure, has pointed to the many abuses it aims to ensure that people who would otherwise not have the right, gain the citizenship of our country. I will remind you that at that time I suggested that the application of this law be postponed that the National Assembly had observed my suggestions, so it was applied and delayed. DHSS was also then pointed out and suggested that the adoption of the law follow the adoption of a number of other system solutions. In fact, a system solution has been made that is nothing spectacular. It's just a regulation that allows state authorities to connect for as effective an action as possible in the same way. I fear that the Republic of Serbia is more prone than usual, even when it is well-intentioned to solve a problem. It is not noteworthy that not all those subject to a certain law are well-intentioned, even if it is the law on the management of migration. We feel good that the area of migration needs to be settled, but we also think that we should take care of all the many migration abuses that will be more and more frequent and that will become increasingly massier, as our country joins the EU. When it comes to migration, two things should be taken care of. First, to exercise migration rights to all those who have found themselves in an unfavourable position, they have reluctantly left their hearths, but it is also necessary to take care of their own citizens so that large and frequent abuses of all these migration rights do not endanger us alone. That is why the DHSS has proposed to integrate, on the one hand, provisions to define what is an abuse of migration rights. On the other hand, to create a reliable information system on these abuses, so that the government of the Republic of Serbia can intervene in good time. In fact, to take all measures to combat all abuses. We also believe that, since the migration management law also contains the principles that these principles, in the respect of many laws, should be integrated into the principle of banning the abuse of migration rights. Since this law creates a single information base to be run by the Commissioner, it needs to be used and entered into by all those objections by the national authorities and authorities of local self-government relating to the abuse of migration rights. We have recently witnessed numerous protests caused in smaller places, precisely because of the inflows of asylum seekers. Remember Banja Koviljaca, remember Valev, remember many other places. So this problem has to be talked about, it has to be approached with one particular attention team before we remember that half a century ago we had extremely negative experience on this issue. This negative experience has helped us to have a huge number of Albanian citizens in Kosovo and Metohija today. After all, it should be said that a smart man learns in other people's experiences and averages on his own. I hope we'll at least be average. The creation of a single information system to be run by the Commissioner, in which all the data of importance will be found, both for migration and for the suspicion of abuses. They should help the state authorities prevent such abuse in the future. The situation on the ground and the degree of corruption in the Republic of Serbia clearly states that this will happen, because if we have in mind that the Assembly has adopted amendments to the law on non-partisan procedure, which does not require you to corrupt the judge. It's enough to corrupt only two witnesses. Then it's for sure that's how it's gonna be. Witnesses can be cousins. It could certainly prevent a false claim that he was a relative from another country, or 30 years ago, that he was born in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Moreover, there was not a single word in this bill on how abuse would be prevented or at least how we would find out about them in order to prevent them in the future. We don't need to look naive, and make sure that naivety costs us 20 or 30 years from the law. Despite the fact that Serbs are less and less eager to live in Serbia, some others are eager to settle here with their belly after bread. In the end, we cannot selectively look up to the EU, because the EU has passed a number of human rights rules, including the right to asylum, because it is just one of them. It has passed regulations, which envision family unity in their principles, but the EU countries have brought whole system regulations that they want to reduce migration to them. There's no reason for us to run from such regulations. That is why the DHSS requires that any legal text, even though it has been called the migration management law's proposal, is corpored by all those instruments to prevent abuse. If by something our country is famous for in the world, it is known for three things, for athletes, for scientists and for abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3797	The word is Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3798	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government's respected president and citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the NS parliamentary group, I would like to commend the proposing's intention to finally pass a law on migration management in the Republic of Serbia. As a necessary legal framework for systematic and coordinated monitoring of migration flows and addressing problems arising from migration in society. Migration, immigration, readmission and repartration are particularly sensitive processes in every nation, traumatic. Because they're most often caused by historical traumas. It is therefore a collective pain and a state problem with profound consequences for the fate of each individual found in this problem. With this, Serbia must be included in its legislation in the global course of resolving migration processes. Migrations always change the economic, social, ethnological, demographic and mental profile of the society to which they happen. We are a country that has always been in such a geostrategic and geopolitical position that migration has been part of our history, part of our development, no matter what they are encouraged, willful or reluctant. The passing of this law and for Serbia in transition, which is still in the trouble of removing the consequences of the collapse of the previous state, one of the important issues that will give the framework to be more legally effective, and thus more just, solves the issue and the problem of migration. Until this proposal for a law that is before us did not exist a single system of rules that regulates the essential elements of migration management. Currently, the legal and institutional framework for the management of migration in Serbia is divided. The problems are both visible and heavy and numerous. Realising the need for the pooling of data necessary for the management of migration has shown the necessary identification of bodies that would unite and analyse data relevant to the area of migration. It is very important that the proposal for this law determines the expert body responsible for establishing a single collection, organisation and exchange system for this area of significant information and information. This solves the problem arising from the insufficiently synchronised and coordinated actions of the authorities of the state administration involved in the migration management system. Thus, we think that this is also a good way to solve exactly the acute problem that every society is exposed to when it uses, and that is that it abuses it. I think this way, the possibility of abuse of all those rights arising from this social status will be reduced. One of the conditions that the Republic of Serbia must meet in order to liberalise the visa regime is to establish and start the implementation of migration control mechanisms, with the definition and regular update of the migration profiles of the Republic of Serbia and the education of the body responsible for the collection and analysis of origin and migration flows data. One of the most important solutions provided for by this law is the establishment of new responsibilities of the Refugee Commissioner in Article 8(2) and the definition of the work of the Commissioner for Refugees to be renamed the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration, which refers to improving the conditions of internally displaced persons while in rural areas. In particular, we believe that co-operation on such a painful social problem with all relevant institutions, but also international co-operation, and with modern data processing, electronic exchange, this cooperation as prescribed by Article 9. The bill before us should be very effective. Since it is a social problem and a social phenomenon in which Serbia is no exception, and as a phenomenon it is very complex, both in its creation and in its resolution, we believe it is very good that the law provides for training for this type of business and that it is defined by Article 11. A bill of law ahead of us. Training will include specially motivated personnel, who will then be able to cope with the problems they face with with the knowledge gained and experience gained. Also, the basic four principles of this law, which will be managed by all those who implement it, and for the benefit of those for whom it is brought, so migrants, but above all, Serbian citizens, must be guaranteed that all established ethical norms will be respected in the realization. First of all, I think of the first principle of family unity, and where all the interests of the family should be taken care of, above all children. Of course, there is no need to ignore the possibility of including some new principles, as discussed today. The conditions of living in collective centres are extremely bad, very often unconditional, inhumane, almost humiliating. That's why we're convinced that the final moment for the state to take concrete steps in terms of repairing a difficult, slightly chaotic situation. We are prepared to support the government's efforts to pass this law, as well as any good proposals that MPs put into their amendment proposals. When we talk about this bill, it would be unfair not to mention some difficult examples in Serbia, which are looking forward to a comprehensive legislative solution with impenetrableness. I can't help but remind myself that the residents of the Centre for Asylum in Bogovodji are living, expressing hope that setting up a stronger legal framework in which the Refugees' Commissioner will act will contribute to the correction of the conditions for the lives of asylum seekers and will in future prevent the abuse of funds intended to finance such centres. I also remind citizens of recent events in Banja Koviljaca. Very often, we were informed through the media, so we were all more than upset and concerned about what was happening in this municipality of western Serbia. The patience of the local population is so exhausted that there has been a maltene point that it self-organizes against asylum seekers located at the reception center there, because they are dissatisfied with the way the state regulates their stay there, and seeing in their stay some uncertainty or insecurity for their everyday life. Serbia is certainly the goal of being a safe country, primarily for its citizens, and then for migrants to feel safe here. Another important solution proposed in this law is to entrust the Commissioner with carrying out professional and administrative technical tasks for the needs of the Commission for Missing Persons, one of our acute and very painful issues and topics. We see a good solution in Articles 16 and 17. The bill provides for the establishment of a single system of collection, organisation and exchange of data, as necessary preconditions for quality monitoring and analysis of migration flows, making it much easier to carry out tasks for the authorities of the state administration and thus overcoming the current situation that data are often unnecessaryly duplicated, accumulated and cannot be used in an adequate and efficient manner. The legislator's explanation of the bill says it is the answer to the current lack of rules of unity and coordination within the system, the management of migration in the Republic of Serbia, and will ensure a comprehensive and continuous management of migration by looking at the entire migration picture of the Republic of Serbia. We feel that the practical application of this law will surely bring about the need for it to be further perfected. It is important that the life of the law in practice begins, and then we will see how we can make this situation, which is very difficult in Serbia, the best for all of us. Given the seriousness of the problem, estimating the government's willingness to finally responsibly address the difficulties arising from any kind of willing or anything encouraged migration in Serbia's territory, the NS will support this bill in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3799	Thank you. The People's Parliament of Olena Papuga isn't in the O.R., so let's move on. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Neven the Flowering.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3800	Dear President-in-Office, Honorable Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, the respected representatives of the ministry, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, allow me to speak before I begin to discuss the concrete solutions provided for by this bill as a sociologist of the reasons why this law needs to be passed and adopted and let me say something about what, if this bill is adopted, will be changed in the blood count of our society, to metaphorically express myself. This is one of those laws that aims to translate us from the state of the verse into the state of organization and order. As we know, in our administrative bodies very often, the situation is such that we do not know who is in charge, that they intertwine the competences of different state authorities over the same thing, and then we often have a transfer of responsibility where one state authority transfers responsibility to others, so that in the end they do not know who solves the problem, so the problems are most often not solved. That was the case so far and in the area of migration management, where several state authorities were competent and where sometimes we didn't have a good coordination between these state authorities and that's exactly what this law is trying to change, that's what this law is trying to regulate and that's what this law is trying to coordinate. The state has well understood, and this bill says that something has to change and that we can no longer manage migration from several points to several state bodies, but that we need to manage migration from one point to the state body that will be specifically designated for it, and that is precisely at points 7, 8, 9, and further points of this bill. Finally, it is necessary to say that this law is not only adopted for our internal political reasons, i.e. for the reasons of the institutional internal arrangement of the state, but also for foreign policy reasons. We must, in order that from the state of the credible partner, about all the visa liberalisation agreements, we must arrange this area so that we never have any migration flows in our place and that the state has control over this process. The last, but not least important in this introductory part, and that is what I want to say, that what is very important is that this bill establishes a single system for the collection and exchange of data on migration flows, because data has been scattered by several databases in several state bodies before. As managed by this area by several state authorities, various state authorities had their own databases and, sometimes, there was not enough coordination among them. By establishing a unique data collection and exchange system, by networking the current data and, let's say, by establishing one organisational and one inter-organisational database, we allow the state to monitor this area effectively and that the state knows what is happening to it. Finally, I want to say that we have to have a migration policy. We can't let this thing go to the verse. We need to organise this, and that migration policy should be run by the state and government. Now I'd like to move on to those specific members of the law, Art. 7, 8, 9, and beyond, which provides for the establishment of a responsible state body to monitor this issue and solve it, so that we know who's responsible. It is, as my colleagues have already said, the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration, which was created by adding a new ingenuity to the Refugees, which gives us a respectable state body, but cannot guarantee the integrity of this body, only concrete work. In practice, we'll see how this commissary works. Whoever guides him and those who guide him will have no easy task. What are duties, just to inform citizens who are watching this in front of TV screens, this refugee and migration commissioner who is supposed to manage migration flows in the Republic of Serbia? Under number one, it is the duty of this commissioner to propose to the government a specific migration policy and concrete measures to encourage legal migration, but more importantly, to combat illegal migration that has led to the country's problems until now, and because of which the state has very often not been a credible partner in negotiations with partners on visa liberalisation. The refugee commissioner must take care of those from other countries that are staying in Serbia under the Asylum Law, who have found refuge in Serbia, but, more importantly, to take care of those returnees who have illegally migrated to other countries and to organise the process not only of their acceptance and care but of our society. So this law will define a procedure for what we do with any of our citizens who went illegally across the border and who is returned here under the Readmission Act. So he enters the ordinary legal procedure and the state knows how to deal with him and the Commissioner is responsible for this treatment. Also, the Commissioner must collect all information on migration flows, precisely through this unique data collection system and what is very important, this commissioner must form a migration profile of the Republic of Serbia and update it regularly. So the government has to offer the mechanism and the instrument, if the government wants to inform itself about this area, as if it's turning on TV and it has all relevant data on the screen. Someone has already said, I do not want to repeat and take time away from colleagues who have previously spoken, this commissioner is taking over certain responsibilities and doing administrative work for the Commission's needs for missing persons in all its activities. Also, there was a word and I would not like to repeat myself, this commissioner is working with local migration councils formed at local and regional level, again from local authorities and self-government and the province, and we will have one co-ordination of the centre and local authorities in this matter to know who is doing what. Finally, we come to those points of this bill that are very important, which are precise and which predict what is happening to returnees, with citizens of Serbia who went to other countries illegally and returned under the Law on Reading, but also what we do with asylum seekers who have found refuge in the Republic of Serbia under the Asylum Act. This law provides, to inform citizens to be referred to these most important points, that the Commissioner should find collective accommodation for all those who have been returned under the readmission Agreement for a period of 14 days, where space is left for some categories that are threatened to be longer. The commissioner must provide housing for all those staying in the Republic of Serbia under the Asylum Act, and it is the government that forms priorities for asylum seekers. Allow me to conclude at the very end of the speech on this bill that this is a step in the right direction, however, we do not need to go to sleep now and think that we have done business with this bill. We can't think that this law is going to work itself now. We passed the law, we solved the problem, and we don't have to deal with this anymore. This is not the end of the regulation of this problem, this is the beginning of regulation of this problem. I've already pointed out that, the very work of the Commissioner will be seen in practice. Is this body working, is it well done, that the Commissioner for Refugees and this migration authority is added to it, and will that body be able to effectively solve everything that it's formed for? Let me conclude at the very end and draw a general conclusion. The state has to manage social processes and flows. The state can't let them go in a song. Transferred to this case, I want to say that the state has to manage migration, so that migration doesn't govern us, so that the state doesn't suffer any serious consequences because it's been reckless somewhere and this law allows the state to be responsible for this matter. I hope that this law will make a full contribution to managing migration, not letting them go through the lines. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3801	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3802	Thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry there isn't a minister here to hear what I'm about to say, but we're used to this government having a lot of promises and a little execution. For me, there are two reasons why this law is now on the agenda. One is the control of the damage caused by the lack of some policies in the area of migration. The second issue is the white Schengen, where the issue of our migration to the EU has put into question this privilege and the right that the EU has given us. When I say damage control, it is quite clear that at this point the real problem of migration in Serbia is economic. In that sense, I want to start by saying that I think that connecting the Commissioner for Refugees, with this new form of migration, is completely wrong and does not actually contribute to the solution. In fact, I hope that these forms of migration, such as refugee in the region, are no longer going to happen, because it was the result of the war. I also hope that that form of migration, such as internally displaced faces, will also never happen here again. I must remind you that the refugee issue has not been resolved in 20 years, that the internally displaced issue has not been resolved in 12 years. Now add to the Commissioner who is dealing with this serious problem, that we are not talking about a missing person who is also over 20 years old and has not been resolved yet, to add to that commissioner another obligation to deal with these new economic migrations, to me it is wrong. I think it would have been much more effective if the government had proposed the formation of a body – whether it was an office or something else, I will not say the word of the agencies, because it is the wrong word, which would have dealt with a new specific form of migration as a result of the lack of clear economic policy in the country. The most effective control of migration is employment. We haven't heard anything from this government yet about employment. We heard about the loans, about the budgets, about the Agrobanks, which was also passed by the Law to correct the "guilty Drina" that the government itself has brought, but we haven't heard anything about employment. We have two kinds of economic migrants. One of them is highly educated and the other one is very poor. The highly educated have or do not have an incomparably fewer problems in joining those countries they are going to, especially in economically developed countries, because human resources are missing and in this sense are not candidates for refugee centres but are candidates who, if they return to the country, have the opportunity to provide their own accommodation. The other ones, the poor ones that this law deals with and the care of their return, and there I have to make one small parentheses and tell my colleagues that they have not illegally left the country, they have legally left the country, but they have illegally stayed in the countries where they went, and that is not a small difference in the perception of these people because they used their freedom of movement, all the rights that our Constitution has provided for them, and their right to leave the country, but there they have to act according to the rules of the countries in which they went. So we're not dealing with some people here who need some amnesty or social integration. They were part of a society that was rejected and marginalized for economic reasons and we should do everything possible to ensure that they become equal members of our society. That, I repeat, cannot happen unless we have a clear economic development policy, unless we have a clear employment policy. I'll give you a little example. Do we know that during agricultural work we have a large number of people coming from Romania, Bulgaria and other neighbouring countries, and are doing these seasonal agricultural jobs? Is local policy perhaps that these people who are out of work, those people who are going after bread in the EU may offer such a job or in some way oblige them to do these jobs and otherwise deny them some rights they have? It would be something that the local community would do in those environments where that kind of work is possible and necessary. When we talk about these particularly endangered groups of people, I have to say that for me, it's a particularly dramatic member of the 15th that says that the Commissioner will provide accommodation in the collective center for up to 14 days, and if you are sick or have some psychophysical or other problems, then and longer, which creates the assumption that there are conditions in collective centres where those who are sick, have disability or psychophysical conditions, allow it to change. I mean exactly the opposite. I think those who have psychophysical problems, who have a disease or something else, age, etc., need to be referred to institutions in which they can solve their problems as soon as possible. This is an absolutely amazing formulation, and unfortunately with our amendment, we are late, but I hope that reason will win and that this 14-day deadline will be cut short. The problem of highly educated people leaving the country also requires one particular policy, and this policy cannot be run by the Commissioner. That policy can be run by different ministries in this country. We know that the education ministry's plan is to increase the percentage from 6% to 40 highly educated within 10 years. Not that it's inconclusive, it's not even utopian. It's just one fantasy or a printing error. A team of those 6% highly educated in Serbia is currently unemployed. Where do these people see any perspective? Certainly not here, but they're looking for her somewhere around here, and then it's migration policy and so on. Management of migration or whatever you want to call it, management of migration flows. If we solve these people's employment problems, we are promised a departmentation in the election campaign. In my opinion, detachment means that qualification determines if you're going to work somewhere. Right after the election, we were told that it was one, as I would say, a conscious lie that was told in the pre-election campaign, so I'm not surprised that my colleague was surprised, and unlike her, I'm not surprised that some of them are decentralisation now and after that are no longer decentralisation. decentralisation was part of pre-election promises. It is, of course, not implemented, or even in Article 15, when delegated to local self-government to form advice and influence on migration. All decisions on activities in local self-government units, criteria, determines the Commissioner and confirms the Government. In this respect, decentralisation is reduced to mere proposal, not to the implementation and definition of a policy that local self-government considers as priorities to address the problem of migration from its local community. I could also talk about how far our country has provided conditions for internal mobility for citizens. Everyone's looking for a job in their workplace. Why? Because they know that if they go to another job with a salary, they won't be able to provide themselves with basic living conditions. to rent an apartment, etc. These are all essential reforms. These are the fundamental reform changes that this government needs to make, and it does not implement them, and in that sense, this law is only a control of the damage to the implementation of the government's reform policy and I don't think the LDP can support this law, because it thinks it's high time to take steps that are painful but that are absolutely inevitable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3803	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3804	Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, citizens, respected chairman, this is a law that is important and necessary for Serbia. Will this law solve all problems in the area of migration? I'm sure he won't. Will this law solve all the problems we have in the field of education, will it solve the problems we have in the area of decentralisation? It won't be safe. But this is certainly a law that will help the situation in the area of migration be monitored, the data collected, monitored or served to control the negative effects of migration. That's how we understand this law. We understand it as a first step on this road, we understand it as a compliance with standards and international regulations, and in that sense we will support this law. When we talk about migration, there are a few basic questions for me. One is a certain issue of refugees and displaced persons who, unfortunately, are still active in Serbia. The second is the current issue of false asylum seekers. The third issue is our immigration and, above all, leaving the country by highly educated young people. Finally, perhaps one of the most important issues is the issue of the decentralisation process, i.e. preventing the discharge of some parts of Serbia, and I must say that I live in one part of Serbia, in southern Serbia, which unfortunately falls into those areas that are continuously empty and therefore you can trust me to know what I'm talking about when I'm talking about internal migration. When we talk about refugees and displaced persons, it is true that Serbia has been facing this issue for a very long time. It is true that the issue faces a variable success. Serbia was not a country that was ready to receive such a large inflow of refugees. I will remind you that in 1996 there were about 600,000 refugees from the former Yugoslavia and that they came to Serbia who had been poored, weakened and had no institutional, no economic, no psychological, no such process. This certainly resulted in the fact that as a state, we were not doing well in the process. The fact is that a very large number of people have come to Serbia. These are the people who, under duress, left their dwellings, left the environment they lived in, left their social networks that they had. They simply came devastated, not only economically, but also psychologically, and it is certain that those at that time were the hardest. When you move from apartment to apartment, from city to city, you know it's very difficult, but when you move in one forced way from where you were born, grown up, where you lived in a stable environment, then it's something that causes additional earthquakes and inability to easily adapt to the new environment. Surely, both of these factors that I was talking about contributed to this result, that after twenty years we still have about 97,000 people who are being taken as refugees and about 209.000 displaced persons. They're people who didn't integrate. These are people who have not been able to find their permanent place in any of the processes, nor to return to the places from which they came, nor to be fully integrated into our society. It certainly is something that we still need to think about and is something that the newly established body, which deals with migration, will deal with. However, we should say that in those 18 or 20 years, many positive steps have been taken in this direction and that the number of refugees, as I said, has been reduced by 538,000 in 1996. In 2001, there were 346,000 in 2005, 104 and now, as we said, 97,000. This means, however, that a large number of people have managed to find their hearth in Serbia or in third countries or in country of origin. What is certainly a big problem with this population is unemployment, but that is the problem of the general population in Serbia. Unfortunately, among the refugees, the problem is greater. There are about 58% of them, and that certainly is one question that needs to be resolved. Those who remain in this status, those who remain unemployed, are the wave of low-level people. Those who were educated very quickly, after arriving in Serbia, managed to resolve their issue. We have to say that it's not just because they had more education, but because they are people who are easier to cope with in these situations. What is devastating for us, as a country, and above all for them, is that a number of them still live in collective centres, and so does displaced faces. That must be something, I hope, that must be resolved within a very short time, because such a situation is unsustainable and inadmissible. As I said, the second question is the asylum issue. It's a question that's very relevant these days, very much spoken of. Because that is a question that threatens all of us and which, I would say, threatens exactly young, educated people who can be potential immigrants, who can think about leaving Serbia and looking for their future and their perspective in another country. It seems to me that they are most intimidated by the abuse that is happening in this population of false asylum seekers, but what is encouraging is the news that we are getting these days and the fact that it will not happen and that the white Schengen will remain in force for Serbia as well. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be. I am convinced that Serbia will not allow us to take a step backwards and that is simply something that the most serious, according to all the information we are getting, the government is working on. We have the first results and the fact that Germany has declared Serbia a safe country and that the number of fake asylum seekers from Serbia will decrease in the coming period. We know and we heard that it is not, as some try to show, the fact that Serbia has problems, which is that there has been an increase in the number of asylum seekers because some countries have changed their policies towards asylum seekers and offered much better conditions. In any case, as I said, in recent days, we have encouraging information that it will not be a question that will be threatening for Serbia. What I wanted to talk about, that's immigration. These are people leaving Serbia without returning to it. They're young and educated people. At this point, the willingness to emigrate from Serbia shows 21% of the general population, 26% of the vulnerable groups. It is economic emigration, but unfortunately 50% of young people show readiness, and among them is the smallest number of those with primary school, the higher education is 24% and the magistrate and the doctor is 33%. This means that they are the most educated and wisest, almost a third, ready to look for their perspective in another country. This is a question that we seriously need to imagine, and that is, to change the system of values in our society, to change the system of education, to work on reforms in the fields of employment, education and to be more valuable to those people in our environments who are the smartest, most capable and willing to really be capacity for the development of our society. This is the task that should be taken into account in the future when we talk about the management of migration. First of all, stop the eviction, but also make attempts to get young people out of Serbia back into it. I have to say that there have been attempts at various ministries, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Science, to make records of people who left Serbia, to communicate with them, to offer them to return to our country, but it seems to me that these divided records have not produced the right results and that we have not had a single policy in various resolutions that would lead to their return. I will say that one of the problems is the nostration of a diploma, which these young people have acquired, and that is a process that needs to be accelerated, which needs to be clearly defined and which should be directed so that young people, who have acquired diplomas somewhere in the world, can come and work in Serbia. They are needed by Serbia. They are the quality and resources we have and absolutely cannot throw away. Not only because it is very expensive for a poor country, not only because millions of euros are invested in their education, but because they are our children, who are in the heart of their childhood memories, Serbia and the need to affirm their qualities and their skills. In the end, I want to say that no less important question is the issue of internal migration. I believe it is good that there is mobility within our country. I believe it's a good thing that people from different cities can go work in other cities. I believe that it enriches those who go and those who go and that it certainly is a quality higher, that exchange of different temperaments, different experiences, different habits, even within our country, is something that enriches us all. But what is worrying is that this trend is always in the same direction, that it always goes from the south to the north, that it always goes from village to the cities and that it is a process which, unfortunately, over the decade, has not changed and that it leads to certain cities, some places in Serbia, remain completely empty. Every fifth migrant comes from Jablanic and Pcinj County, it's a district where I come from, and when you ask people in southern Serbia, young people, when they move out of their place, where they'd do it -- for a period of one to two years, 6.4% would move out, 11% per few years, 35%, and 46.9% would permanently move out, so almost half of the young people living in these parts want to leave them permanently. They say 30% would go abroad and 66% would go somewhere else in Serbia. From 2000 to 2008 the Borski district was reduced by 23%, Pomoravski by 15.5%, Zajecarski by 13.5%, Pyrotski by 11.3%, Toplički by 11.2%. During that time, Belgrade increased 1.3%, the Sremski District 6.7%, Southbanatski 7.8%. The trend of movement is from the south to the north. It is certain that the answer must be, above all, investment in the human resources of people living in these parts, but rather investment in traffic, energy, communication infrastructure and better conditions for investors and for the employment of people living in these areas. Long-term unemployment in our southern regions is 14.7%. It's something that doesn't give people hope, it's something that doesn't give hope that they'll ever come out of poverty. Surely these are trends that must change. The united regions of Serbia are consistently pushing for a decentralisation process, we advocate the right of all people, wherever they live in our country, to live on equal terms and therefore we will continue to work consistently to improve the situation of people living in these parts. We believe this law is one step in that direction. Of course, this law has not answered the question so far – does the current Commissioner have enough capacity to work this way? I appeal to everyone who connects, all the state authorities that connect in this process, that they really do it consistently and responsibly, given that one of our weaknesses is an insufficient inter-resorial connection and that everything this law commits does not remain a dead letter on paper. We didn't even get an answer to the question in this law -- how much is it going to cost, does Serbia currently have the money to finance all this, is that foreseen by the new budget? I hope these are questions to which there are positive answers although they are not mentioned in the law. My hope is that this law, as I said, will be the first step, but that it will work well and will encourage people in all resolutions at national level, but also people at the bar, to deal with all these issues more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3805	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3806	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, that migration management in today's world is one of the most important issues for each country, so of course Serbia is also very important. The proposal for a law on migration management is in fact the last normative obligation from the visa liberalisation map, which, strangely or ironically, has been mentioned very often lately, but is not mentioned by something good, but is mentioned by Serbia being placed on a pillar of shame, a little bit and its citizens being threatened by the abolition of the white Schengen and those countries of the Schengen list, and is threatened to prevent the introduction of visas from being able to travel through Europe again. For what? For fake asylums. Serbia is accused that it has not done enough to prevent these fake asylum seekers from going to countries mentioned here, such as Germany, Belgium, Switzerland, Sweden, Japan, Denmark, etc. It is interesting to say that these countries mention this thesis a little bit, that Serbia is not working enough with false asylum seekers, although we must admit that they are coming out of the country legally with documents under the applicable laws and everything else. Even Prime Minister Dacic offered in time to separate Serbia from its modest budget 100m euros in order to pay costs for false asylum seekers, or asylum seekers, in any case, and to take care of these asylum seekers. In his place, I would suggest that we also help create laws, because their laws are so full of holes that people are actually just using what the country has offered and nothing more than that, and the process for obtaining some asylum status is a 15-month process, so two years old and people are not alone to blame for such a law. This all sounds very bitter because, in fact, the truth is hidden in this, that a little bit of pressure on Serbia is being slightly increased, that it will be taken away from a white Schengen if, as a permanent settlement of KIM status is approaching, it is actually like a stick and carrots asking a question – either a white Schengen, or hand over the southern Serbian province to the management of an independent state of Kosovo. The fact is that the number of requirements in the last quarter of 2012 compared to those of previous years in Switzerland increased the number of asylum applications by 42% and that the citizens of Serbia, and this is about Roma, even precisely from which parts of Serbia are coming, Bosniaks, precisely from which parts of Serbia come and Albanians, precisely from which parts of Serbia come, are second to the number of those seeking asylum in Switzerland and right after Eritrea. I have to say that, before this bill, Serbia has brought in two documents that are very important for understanding this whole matter and these are the migration profile for 2010 and the Handbook for the Protection of the Rights of Migrants, also for 2010, but it is interesting to say that for the first time, Serbia itself has done these documents, that the International Migration Agency has assisted in 2007, 2008 and 2009, and these are independent documents. It's interesting to follow what they're offering. This migration profile provides better insight into migration, flows and their causes. It is, in fact, the normative framework for making those policies that will deal with migration and is an opportunity to develop co-operation in this area. On the other hand, the Handbook for the Protection of the Rights of Migrants is the most aimed at civil servants and officials in the region, because, in fact, to be fair, the officials at the place, or local authorities, are facing different types of migration and have specific problems such as increased number of asylum seekers from Asia, Africa, not to mention God, the problem that has escalated in Banja Koviljača, to the point that Parliament has repeatedly dealt with this topic. To go back to this migration profile. It shows that in 2010, the number of immigrants increased, a somewhat reduced number of refugees and an increase in the number of internally displaced people. These are data that are very important to understand migration management. It is interesting to say that Serbia still does not have complete data, accurate data on immigrant combat, and no data on the diaspora. There's no number of those who are distracted. It is interesting because after nearly a decade of work by the Ministry of Diaspora and Faith, after ministers who practically did not come to Serbia, they dealt with the diaspora there on the spot, after one parliamentary party particularly insisted on the immeasurable contribution they made to this topic of diaspora, we cannot even speak exactly about how many people in the diaspora. We must also rely on the numbers, that is, the information offered by the embassies, the SPC, the citizens' associations, and the ministry I was talking about. It is interesting, for example, that the data vary greatly, that according to the associations of citizens, Serbia has four million people in the diaspora, and according to the figures from the Ministry of Religion and Diaspora, there are 2.7 million. These are very big differences and it would be good if we could talk about them somehow. These two documents also make a big difference between emigrants and diaspora. Even at the presentation of these two documents, it was said that the monitoring of migration is particularly complex because it is not possible to obtain accurate and complete data abroad either. I would like to comment on that, because this issue for Serbia is very big and very important, because we need to talk about this economic migration, as well as about educational migration, but somehow we are talking about everything divided and we cannot bring things into line. Of course, the data we get from the World Bank and Eurostat are very different, so it's very difficult to speak precisely about it. According to the 2011 World Bank, the population of immigrants from Serbia was 196,000, which is practically 2% of Serbia's population. The most important destinations were Austria, USA, France, Macedonia, Denmark and Japan. The past government, due to which desperate policies, especially in the area of the economy, have left Serbia in this number, seeking employment and a way to survive, has not said a word about 2% of its population that has gone into immigration because of them. We must remember an election campaign in which no word has been said that 196,000 people have left Serbia for four years, and Serbia has practically never opened this problem, not even in parliament, and that is a very important problem. We didn't talk about it as if it were a state secret, as well as negotiations in Pristina, as a number of unemployed. Remember, we bid with that number. A little more information from this document. The number of people staying in the EU on the basis of a temporary stay is that of those who were educated in EU countries, who worked there, who went on the basis of family mergers, down by 32,000 compared to 2009. These are very interesting data that we should discuss, as they practically show the state of the country in Serbia. In Serbia, the number of emigrants increased by 6.5% compared to 2009. Of course, this is about those people who have stayed in Serbia for more than 12 months on the basis of an approved permanent or temporary stay. In particular, it is a large number of Romanian, Bulgarian and German citizens. In 2010, 215 asylum applications, mostly Afghans and Palestinians, were filed. Under the Readmission Treaty, 5,100 citizens of Serbia who did not meet the conditions for staying in Germany, Switzerland, Hungary, Sweden, Austria, Norway and France were returned. I have more information, but I am looking at the weather, because I would really like this to be said by my colleague Petar Petrovic, who will talk later, and I would like to talk a little bit about the law myself. The law itself waited a long time. After the strategy, which has also been long awaited, has come to order and I must say that I am really caught because it's very rash, it's declarative, it's general, it's very hesitant, and I'm afraid it's going to be a big problem for it to be applied and it has any chance of being good. I said already, there are many sectoral strategies, so it was difficult for them to establish coordination, and now there is already a problem in the coordination of bodies and institutions. When you have many bodies and many organizations, many parts of institutions, then you have a problem or excessive jurisdiction, or division of jurisdiction, where you don't know who does or doesn't know who's responsible, after all. In order to avoid all this, I see that you are introducing that you are renaming the Commissioner for Refugees to the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration, but you are giving him a lot of jurisdiction, new competences, and you are not providing him with financial resources. We must be very open and objective, the Commissioner has not shown a particularly high score so far. When I talk about God, I come from Valjev so this problem, not only was it in the press, even more famous, there people were forced to work on various properties, there was no treatment, they were on the meadow, I don't know how much time, etc. So everything that was negative could be seen in one place. The Mockingbird is a theme for himself, and that was also a lot of words in the Assembly. So, I believe that the Commissioner, by renaming himself, by giving him so much jurisdiction, cannot answer these problems. I am particularly concerned that the Commissioner will not submit its report to the MPs, or to the committee of directors, and that it is important that the migration policy is for MPs and for those who need to make some decisions, but that it will be submitted to the Government, so that MPs will not particularly have the opportunity to get acquainted with the specific problems that arise in that part. Then, you foresee the establishment of rural and local migration councils. I have to ask a question - who will finance it and from what means? It is said – according to the project. But then you can't ask to start the joints if you can't finance it and if you don't participate. Also, I think, and that's what I'm going to end up with, that the circuit councils shouldn't even be formed, precisely because you're just increasing the administration. You have a local and every local and the province will be able to react as well. You haven't said a word about internal migrations that are also a major problem in Serbia. What's controversial is the deadline for regulation - 12 months. That's way too long. If the law is passed by emergency procedure, then it should have been brought very urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3807	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3808	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Commissioner, the Ministry of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, at the very beginning, I will repeat what Mr Petronijevic said very clearly and precisely as an authorised representative of the SPS Parliament Club, so in the Election Day, the SPS Parliament Club will support the proposal for a migration management law. There are several reasons for such an attitude, for such a decision, there are several essential reasons. First of all, we need to keep in mind the importance of the topic and the area we are talking about, the importance of managing migration flows, the many open issues that exist today when it comes to this area, and they are related to different categories of immigrants. It is about the subject and the area that has, I repeat, the exceptional importance and the exceptional importance, which covers, there have already been words, different types and segments of emigration, including different categories of immigrants. Some indicators, which have also been mentioned, which have been seen in information over the past few days, say that some 200,000 people are moving from smaller to bigger place annually, that about 80,000 refugees live in Serbia, that some 21,000 internally displaced persons, more than 20,000 immigrants, and that, annually from the EU, just under the Readmission Agreement, around 4,500 people are returned. These are some data, and it's already been said today, they appear in public. They are hopefully, and we are confident, precisely defined as part of Serbia's migration profile for 2011, but we assume that they are less – more accurate. In fact, it only speaks more in favour of the finding that it is an extremely important and important area in Serbia. Another fundamental reason for us, for which this legislative proposal should be supported, is to harmonise our legislation with EU legislation, i.e. by harmonising our legal framework, as stated among other things in the light of this legislative proposal, with the EU legal framework in the field of migration. Simply on the path of European integration, Serbia must establish and implement mechanisms to monitor migration flows. Of course, for the third reason, this legislative proposal will enable and create what has not been possible so far because of the lack of legal framework, which is unity and coordination within the migration management system in Serbia. So these are three essential reasons for us to be fully justified in supporting this legal proposal. By adopting this bill, what does it actually accomplish? As is said among other things, two things are extremely important. The adoption of this legislative proposal will first and foremost extend the competence of the Commissioner for Refugees to manage migration and help asylum seekers and a single database will be established that all state bodies involved in this work can use. What's the point? Data will be collected and exchanged through the interconnection and networking of public administration databases which are required to provide the Commission with information that has been found necessary for the management of migration. With the adoption of the proposal, the commissioner is given an extremely important and important role when it comes to the management of migration in Serbia. I don't mean to quote or read the content of the bill, but I'm only going to list some of the jobs that I consider to be of paramount importance, which, after the adoption of this legislative proposal, will just be carried out by the Commissioner. So this is about proposing the objectives and priorities of migration policy, it is about measures and actions to encourage positive effects of legal and combating illegal migration. It will then work on measures for the integration of persons who, in accordance with the Asylum Act, are granted the right to shelter, then reintegration of returnees under the Readmission Agreement. He will work on measures to improve the living conditions of internally displaced persons, report on immigration and immigration, and what has already been said, and I think it is also important, to keep track of missing persons in armed conflicts in the former SFRY area. The period behind us, the results of the work, I would say to the Commissioner for Refugees in the past period of time, say that the responsibility they receive, which they will receive through the adoption of this legislative proposal, I would say quite justifiably has been allocated to the Commissioner for Refugees. I must say, as an MP, I come from the city of Valjev, where the results of the Commissioners are precisely visible and recognizable. I'm convinced he'll be far more visible and recognizable in the next period of time. So, by adopting this legislative proposal very precisely and this is the most important defined body that will use a single record, a single database to coordinate and manage migration in Serbia, and that is exactly the main objective. So the main goal is to manage migration. What we think is also important, among other things, has already been said, and this is that local self-government will be obliged to join the migration management system and deliver reports, and proposals. This will allow for the timely removal of what was bad in the past period of time, i.e. the timely response when a problem arises with our important asylum seekers in the EU. But this will also monitor the positive consequences of migration in Serbia. So, from the very point of view of the issue that we are talking about today, about the management of migration, it also comes from the importance of the legislative proposal. The proposal offers answers to a number of open issues that exist at the moment in the area of migration management. Is he going to solve them? We will see this and time will show how this legislative proposal, which is a quality, which offers answers, will be implemented in practice in the next period of time. It is legitimate for the opposition to have a critical look at the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, it's not a topic today. Today the topic is the Proposal for a Law on Migration Management with some findings that could be heard in previous discussions and I can agree in part, but I cannot agree that today we are talking about something that is a technical issue. Simply, this is not a technical issue, it is an issue of exceptional importance and exceptional importance for Serbia. The law systematically regulates the conditions and procedures for achieving comprehensive and continuous migration management. It is in line with the primary sources of EU law as well as with a number of secondary rights sources in the EU. Full harmonisation with secondary sources will be achieved through sublegal acts to be adopted after the adoption of this legislative proposal. The problem of migration exists in other European countries, in EU countries. With a large number of states, Serbia has already signed, or ratified, bilateral or multilateral contracts. These contracts mainly relate to readmission and asylum. Otherwise, this is said in the opening statement, the issue of refugees, migrants, asylum seekers is complex, not only treated by this legislative proposal that we are talking about today. This law is a basic framework for the systematic resolution of migrant issues, and other laws dealing with this area include the Law on Asylum, the Law on Refugees, the Law on the Protection of State Borders, the Law on Citizenship and many others. Finally, I want to say that we are of course ready to discuss in particular, we are ready to consider amendments that will be proposed on this legislative proposal and to support some that will improve the quality of this legal text, the content of this legislative proposal, but once again, I want to be absolutely clear and absolutely precise to say that the SPS Parliament Club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3809	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic. He's not in the O.R. The next reported one is MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3810	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable and Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Commissioner for Refugees and Displaced Persons, we are here today discussing one of the most important laws in our country. The entry into force of this Law on Migration Management of Refugees, which was educated by the Law on Refugees from 2002 to 2010, continues to work under the name of the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration, and its work is expanded in part and has been established by this, as explained in other laws. However, the name Commissioner for Refugees and Migration may not be the most adequate. Maybe you should think about it because maybe it should be the Commissioner for Persecutors, displaced faces and migration. Why the exiles? We've heard from previous debaters, such as Mr. Deretta, who has qualified our exiles, I quote him - that they have left the country legally. Which is not true, it is an insult to the exiles, and even if you want to do so for this home. However, I'm sorry that he's not here we're not going to be clear about this term. When we talk about the term itself, I have to say that even previous debaters, especially from the DS, from the LDP, are wrong when they say that this government has not solved certain problems. It's just the other way around. This government gave this law we've been waiting for for for 20 years, ladies and gentlemen, before it was just the Refugees Act. So it's not true what they said and what they called today the new government and the president of the state. I must say for the sake of truth, thank the president of the state, Tomislav Nikolic and the government, headed by Mr. Dacic for giving the citizens of Serbia hope that the Serbian state is working in favour of Serbia and its citizens. Secondly, the attack on the government here, also said this morning on Tomislav Nikolic, is an attack on Serbia's attempt to rise from the penitentiary root, exclusively the guilty, led by the previous government of Boris Tadic and the previous government, in favour of other people's interests, and across our backs. Let me go back to the subject, that's the answer the gentlemen who spoke before, the predecessors, with this law, ladies and gentlemen, about the management of migration, the Commissioner for Refugees, get a broader work cycle, as you yourselves have said here, and for such jobs there must be good professional services to respond to the increased tasks and I urge the Government, not the Commissioner, to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to take special care of these problems. The SNS believes that the Commissioner, as a government body, should monitor the accumulated problems, and I underline this specifically, related to the exiles from the moment of their persecution to the moment of their return from the country from which they were exiled, and the achievement of their legitimate, human, property and other rights acquired, as well as those who have not returned, and have acquired from the country from which certain property, human and acquired rights have been exiled and are located today in the Republic of Serbia. This is a fundamental problem, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and we today practically, the Refugee Commissioner, educated by the Refugees Act, are renaming the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration, which is good from the aspect of the content, which will be dealt with, or implemented by this government body. This is an opportunity for MPs in the RS Assembly, as well as ours, to say their word, both about this body, as well as about the problems of the exiled Serbs, especially those from the Republic of Croatia, as well as displaced persons from the southern Serbian province of KIM, and unfortunately, we have not heard of it here today. I personally believe that we have not pointed out today, the problems that the legislator had not previously in mind. In a time since the outbreak of war in Yugoslavia from 1991 until the end of 1995, Serbian and Serbian citizens have accepted over a million exiled Serbs from the former Yugoslav republics and later from the southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija. It is not true, ladies and gentlemen, that there are now 60,000 Serb exiles. We didn't take them off the list by giving them citizenship, and that's what the previous governments did for 20 years. Now they're looking at us, evasive and displaced and wondering what I'm talking about. Serbian citizens have accepted the exiled Serbs in the best way possible as rarely seen anywhere in the world. In that name, I thank you warmly, in the name of the exiled Serbs, and they will never forget it. However, the former regime authorities did not do the right thing, although the predecessors said they did, all they could for the exiled Serbs, especially for the exiles who came back for unexplainable reasons. I will only list a part of the problems that the former authorities, the former regime, could initiate to solve with the help of the countries created in the former Yugoslavia and the EU, and have not been solved because of the lack of care, incompetence or inertness or other reasons unknown to us. When it comes to the Republic of Croatia and exiled persons, then it is worth one general finding that property, national, civil and other acquired rights of Serbs, especially in return environments, are almost not being realised. What are those problems? This should be discussed today in this assembly, because at first I also stressed that our Commissioner and our government should be monitored from time of persecution to time of return, so those who return and especially those who are today for integration in the Republic of Serbia. Under number one, I will put the return of illegally seized tenant rights of exiled Serbs from the Republic of Croatia. Did we put that on the agenda? Of course not. And if we did, the previous government put it in a strange way, actually donated 42 thousand apartments to the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia did not resolve these 42,000 illegally, which I underline, taken away from the tenant rights of the exiled Serbs, although it was its obligation on the basis of the 2005 Sarajevo Declaration. Why are we talking about this here today? The Republic of Croatia passed a law on areas of special social interest, which is the former Republika Srpska Krajina, by decision of the Parliament of 15 July 2008, and their dwellings have been taken away, exiled by Serbs during Croatian military operations "Bleska" and "Storm". In fact, these apartments are donated to persons, mostly refugees from the Republic of BiH who, believe it or not, BiH has returned both apartments and houses under the pressure of the International Community. What I'm proposing now, actually, is that the SNS has this program, which I'm going to try in some way to suggest to the government and the Commissioner to make it happen. The government of the Republic of Serbia should propose to the government of the Republic of Croatia, to bring a proper legal solution allowing Serbs' dwellings to return their apartments over which they had acquired rights. Furthermore, to enable all citizens, and in this case Serbs, to buy these apartments at the same price paid by former rightholders under the constitutional principle of equality of citizens before the law. If it is not possible to return the same apartments, then it is necessary to build new ones within the same range and squares that they had and provide the same conditions of purchase or fair compensation. Why didn't the previous governments put this on the agenda? I'd like to remind myself of this morning's discussions, although the previous governments boasted that they had solved this, but they didn't put it on the agenda. Secondly, the return of busy movable and immovable property, I'm just going to list a few and give a proposal solution, how the future government that I believe is going to do this, and that's why it applies...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3811	Mr. Atlagic, I don't think this is a subject on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3812	If this isn't a topic, I'm talking about evasive and displaced faces...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3813	Please, get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3814	Chairman, you have the custom of returning me, but this is my profession, if they are not exiled and avoided, migration, then I am not human. I'm sorry, but let me say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3815	I'm sorry, we're not gonna talk about property and vomit...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3816	Yeah, that's what we're gonna talk about...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3817	Not today.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3818	Yeah, that's what we're going to talk about, that's exactly the subject of this law and the Refugees' Commissioner should be handling this, and we're going to legalize Mrs. Chairman today. Let me take it all the way out and don't interrupt me, I'm talking exactly to the Rules of Procedure about the work of the Assembly. The return of busy movable and immovable property, which I'm going to talk about here, how our republican government, the issue of our exiles or emigrants, how better it sounds, how it sounds to you, how we haven't dealt with, I mean the previous government. About a thousand owners of Serbian nationality cannot freely dispose of their homes that were illegally seized during the war and given to use other persons of Croatian nationality, so-called. temporary users. What do I suggest? Or to law, since I see that one part does not understand what it is that our Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the task of the Refugees Committee, is today his task, and I believe that the Commissioners understand what I am talking about, requires the Republic of Croatia to allow the owners of Serbian nationality to freely dispose of their homes that during the war or after the war have been illegally taken away and given to the use of Croats in accordance with the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2006. Please, these are the vital interests of our migrants. Why haven't we done this before? So let the former government answer. I suggest to this government what he's going to do to take this program that we're going to deliver today, so that we can implement the migration law that we're going to do today, hopefully, and bring. Most of the 10,000 Serbian houses were sold illegally, forging, using double contracts, etc. via the Real Estate Agency, founded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in April 1997. I propose to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to ask the Republic of Croatia, how to request, so, gentlemen, our ministers have often visited the Republic of Croatia for the past 10 years, I ask the question, have they ever put these problems on the agenda? Of course not. To this government, which we believe will put this on the agenda, we are proposing that they put the problem of our migrants, who have been emigrated to the Republic of Serbia under the threat of war, therefore, to demand that they cancel the contracts concluded on the basis of false powers or double contracts, etc. But believe it or not, to see what the problems of these migrants are, there are about 10,000 Serb families living in larger Croatian cities by war, no one is talking about them. They were forced to contract their houses and apartments because of pressure and threats, why not discuss it here today? There's no discussion on any forum. Do you know where the argument is? In the associations of refugees and displaced persons, they have neither competence nor right nor resources, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly, gentlemen. I propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia to ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to bring an appropriate legal solution to the Council of the Republic of Croatia, which will authorise the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to cancel by applying the annex "G"The Agreement on Succession the exchange agreements of which the owners of which lived until the war in larger Croatian cities were forced to make the contrary to their free will and against international standards because of the pressure. These are the key problems of migrants, on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I hope will lead in the future. Furthermore, since 1997, after the adoption of the Property Act, the Republic of Croatia has registered as owner of over 800,000 cadastrian particles, whose owners, i.e. cadastrian owners were Serbs by 1995 and intends to register to the remaining 700,000 cadastrian particles by 2015. These catastrian owners were exiled Serbs, or if you will, today, migrants, here in the Republic of Serbia. I propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia, to propose to the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia or the Government, an appropriate legal solution that will allow the country to return to its real owners, which the Republic of Croatia has entered in land books as owner. Therefore, it is 800,000 cadastrian particles and suspend the adoption of a decision by the courts in Croatia on the registration of the state as the owner of the remaining 700 cadastrian particles, to bring an appropriate legal solution to allow the exiled Serbs, with the support of, normally, the states to be entered as owners of land books by 2015 until the transitional state is foreseen. To explain what this is about, these immigrants are here today in Serbia, but because of certain legal solutions they are unable to translate them for certain reasons, because they are not there as returnees and do not meet the conditions, they do not have agrotechnical measures. So, you see, the problems are not only – we gave refugees citizenship and solved problems and expelled them across the border to Croatia and I don't care. It's just the law that says that we have to keep an eye on the day of exile to the day of return and the exercise of the rights they had before migration. Furthermore, the Law on Agricultural Land of the Republic of Croatia prescribed high fines for not processing land. According to agritechnical measures, and this particularly affects the exiled Serbs from Croatia because they will be left without the country because they do not have the means to pay fines, and they do not have the conditions for a sustainable return, let alone the acquisition of agrotechnical funds. It's normal to take it away from them. I propose that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to suspend the application of higher fines for not processing the country, according to exiled Serbs, because they are unable to process the country or pay the fines. The refurbishment, believe it or not, concluded between the Croatian state and the owner of the houses, means Serbian migrants, among other things, says that the owner of the house must return within one year, i.e. from the day of use of the permit and if no conditions are created for a sustainable return. What do I suggest? I propose to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia should make an appropriate solution to amend the provision of the Treaty on Reconstruction between the State of Croatia and the owners of destroyed houses, in this case Serbs, on the return of funds, if the exiled Serbs do not always stay in the restored house, because the applicable provisions in the Treaty violate the right to free movement of beneficiaries of funds on reconstruction, etc. You see, I have to tell you, especially to you, Madam Minister, because you are here as a representative of the Prime Minister, I believe Mr Dacic knows what this is all about, Croatia is constantly bringing some, to apologize, toothpicks to prevent Serbs from entering their property and other acquired rights. Believe it or not, the next problem is very huge – the payment of outstanding pensions. In two sentences, since October 1991, 500 000 Serbs, users of Croatian pensions, who have continued to live outside the control of Croatian authorities in the midst of wartime events, have either been exiled to Serbia, Montenegro or elsewhere. They lost their pensions, although they had received them before, that is, the payment of the same pensions was suspended by a simple act by the Croatian Pension Fund. What do I suggest? I propose that the Government of the Republic of Serbia propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the Croatian Parliament pass a law on pension insurance, which will allow the payment of paid and outstanding pensions from the exiled Serbs. It's an average debt of 81 pensions, it's a huge amount of money. Mr. Cucic is here. Has anyone set this up? Of course not before. Was that the job of the former government? Of course it is, you're not gonna say it isn't. Furthermore, the recognition of a full-time job, believe it or not, until 1991 and the qualification of a job internship with recognised contributions for the period of war 1991 to 1995, do you know what happened? The Croatian state does not recognise Serbs or what they were doing until the war, in fact, part of the exiled Serbs is not recognised part of the job effort, which they acquired by 1991, with an explanation that they did not pay the contribution. At the same time, citizens of Croatian nationality in the same companies, do not have such a problem, this is only one excuse. For many exiles, the problem of conqualification of the employment period for the period 1991 to 1995 is, please, even though they get it, they don't admit it financially. These are such degradations and such humiliations and the endangerment of human rights, such as do not exist, not in Europe anymore, but in the world as well. Requesting recognition of a full-time training for Serbs as recognised and citizens of Croatian nationality by 1991, and proposing to the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia to pass a law on qualifications, which will allow simple procedures for the qualification of the employment period from 1991 to 1995 and recognition in financial terms. This is the problem this country is silent about, and shouldn't be silent about, paying off foreign and dinar savings. Believe it or not, the exiled Serbs from the Republic of Croatia are foreign foreign currency savings in "Yugobanka" Split. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3819	Mr. Atlagic, will you tell me you're back on the subject? We're talking about foreign savings now. Please return to the topic. You've been talking for 22 minutes and six seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3820	Madam Chairman, I'm using the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3821	Please, just go back to the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3822	Please, so I'm talking about rights, it's on the agenda of migration, migrants and their rights, to assess lawyers and citizens of Serbia and the government. Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3823	Mr. Atlagic, I am responsible for this session. So it's up to me to assess whether you're on the subject or not. Please let me, if I don't think so, let me tell you that. Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3824	You tell me, this isn't the first time. Don't interrupt me, please. I'm on the subject, the lawyers and the government's representative know very well. It's about paying for the foreign and dinar savings of exiled Serbs or, if you want to translate, migrants. The Migration Act is on the agenda. What am I supposed to talk about then? Do you want me to speak another language? You want English, you want Russian, so let's get along? (Neđa Jovanovic, from the place: The Injury of the Businessman. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3825	Mr. Atlagic, since this discussion has already gone in some direction, and I have a breach of the Rules of Procedure from here, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3826	I have no intention of ending this until I bring up all the problems of war-ridden migrants, and that means Serbs who are watching this today, and previous governments had no intention of solving this. Madam Chairman, if you're up to it, I'll interrupt, but I won't interrupt because I know I'm speaking in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This isn't the first time you've interrupted me, and last time you interrupted me at the session. So, I'm talking about the Migration Act and the Migration Commissioner and refugees and displaced persons and the work cycle. Gentlemen, am I talking about it or not? (Neđa Jovanovic, from the place: The Injury of the Businessman. Please don't interrupt me. The chairman, tell, please, the MP to let me bring it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3827	I didn't take your word for it, just keep going. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3828	Calm the messengers of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3829	They've calmed down.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3830	Please, this is about "Yugoban" Split. This is an unprecedented violation of human rights. To this day, none of the exiles or migrants, according to the Serb nationality, have received an old foreign currency savings, and every Croatian national has received the foreign currency savings. It's not about "Yugobans" Belgrade. The explanation of our migrants, or the migrants of returnees or migrants who are present in the Republic of Serbia, gives them an explanation – when a succession occurs. It has nothing to do with this problem. I think that even the pies to our evasive and displaced, I really ask you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that at least we have the dignity to listen to these problems, if we can't solve them already. Next - a problem for non-participation in the privatisation process. In Croatia, the privatisation process was completed, but without the exiled Serbs who left the largest number of years of employment in Croatian businesses. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia that it propose to the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Parliament to adopt an appropriate legal solution enabling Serbs to participate in privatisation in the way that it is applied to all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The next problem – reviewing the verdicts for early crimes committed in the absence of the defendants. Today, many of our citizens are here in the Republic of Serbia, and they were tried in absentia. Fair and uniform processing of war crimes and the termination of ethnically motivated trials, we suggest that our government put this on the agenda with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The next problem – the end of the exhumation process, today you talked about the identification of missing persons. Believe it or not, these are difficult problems. In the previous period we had three basics – through Veritas, through our MUP, etc. If this is already being done by the Commissioner for Refugees, I suggest that's all he does. You see how complicated these are, and some people are in a hurry to get out of this room? Gentlemen, our refugees are in no hurry. You don't interrupt me until we bring up the problems, because this law has been waiting 17 years. Where are the messengers who spoke now? Let the camera show. It's easy to say four sentences and get out of this room. So, the end of the missing persons identification process. In the Republic of Croatia, believe it or not, it is located and is known for more than 600 graves containing the remains of Serbs. What do I suggest? I propose that the government of the Republic of Serbia requires that the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia exhume and identify the remaining remains of Serbs and hand them over to their families. There are no safe conditions for Serbs to return to the Republic of Croatia. Over the past few months, Mr. Spainovic, who has been found dead in his house with a five-point lead. If you were reading the press, even then the government at the time, headed by Mr. Cvetkovic, even then the president did not react at all. I thought Mr. Tadic would when he met Milanovic in Dubrovnik, although he did shake hands with him there, but he may not have asked him why he found our returner dead in his house. Ladies and gentlemen, today there were no words of exile from Kosovo and Metohija, so I'm going to say three, four sentences. Banished Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija live, as well as exiled Krajisniks, the most tragic moments in the history of their existence. The return of Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija is slow due to the inadmissible engagement of the international community. How is it that the international community in 1999 has returned the Albanian nation's population in eight days and they say over several hundred thousand Albanians and cannot bring back Serbs in 12 years or 20,000? So there is no goodwill or international community, and there is no goodwill or Albanian side. As for migrants who have decided to stay here in Serbia, the SNS has an extraordinary work plan and local communities. She is willing to offer local communities to integrate this most vulnerable group today in Europe here in the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, previous authorities and the Government did not resolve this, but we will monitor the Government's authorities and the Refugees' Commissioner whether these problems will be put on the agenda when the ministers of the two states meet, especially when it comes to the Republic of Croatia and our authority from their work cycle when they meet, either in Croatia, either here in Serbia. So much will be ours and the assessment of these ministers in four years, possibly. Now, as it started, it's going well, all the preparations are going well, the only question is whether we're going to realize this. In the end, the President-in-Office, thank you for letting me bring up the accumulated problems of the exiled Serbs, even though you interrupted me, and it was all in line with the Rules of Procedure. It shall serve, if it is not, for my honor, and for you, if you have sinned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3831	National MP Nedjo Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3832	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members of the People, Minister, representatives of the Resor in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I report after the violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. With the utmost respect of Mr Atlagic, who has indeed affirmed the current issues which undoubtedly deserve attention, and how they differ from the agenda point, bearing in mind that the Migration Act does not address the issues that Mr Atlagic is an affirmative. What is important to point out is that this debate would not go further into unnecessary waste of energy and waste of time, that these issues be resolved when the Assembly decides that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act, which Mr Atlagic spoke of, contracts between the Republic of Serbia and Croatia, on status issues of citizens of Serbia or of Serbs from Croatia, and on other legal or sublegal acts. Now that is not the point of the agenda and it is not debated, so it is my appeal that, in the course of the session of this assembly, we will be exclusively at the agenda point, and that is exclusively in terms of what we are talking about today, and that is the Law on Migration. I ask all MPs to continue their discussion in that spirit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3833	Thank you. Mr. Atlagic, you have no right to a replica. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to a replica. We're moving on. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Djurovic. Here you go. Mr. Atlagic, I give you a warning. [[(Marco Atlagic, from the site: Looking for a replica. He has spoken falsely.]] Miss Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3834	The President-in-Office, respected representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, fellow MPs, is ahead of us today with a proposal for a law on migration, which is of paramount importance for Serbian citizens in the process of Eurointegration. The establishment of a functional migration management system, including the asylum issue, is one of the commitments Serbia expects on its way to the EU. The issue of migration has ceased to be an issue of exceptional importance only for a particular group of people who have a desire and interest to leave the country and ask a question important to all Serbian citizens since the EU asked the issue of visa-free removal. This caused unrest among Serbian citizens, so we could hear often questions about whether these threats were serious and whether the newly formed government of the Republic of Serbia made some mistakes, leading to the activation of this problem, which would affect all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think the assembly speaker is the right place to inform citizens and point out that the problem of fake asylum seekers is the problem Serbia has been facing for many years. It's not something that's been activated in the last few months. On the contrary, the number of asylum seekers in the EU countries from Serbia has been reduced in time, in order to reactivate the problem in September. Most in Germany, due to the increased social spending adopted by Germany and started to give asylum seekers, while the decision-making process lasted on whether to approve someone's stay in the country, others were entitled to economic assistance all the time during the procedure. It was a way for many poor citizens to survive the winter. When it comes to false asylum seekers, it is important to note that poverty is at the root of that phenomenon. The largest number of citizens seeking asylum in EU countries are members of the Roma population, who are not sufficiently educated what asylum really represents and their motive is only economic. Belgium, Germany, Luxembourg and Sweden remain the main destinations of migrants. Partly due to the duration of the asylum approval procedure, and hence the length of the authorised stay. The longer the asylum resolution period, the more attractive the country is. Most people know they won't be allowed to stay, but that's what they get in time. If we make comparisons with Austria, a country that is geographically much closer to Serbia and has no problem with false asylum seekers, that is because Austria has put Serbia in the category of safe countries. Every week, asylum applications are decided. Thus, citizens have no interest in going there and risk being deported immediately back to the country. This has led us to a solution to this problem, which is that Europe can help a lot of Serbia in this direction if these countries put Serbia in a safe country of origin, which means that the country from which the asylum seekers came respect international principles and standards on the protection of rights. This would significantly speed up the procedures for resolving asylum requirements for Serbian citizens, thus losing interest in certain categories of population to go this way. It is essential that Serbia connects the issue of Roma emigration firmly with different affirmative measures that will contribute to their inclusion in Serbian society. Recently, we had amendments to the Law on extraparnical procedure, allowing citizens to receive personal documents, which will help them exercise their right to health care, education and other rights. The European Commission has asked Serbia to launch a campaign, aimed at better informing the population and to strengthen border control. I don't think that would solve the problem, because many citizens who seek asylum already know in advance that they will be rejected, but they are only getting into it so that a certain period of time can use economic benefits. Also, the requirement for enhanced border control is discriminatory, as almost all applicants are asylum seekers Roma, and then the issue of their discrimination is raised. I recall that one of the important requirements for obtaining visa liberalisation was to allow all citizens to travel and to have travel documents, especially those of Roma and other minorities. The bill provides for the establishment of new responsibilities of the Commissioner for Refugees, which relate to the area of migration management and provides for the Commissioner for Refugees to continue working under the name of the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration. This will make the problem of migration more serious, which is a positive shift compared to the approach so far. The draft law regulates a single system of collection, organisation and exchange of data which is relevant for the management of migration and provides for the exchange of data between the authorities of the state administration responsible for individual segments of migration. So far, a problem has already been identified in Serbia that has hampered the country's serious work on this issue, which is that competencies have been shared between several state administration authorities, among which coordination is lacking. This bill removes this problem and establishes a single system with accurate and complete data, migration-related statistics, as well as regular updates of the migration profile of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that the creation of a migration profile for Southeast European countries started already in 2008, and that Serbia itself developed a migration profile in 2010. Regular updates of the migration profile are needed not only for the management of migration flows but also for the approximation of EU standards. The bill also regulates the education of migration councils in the territory of the AP and local self-government, as well as training and training of persons performing tasks of importance for the management of migration. Serbia is on the main road for migrants from Asian and African countries to Western Europe leading through Turkey, Greece, Macedonia. In recent years, asylum requirements have been increased from those countries, due to long-term armed conflicts resulting in a large number of people passing through, not with the goal of keeping them in Serbia, but to reaching a final destination, which are EU countries. With all this in mind, it is necessary to strengthen the capacity of the state authorities involved in this topic, to create the infrastructure needed for the accommodation of asylum seekers, as well as a common strategy of all levels of government what is needed to do in the area of their acceptance, in order to avoid negative reactions in the local environment, which has already happened in the case of the Koviljača spa. This bill is one of the steps towards a serious state strategy, related to population migration problems, and that is why I urge you to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3835	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3836	I didn't mean to pour oil on the fire. I am advocating the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, because you simply couldn't in one general confusion between members of the ruling regime, between SNS members and the SPS, or between the two camps. It was that level that threatened the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This could not be considered marking a hundred days of government work, because we felt very uncomfortable as members of the opposition. Simply, taking words without giving the speaker the right to speak, then getting up, throwing, etc., is not what the National Assembly deserves. I thank you for your efforts, but I ask you to be more rigorous if possible, because perhaps before giving your first warning before that you could make a few warnings. You've been gentle. I understand that you're trying to give freedom to the MPs, but it's really gone too far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3837	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3838	Dear Chairman, I call on article 105. I will read it – no one can speak at a session of the National Assembly before asking and receiving a word from the president of the National Assembly. Mr. Nejo, on account of all the messengers and you, while I was speaking, stood up and spoke. Isn't that right, Mr. Nejo? Although he was talking about what, I'm sorry, but he totally doesn't understand this law, and the previous speaker is talking about a fight, and now he's in the O.R. We don't fight. We are talking about one topic for the benefit of Serbian citizens and refugees and displaced persons. Please warn the MP in the future. If you won't tell him, at least warn him with a warning, like me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3839	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mrs. Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3840	Thank you. I am truly scandalned by the violation of article 109 by the Vice-President of Parliament, when you gave notice to the MP on the grounds that he was talking about an issue that was not on the agenda, although you had previously warned him. I must warn you, then, that in the future, you are reading the draft laws that are on the agenda. This would be the most beautiful way to perform your function and not come into such an inappropriate situation. Therefore, the Proposal for a Law on Migration Management, among other things, defines in Article 8, the competence of the Commissioner, who, among other things, refers to and to, and I will, for the sake of citizens who may not be fully familiar with the Bill's proposal, read a little less than two minutes, to carry out tasks for the Commission's needs for missing persons, which is educated by the Government and maintains the unique records of missing persons in armed conflicts and related to armed conflicts in the area of the former SFRY from 1991 to 1995 and the AP Kosovo and Metohija from 1998 to 2000, keeps records of eshumated identified and unidentified remains from individual and mass graves, issues of facts on which official records are kept, the cost of exhumation, etc. I could read and spend my two minutes on this. Therefore, Mr Atlagic spoke in line with what he is the subject of this bill. I truly believe that you have violated the Rules of Procedure of Rule 109 and that you have unfoundedly given notice to the People's Messenger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3841	Thank you. I believe that I acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and gave the notice to Mr Atlagic in accordance with Article 109. Rules of Procedure. If you wish, this may be stated in the voting day. (Jadranka Joksimovic, from the place: Yes, I do. You wish, okay. Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Nedo Jovanovic, after being mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3842	First and foremost, I would like to say that here a classic type of abuse by Mr. Janko Veselinović has been tried, that we have come into some kind of conflict or quarrel, which is absolutely untrue. My well-intentioned motive was just to show what was the point of the agenda. I'll apologize to Mr. Atlagic and all the SNS committees if I wasn't well understood. I simply believe that the discussion was outside the scope of what the law and the proposal of the law intended. I will again point out, with the respect of Mr Atlagic, that I believe that everything he has pointed out in his speech is very affirmative, that it implies topics which and how they deserve attention, that these are very current topics, that they can be somewhat compatible with the law in some way, but not in the spirit of the law, as the system law provides. In any case, in order for us not to develop discussion and controversy, I will withdraw what I just said in the sense that in any way Mr Atlagic pointed out something that does not stand. It's all facts. But in relation to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Madam Chairman, first you reacted and pointed out to the MP what it means to speak exclusively in the spirit of the agenda point. So, in a particular case, it's not about any conflict, not a fight. There's no need to abuse something that doesn't stand. You don't need to impute, especially not the SPS, which in this coalition structure is participating with full capacity... (President: Time. ) I end up, and which in the best possible way contributes to the quality of government being felt in front of citizens and thus represent something that does not exist. I thank you, thank you too, Mr. Atlagic. I'm sorry if you didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3843	The word has been made by the People's MP Ranka Savik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3844	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, dear colleagues, between this debate of former and current attempts to get back on the subject, by having one moral obligation to remind the former, but to God and the present, that these former ones would not have been former if they had possibly passed different laws, better laws, that they had worked better and implemented those laws. That's why I'm going back to the migration management law. I really think it's a good thing that the law was finally passed, or that migration law was passed. In my deep belief, migration is institutional, but also practical, no one has dealt in this country, and therefore, no one has been in charge, but no one has been responsible. However, it is not good that we are re-administering a law, which, in my deep conviction, is not systematic and that in one much more content and better way, we do not approach migration management and solve the huge problems they face. In my opinion, too, one very bad decision being sent is to deal with the migrations of the Refugee Commissioner. Somehow it seems to me that anyone who comes to Serbia, who comes out of it, who comes from the village to the city, from a smaller place to a bigger city, besides being subjective and felt, will, in practice, still have the treatment of the refugees, by the fact that his fate and his problems will be the responsibility of the Commissioner for Refugees. On the other hand, I am not entirely sure that the Commissioner for Refugees has both capacities and institutional and organisational and human. I think the Commissioner for Refugees already has too much to do. In this regard, I must remind myself that there are now 80,000 refugees living in our country, with 210,000 internally displaced persons. I don't want anyone to get me wrong, the role of the Commissioner for Refugees is highly appreciated and respected, but in the business they need to deal with and which they are founded for. Speaking of this, I need Serbian lawmakers and citizens to remind me that there are about 138 different agencies in our country. Soon we even had the Maritime Traffic Agency. In addition to all announcements that there will be a reduction in the number of agencies, it was those pre-election promises, only seven agencies have been abolished. It is perfectly logical that I ask the question – is the management of migration of such little importance to this country that we could not form a single special body that would deal with only and exclusively with the issue of migration? I think we all agree that migration is one of the most important macroeconomic issues, but that they are in a causal and consequential relationship with economic issues and all the economic problems of a country. Therefore, to look at and deal with migration as a statistical phenomenon, and in my opinion, this law deals mainly with it – who, as well as how it collects data, or treat migration as a sociological phenomenon outside the context of the economy, I think is a strategic error with a pre-known result. Migrations are the result of economic decisions and movements. They have a crucial impact on the economy. Unfortunately, the law only mentions economic development in one place, and it is precisely economic development that is fundamental if not the only leverage for planning, directing and leading migration policy. I had plenty more to say about this law, however, not wanting to repeat myself since many MPs have already spoken about what I wanted to say, here I am going to finish, by my conviction that migration is a fundamental issue and deserve a more serious, more contentable law, adequate meaning and the roles that migration has in each country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3845	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will work after 18.00 hours, in order to be effective in the work of the National Assembly, that is because of the need for proposals from the agenda of this session to be carried out as soon as possible. I'm setting a break for an hour. We'll be back to work at 4:25 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3846	Dear fellow Members of the People, we continue our work. The next on the list of registered MPs is MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3847	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the very word of migration in translation means migration or migration. That's a very common case in this country. The causes of migration can be natural, social and economic. They're natural because of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, Catherine, Sandy, that hit that country they were supposed to hit. Social causes can be: wars, political intolerance. Unfortunately, we've had that in these premises of the former SFRY. Economic causes of migration can be: hunger, poverty, the pursuit of better living conditions, which is also not foreign to these areas. The types of migration can be: internal and external, final and temporary, voluntary and forced, economic and non-economic. Of all that, we didn't just have temporary migration. If we were to exclude the reading, we didn't have any temporary migrations. So when someone from this country emigrates, it emigrates permanently. As far as internal migration is concerned, those who are interested in me, this law does not cover. These are migrations or the spatial deployment of the population, which has already occurred by excessive industrialization since 1945 and beyond, the rural population has been sucked into large cities thanks to the collapse of a non-market economy. So now we have industrially dead cities and relaxed villages. Someone here said that during the year a Milanese disappeared, or 35,000 people died more than they were born. It is said that a city disappears, which is not entirely true because cities disappear, villages disappear. So instead of one city, a hundred villages disappear annually, which corresponds to the population of a city. I think the cities were left for later. Also, something that is not mentioned here is forced migration, and Serbia has suffered a great deal, given the migration that followed, because in these areas during the war, forced migration, i.e. immigration and immigration took place. Serbia, in those migrations, which some have called ethnic cleansing, was mainly identified as the main culprit, so I would like to say a few words, if you please, about that. Since 1990, 700,000 refugees have entered Serbia, exiled or internally displaced. So, just over 10% of the population. That wasn't the case in the surrounding republics. The 400,000 did not return from refugees, took the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. So they didn't go back to where they were forced to move. 580,000 Serbs lived in Croatia. Thanks to forced migration, 380,000 people were emigrated permanently. So today, Croatia numbers only 201,000 inhabitants. There are over 200,000 people from Serbia's province. The number of Serbs, or percentage of Serbs in Kosovo, fell from 15% to 7%. The number of Serbs in the Bosnian Federation, 500,000 people lived before 1991, and now lives, thanks to migration, 50,000 inhabitants. In that large multiethnic city, Sarajevo, 150,000 Serbs lived before the 1991 war, and now there are barely 5,000. In Tuzla, also another multiethnic city, they say, lived 40,000 Serbs before the war, and now there are 2,000. The number of Serbs in Zenica and Mostar is almost negligible after the war. When we take all these cases and compare it with Serbia, 66.5% of Serbs lived in Serbia in 1991, and now including Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, 66-67% of Serbs live. I'm saying that the ethnic picture, fortunately, did not change significantly in Serbia compared to 1991. When we compare the number of Croats living in Serbia, in 1991 there were 1.1% and in 2001 there were about 1%. So it moved out about 0.1%. If we take those examples that I have already cited, we will conclude that the state, which has been accused of ethnic cleansing, has not changed its ethnic composition, while everyone around it has changed that ethnic composition to the detriment of the Serb population. In my opinion, an accusation or accuse Serbia of committing ethnic cleansing, without accusing the leadership and states that were once together with Serbia in the SFRY, does not stand. Serbia has an accident that emigration and immigration could not participate in Serbia. On the one hand, there are empty historic Serb territories in the former Yugoslav republics. The population is shrinking in the state of Serbia and thanks to unfavourable economic opportunities, lack of economic activity, the population has moved, and more than 400,000 Serbs have moved out of Serbia since 1990. If we take information that they were mostly young people, then we should think well of a disaster that is possible. That's why we in Serbia today have a population that is the oldest in Europe. So, on the one hand, the population is moving into Serbia thanks to forced emigration from the former Yugoslav republics, and on the other, due to economic difficulties, it emigrates. I am particularly disappointed that after the change in 2000, the situation has not improved, and that the emigration of the population from Serbia continues, because no real political, economic reforms have been implemented, which the money we were in charge of has not gone into our economy, but has mostly gone for the purchase of foreign goods, has not gone through our production, has not come to our workers through salaries, but has gone directly through the procurement of foreign goods for the resuscitation of foreign production from countries where the money came from and where the goods came from. If this continues to Serbia, according to research, emigration of another 400,000 inhabitants, the average age of such emigration will be about 40 years, and if we assume that it has emigrated already 150,000 highly educated persons from Serbia since 1990 to today, which by US standards has caused damage to Serbia's education of more than 30 billion dollars, if we take 24 to 25% of the population that could emigrate to a highly educated population, then you can understand the damage that Serbia can suffer by emigration, and especially the damage that the Serb population in the region has suffered from excessive emigration from the former Yugoslav republics, including from the territory of the AP, where only one night in March 2004, after the burning of 30 monasterys and 900 houses, an additional 4,000 Serbs. So unless Serbia corrects its economic situation, we, as a people, have nothing to look for in our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3848	Thank you. Next, Mr. Petar Petkovic was reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3849	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we have before us a bill on the management of migration. In the form in which they received this bill, he is in front of us for the first time. However, the state of Serbia is also familiar with migration policy. Therefore, I will mention that there is a government strategy on migration management, which was adopted in 2009 and mentioning the Action Plan for implementation and the 2011 and 2012 strategy. A certain definition of migration issues exists, but as we can see much has not been done. I hope that this law will make this area much better. I would like, during this discussion of my own, that is, to point out two things in particular, which are essential to the implementation of this law, if the Assembly adopts it. The first is, and this is mentioned in the strategy itself, but it is also one of the definitions when we talk about the management of migration, or migration policy, that one of the basic systems or elements for the management of migration also makes the regime of integrated border management. So you know well that even in the government's strategy itself, let me just point out, this regime is used as a system of state-level borders. I also mention that the current prime minister, in the previous government of 2009 and the interior minister, signed this today, with the director of the European External Border Management Agency, is the European Agency "Protex", which deals specifically with the issue of integrated border management, but as a system relating to the external borders of EU member states. Also, in the Lisbon Treaty, which represents a kind of surrogate for an EU constitution that has not been adopted, integrated border management is also mentioned as achieving good neighbourly relations in terms of achieving the highest forms of co-operation between the two neighbouring countries. I listed all of this for a simple reason to show that the integrated border management regime marks exactly the state line. What the previous government, or Borko Stefanovic, signed in Brussels, and regarding IBM, or integrated border management, is nothing more than establishing a state border between Kosovo and the rest of Serbia. This issue is very important when we talk about this law because it directly affects the flow of migration management and in many ways it now regulates the issue, among other things – does accepting this agreement, over 200,000 internally displaced Serbs with KIM, get refugee status? What I'm saying is that a wide range of issues directly affecting the government's decision, if she decides to accept integrated border management, and we know from one side, and in the very exposé, that this is a government policy, there's a commitment to implement everything that's agreed in Brussels. We had opportunities last Thursday to hear government officials say they have to implement everything that is agreed in Brussels, because it is an international obligation, an international legal obligation. There is no international legal obligation, especially when a paraphras puts one clerk in Brussels and thus obliges the state of Serbia, above all under the Vienna Convention on Contract Law. This is not about any agreement that has an international legal character, but something that would define an agreed conclusion that as such our legal system of the state of Serbia does not know. It is therefore very important that in this proposal, the issue of integrated border management has been resolved somewhere or a certain mechanism has been created in the case of IBM, on the one hand, but if there is a commitment of the Government to fulfill what is agreed in Brussels, does this mean that, among other things, this law represents the preparation of the ground, because nothing is said here and what an important element, when we talk about migration policy. You cannot say – yes, this law is in accordance with the Constitution, it is understood, Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia. Gentlemen, if things had been understood before, then it would not be necessary to place in the preamble that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia, and it has now been seen that this is the very constitution, which was firstly adopted by Vojislav Kostunica and DSS, which was adopted unanimously in this parliament, today represents a dam for the disintegration of the Serbian state. Another topic I would like to complete my presentation concerns our Serbian diaspora. In fact, in the very strategy behind this bill, it is said that the most numerous group of migrants is exactly the group that makes up our diaspora. And that we have the right and we need to talk about what the relationship of the Serbian state towards our diaspora is and to point to their problems, because depending on how to solve these problems and the issue of migration management will also have a certain positive effect. Therefore, when we talk about this relationship between the state of Serbia and the diaspora, I must point out that it is bad that there is no diaspora office and Serbs in the region. I also want to say that in 2009, the previous Government passed the Diaspora Act, which is a law that is a dead letter on paper. Just to say one small segment, within the framework of the law, there is supposed to be a diaspora assembly and a Serb assembly in the region. You know that since 2009, when the law was passed, that assembly has met twice and barely passed the labour rule. You know how important it would be now, for example. As far as migration is concerned, we can ask the diaspora Assembly what she thinks about it, because as far as she's concerned, it's a problem. No, we just had ministers come in, give a speech to open up the congregation, break up and delegates stay with themselves. Again, there is no telling how many delegates this congregation has. The law says 45, and after a report is passed, 51 delegates. This is how the state of Serbia treated the diaspora. I am a member of the Committee on Diaspora of the Serbian Parliament and, believe me, I get hair on my head when I hear stories of people coming and we receive them in the Serbian Parliament to tell us their problems. I don't know if you know that a new constitution was adopted in Hungary in 2012. Under the new constitution of the basic law, national minorities, including the Serb national minority that has existed there for centuries, have been wiped out. Has anyone asked that question, since these representatives of the Serbian people living in Hungary do not have their own representation in parliament, nor do they have the right to political organisation, etc., has anyone in bilateral relations during the previous government, and this is also the issue for the current government, raised the issue in the talks? Of course not. Second, what's going on with Croatia? When it comes to the relationship between Serbia and Croatia, the only thing we have is playing Boris Tadic's guitar together with President Josipovic, hugging, kissing and nothing more. About 200,000 Serbs live in Croatia today, and 600,000 lived before the war. Our diaspora is falling apart, and there is less Serbian living, both in the region and in the diaspora, not only because we are extinct as a people, but also because there is an exceptional assimilation. Has anyone asked what is wrong with the tenant rights of Serbs in Croatia and why infrastructure facilities are not being solved in settlements where they are trying to return? Do you know that there is a company called Privrednik, which cannot restore its property from 2,000 square meters in the center of Zagreb, although there is more than 100 years, and the reason is - because there was no continuity since 1945 when the property was confiscated until today? In doing so, there are other such associations that have returned property with one comma - they worked until there was no continuity in achieving the interest of the Croatian state. So, discrimination at every turn. It's the same in Germany. We have almost received a delegation of Serbian writers from Frankfurt, saying that literally one letter cannot be printed and that it is funded by the German government, by some book that is in Serbian. These are very important and serious issues, especially when we talk about these countries that are big democracies, how they respect human and minority rights, and all in all we see is that our people there are left alone to fight, that there is no state behind that will stand and watch his back and still help him. (President: Mr. Petkovic, unfortunately, your parliamentary group's time is up. You can finish your sentence. Let me finish. Article 5 of this bill states that migration management is achieved by improving the situation and protecting the rights of members of the diaspora and Serbs in the region, preserving, strengthening and achieving links between members of the diaspora and Serbs in the region with the Republic of Serbia. If the Diaspora Act didn't do anything, do you think this bill is going to make something better? It's time for us to do something about our people in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3850	Before we go any further, after the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish a mandate for the MPs in the National Assembly for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the seats of MPs to fill the seats in the National Assembly. You have also received a report from the Administrative Board that has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with the MPs, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Radmila Kostic, elected from the electoral list "Let's Start Serbia" – Tomislav Nikolic and Radoslav Komnenovic, selected from the election list Ivica Dačić – SPS – PUPS – JS. On the basis of the decision of the Republic Election Commission, the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Radmila Kostic and Radoslav Komnenovic. I congratulate the MPs of the election and ask them to repeat the text of the oath after me. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) "I swear to uphold the duty of the National Envoy to carry out committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice" I ask the Members of Parliament to sign the text of the oath. We're going back to work. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3851	Ladies and gentlemen, for the Roma Party and for me as a member of the SNS Parliament Club, when we talk about migration, it is extremely important that we look at them from two positions, or from two different angles. One angle is, in any case, everything we do with this law, to defend some of the state's interests and that the state of Serbia and towards the International Community, and according to itself, in this area is extremely correct and meets certain goals and certain things that it has set before it. But there's another angle. We can't deal with migration issues without talking about people who are affected by these events, and in that sense we're solving things in such a way that we don't think enough about people who suffer different bad influences because of it. In that sense, I will also talk about a specific case that is happening and that is known to the Refugees Commissioner, that we have also had representatives of the Roma National Community and representatives of the Serb community and others who lived in Serbia, and we cannot say that back in these 15 years they have always been consulted when it comes to resolving their position. On the contrary, major abuses took place. We had a situation that representatives of state authorities, together with some NGOs, had received serious funding, but these funds did not end with end-users, in people who needed to be resolved by the socio-economic situation. Instead of ending up here, they ended up in some other suspicious channels. People who came from Leskovec, who lived in Belgrade, and even in the difficult situation of people who came from Kosovo to Belgrade, were welcomed by some politicians by statements -- return from where you came from, were welcomed by the statements of some politicians by the fact that out of the hundreds of thousands of dinars they were supposed to get, 20 thousand were given to them, and 80,000 were given to representatives of NGOs, who played some sort of bond between the state authorities and them. In this context, I believe that the Prime Minister should pay attention to the amendment that I have submitted, whose essence is going towards it, the proposal goes in this direction that the Commissioner and the state authorities must respect the very interests of the concrete people who have been affected by these issues and that they are contacting people with state bodies who will decide on their fate. It is not excluded that NGOs are involved in the realisation of these problems. It is not excluded that NGOs play a certain role, but one NGO that is formed cannot ask the god of whom to come before the state authority and say that tens of thousands of people affected by this process want to return to Kosovo, or want to return to Leskovac, or want to return to another environment. We have to respect these people's rights. We have to ask Serbs from Kosovo whether they want to live in Belgrade or whether they want to live in Nis. We must ask the tens of thousands of Roma who came from Kosovo, whether they want to live in Leskovac or Novi Sad. If we don't approach that question that way, I'm afraid we're getting into the problem we've had before. In that sense, there is also the argument of Ms. Donka Banovic, that we must seriously think about the human and minority rights of affected persons, and this amendment that I was talking about, which implies the introduction of a new principle, is the principle of protection of law. If you accept that, I think we'll go one step further than what the bill's project is saying, which is that we're creating a balance between the needs of the state, the needs of the community in general, between the needs of those people who unfortunately are affected by these different events, and often they couldn't do anything in that direction. The next thing I want to talk about, my impression by reading this law is that it is related among other things, if I exclude people who are coming to Serbia and who are not citizens of Serbia, that it still applies to four million Serbian citizens. When we talk about it, we are talking about three million Serbs in different countries and we are talking about about a million members of other national communities in other countries, because only Germany and Austria count over. In Austria, more than 250,000 Serbian citizens, the largest number of Serbs are among them. In that sense, I believe that when you bring in the Action Plan, an integral part of that Action Plan should be the instruction of the DKP representatives, meaning diplomatic and consular representations, in which way we not only issue passports in Austria, not only to deal with issues of whether someone is incarcerated, whether someone should be issued a death certificate, but rather to deal with the issues of our people who are there and for more reasons. I've lived alone for 10 years in Austria, these people feel lonely, these people have no real contact with their country, and it's people who can and how much to contribute to this crisis and to be our lobbyists, but we just don't have gossiping contact. In that sense, the Commissioner has serious obligations, has serious authority and I think that the colleague was absolutely right when he talked about other issues, rather than just how we are going to solve the problem of internally displaced persons. How are we going to solve the problem of people who came from other countries to live in Serbia because of the problems they had there. That in the Action Plan, according to the law, the government must indeed do a systematic review of the activities it will take and make use of these four million citizens as one serious potential for Serbia to further develop. I'd end up here to discuss the rest of my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3852	Thank you, Mr. Shane. The next reported MP is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3853	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, you have seen first and foremost from earlier presentations of colleagues from the DS that we will support this law. We believe that the government's well-being and in this field confirms one continuity with the previous government not because it's motivated by political, party reasons, but simply because there are spheres of our life that are being arranged in one way that is best possible under the given circumstances, whoever is in power in this country. I think this is one of those examples, and in that sense we should definitely support this law. Of course, there are a few remarks of technical nature that I would say from a series of those I would say, which my colleague Janko Veseinovic did not mention. I would only mention that it is definitely the Commissioner's job to deal with victims and persons who have suffered or had problems, or who have been expelled from their homes in the Kosovo conflict by 2000. So, I'd ask that it be placed until 2004, for famous March reasons, I don't know what to call it. What certainly stings the eyes and what's a little vague, it seems to me, indeed, too long the introduction of regulations regarding this law, and that's even 12 months. I think it's too long and should be significantly reduced. Otherwise, we are here to witness the adoption of a legal act which we in the DS read as a tool of this or any government in the fight against the consequences of another accident affecting the population. So you're actually fighting the consequences, not the causes, through this act. In that sense, you should be given all the support. I am concerned in the previous part of the debate that the ruling coalition has shown indivisibility on this matter. Obviously, there are some misunderstandings that may be the result of insufficient coordination between the two strongest groups in the ruling coalition. But I'm undermining that we in the DS will provide support so you don't have to worry about that part. What's certainly interesting is that migration affects almost all countries in modern Europe, and they're internal and external, you've made it nice here and pointed out and presented it in the right way. However, what is important to mention that one of the unwanted segments of migration is the issues of fake asylum seekers who can do very much harm to bring the interest of the Republic of Serbia. It is a question, not for you, but for Mr Dacic, who should do much more through the work of the MUP to work on the principle and problem of curbing false asylum seekers, through adequate criminal treatment of people who abuse this one of the fundamental human rights. So, when Prime Minister Dacic publicly says that we will be willing to even pay the costs of returning fake asylum seekers to Serbia, Mr Dacic says that by thinking that the public in Serbia does not know that we, by international agreements, are obliged to pay for the return of these people to Serbia. But I, as a people's MP and a man elected by citizens, who is among other things a professional diplomat, must point out that it was one "shot into thin air" just because we were obliged to pay for their return. Internal migrations are suppressed by the development of industrial centres in the Republic of Serbia itself, for what it is necessary for this government to show much more agility and much more readiness to open jobs and attract foreign investment, which will not be easy at all, in terms of the economic crisis, but much more unfortunately, in a very high degree of government incompetence in the past 100 days. I have to say, we do have migration in other fields. We have the migration of prices up; we have the migration of living standards down; we have the migration of bad people to important human beings in Serbia; we have the migration of European standards outside Serbia, we have the migration of our good relations in the region. So I have to say that I'm really worried, me and DS with how some important issues are being treated at this point. Finally, with the promised support and the request to correct these things I pointed out for the sake of our citizens' well-being. They will be users, unfortunately, of these measures and I don't understand how we came to be critical of the government to talk about integrated border management. I must also mention that it is true and that the European postulate is integrated in border management and it will be introduced to all borders of the Republic of Serbia, with administrative crossings not being borders. There are clear features of what borders are, and that is the state symbol, flag, coat of arms and border stone, which according to KIM, this government, the previous government, and I'm sure, and the future government will never allow. Therefore, let us not change our thesis and use in political struggle such things that do not honor anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3854	National MP Predrag Markovic gives up. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3855	The law on migration management is the answer of one responsible government to this significant problem. The Migration Management Act came from a strategic document, i.e. from a migration management strategy, from its strategic objective and of course, from an action plan that provides for the establishment of a legal framework for 2011 and 2012 in order to work on data collection by the Commissioner for Refugees and in order to profile the migration picture of the Republic of Serbia. Two key elements, i.e. this migration management law, are the granting of new responsibilities to the Refugees Commissioner, who should continue to work as Commissioner for Refugees and Migration, and, of course, establishing a single system of collection, analysis, processing, data protection that is essential for determining the migration profile of the Republic of Serbia. What I would especially like to draw attention to is Articles 10, 12 and 13. In fact, Article 10 regulates the education of migration councils at local level and what I want to draw attention to, in a positive sense, is that members of the migration council at local level, except for representatives of the local government and representatives of the social work centre, representatives of the National Employment Service, representatives of the MUP, trustees and bodies of the municipal administration, but in line with the specificities of certain municipalities, other systems in the local area, such as the education system, as well as the associations of migrants, can be introduced, as I consider very important, because only through the participation and active participation of these migrant faces can adequate plans and programmes at local level. As regards Articles 12 and 13, they concern the provision of accommodation to persons who have been granted the right to return, on the basis of readmission agreements and, of course, the accommodation of persons who have been granted the right to shelter. What I particularly want to draw attention to, is that through these members of the law there is a networking of a system dealing with various segments of the lives of migrants, which is the Commissioner for Refugees and Social Work Centres, among those particularly vulnerable social groups, and it concerns old, sick and exhausted persons in a particularly psychophysical state and, of course, children without parental ageing. These persons, based on the centre's act, are placed in social protection facilities, are placed at family accommodations or are located with other service providers. The total cost of their accommodation is borne by the Commissioner. We hope that by adopting sublegislative acts, and this law is intended to be passed within a year, even more detail will be laid down by the members of this law, even more detailedly elaborated. The SNS will certainly support the adoption of this law because it considers it better to have a law than not to have a law, i.e. that the property of the law is both progress for the state and lack of law leads to chaos.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3856	The next reported word is MP Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3857	Dear President, fellow MPs, I will be very brief on the proposal for a law on migration management. What is important for our citizens to know is how migration policy is being conceived in Serbia and what are the issues that are important for the concept of migration policy. These are, above all, unresolved issues of external migration, which is the departure of higher education personnel, obligations, basic readmission contracts, returnees' problems and respect for international standards. These are matters of great importance for the future of the state and especially for the future of European integration, which is also neglected in one part of the debate, and recently we have had a problem with visa issues again, precisely because of some issues that have not been resolved in the area of migration policy. These migration management issues are one long-term problem. The issue of migration is inseparable from what is the concept of reintegration, because the reintegration of those who have been returned under the readmission agreement, who have not become where the functional parts of the community went, is being asked as a key question, how will we make them functional members of the community in our country. I guess that's the basic question, because it's not about some abstract categories, it's about people who are our former or future citizens and neighbors with whom we should live in the best possible way and those who should join the community in the best possible way. It is therefore very important to stress that those issues that plague all these categories that fall under the problems of migration management are accommodation and unemployment, is a continuation of education, if education is also started somewhere and is access to health and social services. Of course, there is an inseparable issue of humanitarian aid and what we as a society can do with solidarity to help people really be involved as functional parts of our society. As for the technical elements of the bill itself, the unification of jobs within the Commissioner, it does not seem to be a bad solution, it is a solution that needs and requires strong logistics and interresorial support, since the Ministry of Culture and Information should include it, and the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour, because these resolution ministries are in charge of all those issues that really burden the population treated by this bill. So I would just like to point out one little inaccuracies in the Bill's proposal, and perhaps not inaccuracy, is quite a broadly set article 14, which says among other things that the way to engage in the social, cultural and economic life of the person of the first member's position is to regulate the Government, on the proposal of the Commissioner. The Commissioner should indeed bear in mind how big the problems we, like the Government and the Legislative Body are going to face, and on the other hand, people who will be treated with such a bill. I would also like to highlight one topic that has been running through parliament all day, about how this is just some technical law, which has a technical character and that it does not solve anything important. I really believe that it is a roof law that continues what Serbia has already done in the legislation in this field, so I will only briefly mention that this is the 2008 Law on the Entry and residence of foreigners, the 2007 Asylum Act, the 2008 Law on the Protection of State Borders, the 2008 Act on the Identification of Documents, the Law on Citizenship of 2004, etc. So, we are on the trail of what this government has already established as one legislative regulation in this area, we have passed a roof law which, of course, will treat the problem of migration management in a comprehensive way. As regards criticism of the fact that within 100 days the previous Government has not shown much legislative initiative, i.e. that we have not passed many laws, I must really look back, given that this is also about an important bill proposal, the fact that hyperproduction of the law does not mean the fundamental progress of society, unless these laws are applied and we are able to form institutions that are rightly going to be, and not only institutions, but also political will, which will in the right way, carry out what they are, in fact, the main intensities and intentions of the legislator. Therefore, I will not agree that the government is not, that there is no legislative initiative. On the contrary, several very important system laws are not only in the process, but are adopted. By the end of the year, it is still planned, so I think that this kind of unconstructive, indeed, criticism of the opposition doesn't lead to anything but problems that shouldn't be disturbed. We will be pleased if the opposition will make amendments that will really, in some way, improve this law and certainly be in the mood to talk about it. I can only conclude that the SNS, the SNS parliamentary group, will vote for the proposed law in any case in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3858	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3859	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I apologize at first for the insolence, and I hope you will understand me. The Alliance of Refugees, whose representative in the SNS parliamentary group, will support the migration management law, because, as many colleagues have said, this law in a comprehensive way regulates this very important area, defines the new responsibilities of the Commissioner for Refugees and establishes a system of data collection and exchange that is important for the area of migration. What we think is missing in this law is one principle that is crucial to, above all, forced migrants, the principle of respect for human rights and non-discrimination. I think that this principle should be included in the very law on the management of migration because it is a fundamental problem for forced migrants, in this case refugees and exiled Serbs from the areas of Croatia and the Federation of BiH, discrimination in legislation and the conduct of competent state, regional and municipal authorities. I will only taxively list some of the problems faced by hundreds of thousands of refugees and exiled Serbs, out of more than 40,000 seized tens of them, 50,000 pensioners who are owed outstanding pensions, 81 pensions in total, we have 10,000 exiled persons whose houses have been destroyed outside the area of war, outside the province, in Croatian cities from Zadar, Sisak, Karlovac, Bjelovar, Zagreb, etc. in classic terrorist actions. We had a "Crissal Night" in the fall of 1991 in Zadar. Croatia abolished Article 180 in 1996. The law on mandatory bond relations, which obliged the state of Croatia to compensate for material damage to these destroyed, destroyed houses in terrorist actions and business facilities. About tens of thousands of families, 20 years or 17 years, have failedly tried to achieve their human right to compensation for damages. Unfortunately, that's not what they did. We also have a large number of people who have been forced under pressures and threats to change their houses, primarily in Croatian cities, for houses several times less square, five, ten or more times less. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia refuses to return their houses, although they were forced against their free will to replace those houses. Also, a very interesting process that has been going on in the last year, namely, Croatia has restored a number of destroyed houses in the region of Krajina, and what is happening now? The Republic of Croatia is now asking these people to stay in those houses, although people do not have the conditions to live in Kordun, Bani, Lica and northern Dalmatia. I will give an example of Stevan Lazic of Pakrac, whose house was renovated in 2006, half of 180 square meters were restored. Stevan Lazic asked the Croatian Ministry of Regional Development if he could sell the house because he is an old man and cannot live in that house alone. After half a year, he received a lawsuit from the Croatian State Liberation that he had to return 50,000 euros to that invested house, although he did not even sell it. If he doesn't get that money back, his house will be taken from him and sold. We have a number of such cases also in Banja, the Premcevic case, which must return 37,000 euros, the Tomic case in Pakrac – 50,000 euros, etc. We also have a large number of problems related to the abduction of agricultural and construction land in both the Federation of BiH and Croatia. We also have a problem in the Federation of BiH where people are largely unable to rebuild their houses. We have a case of the village of Kljevici in the Municipality of Sanski Most, where no house has been restored yet. A particular problem is returnees to Croatia. Croatia has passed a constitutional law on the rights of national minorities guaranteeing proportionate representation in the authorities of the state administration, in the police, judiciary and other bodies. Unfortunately, 10 years since the law was passed, almost a minimum number of Serbs have been employed in state authorities. We have an example of the Vrgin Bridge municipality in Kordun, where most of the Serbs are. There are no Serbs in the bodies of local self-government in state institutions. We believe that these are serious problems and that just one institution such as the Refugees' Commissioner, together with other institutions, should be an active policy to raise these issues in talks with official Zagreb and Sarajevo and to resolve these issues. One member, Article 5, is particularly important to us. Proposal for a Law on Migration Management, which affirms the principle of respect for international contracts. It is particularly important for forced migrants, for refugees and exiled persons, the Vienna Agreement on Succession, an interstate agreement concluded in 2001 came into force in 2004, and especially interesting Annex 7, Annex "G", which is called – private property and acquired rights, and it says very clearly that all citizens must return their rights that they had on day 31. 12. In 1990, all contracts under pressure, threats, will be declared nothing. Under the Constitution of Croatia, Article 140 of the Constitution of Serbia, international agreements have stronger legal power than domestic law. We also think that the Vienna Agreement on Sucession, Annex "G", is the basis for what the Commissioner for Refugees should rely on in talks with Zagreb and Sarajevo. We believe that the draft law should also include the fact that the Commissioner reports annually to the committee responsible, I think it is the Committee on Labour, Employment and Social Affairs, that members of that committee are familiar with the activities of the Commissioner and the implementation of this law. The Association of Refugees coalition will propose to the SNS parliamentary group that a subcommittee on refugees and migration be formed within the Committee on Labour, Employment and Social Affairs, which would follow the work of the Refugees Commissioner and which would contribute in a constructive way to bringing these problems out of the carpet as soon as possible, from the drawers, to the table and start solving. We also believe that in the proposal for a migration management law, Article 10 should allow migration councils, which are otherwise established in more than 100 municipalities and cities in Serbia, besides representatives of local self-government and local institutions, to make it mandatory for representatives of the association that founded refugees, exiled and displaced persons to be able to participate actively in local policy-making, to address problems in the integration process. It's, first of all, solving a housing issue. In the end, I would like to say that this is a very important law and that by adopting it, we believe that a space is being opened for the Commissioner for Refugees and Migrations, as it will be called, along with other institutions to go into an active process of establishing dialogue with Zagreb and Sarajevo, and that finally these problems that I have listed in part begin to solve, and that really damaged citizens feel that the time has come for their problems to come to the table and finally someone to stand behind them and show that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration will do everything to make sure that these problems are solved in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3860	Thank you very much. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3861	The Honored Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the SPO Parliament Club, DHSS has no serious objection to the proposal for a migration management law. I'm saying this because we don't have a problem voting for all those legal acts that make us look good, no matter what ministry, from which minister, from which club they came from. I hope that, after this support in the good atmosphere of ministers and in good mood, they will look at everything the SPS and DHSS offer, because we have not long ago offered to parliament to adopt a bill on opening files, which the ruling majority did not support. I talked about it in the afternoon discussion, about the need to solve problems systemically, about the need to pay attention to the migrations that devastate Serbia. I will therefore send representatives of the government, Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, a suggestion, a request to look at the SPO site and to transfer it to other ministers, as it contains a programme declaration on the decentralisation of government in Serbia, adopted on the SPO's main committee in 2007, which follows the best standards of highly developed and economically and democratic European countries. With this in mind, I will remind you that we have insisted with our coalition partners in the previous term that such a document be adopted, which would stop Serbia's further desolation. Instead, however, we have received a caucus law on the financing of local self-government. Instead, we got an even more suitable climate to continue the trend of migration and the devastation of certain parts of Serbia. I took with me, in order to convince the public, the programme declaration, which contains the best experiences of countries that have managed to solve the problem of unemployment, the problem of the biological disappearance of certain areas, the problem of economic sunflowers. I hope you will have hearing and that you will have the responsibility to pass on all these suggestions to the other ministers. Once again, we will support all the laws, whoever they came from, that are in the interest of Serbian citizens. We will uphold the law that has been announced, about the investigation of the origin of the property. I hope that after the law has been passed, they won't be protected. Yesterday's day delights me and assures me that it may be possible in Serbia, because we want to see who it is and how it got the money, who and how it damaged the state budget, who, unfortunately, became too rich for Serbia's citizens. We want to see that. We want to get rid of all those dirty acts involving people who are now lording Serbia, and anyone who does this will have unreserved support for SPI and DHSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3862	Thank you very much. Since no more applications have been made, pursuant to Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure, I conclude a principled review on the Proposal for a Law on Migration Management. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Means pursuant to Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the basis of the principled review of the 4th item of the agenda, the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, in addition to the proposer's representative, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, the Minister of Health, has also called for the sittings to be attended by Zorica Pavlovic, assistant health minister. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time for debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group - one hour, 16 minutes and 48 seconds; the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - one hour, one minute and 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group - 30 minutes; the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 18 minutes; the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democratic Party - 16 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of New Serbia - nine minutes and 36 minutes; the Parliamentary Group of the Unity Serbia - eight minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Alliance of the Hungarians of Serbia's six-member parties; the six-members group of Serbia's six minutes; the six-s group of the ethnic group of Serbia -- the ethnic group of Serbia's six-s ethnic groups; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia's group; the ethnic groups of Serbia's six; the ethnic groups; the ethnic groups of Serbia's ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the six; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the six, the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia, the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnics; the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia, the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of Serbia; the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of the ethnic groups of Serbia; the group of Serbia; the ethnics of Serbia; According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall, by mutual agreement, determine no more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. The word is Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3863	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the law that is before you, that is to say, amending and supplementing the laws, is actually the result of the adoption of a proposal for a set of financial laws, whose idea is that business of economic operators should be so in our country that all costs of producers, including drug and medical products are reduced. So, it's one stimulation to domestic producers, who would not pay so far the amount of money they gave to the Agency for registration in the medical register, nor would that share of the costs burden them. It is not large in sum, but the fact that the number behind these permits in 2011, in the first ten months was 386 and 541, respectively, and the revenues for 2011 were five million and 410 000 dinars. Starting with Article 141. The Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, as you know, the Agency has issued import approvals for medicinal products not authorised for medicinal products, and it was necessary for certain patients or groups of patients to be treated, at least for those who go to a pharmacy, to comply with certain regulations which are not covered by this proposal. Therefore, the proposal for a provision applies only to the modification of one position in Article 1 which provides that the Agency shall issue a tariff for the provision of a whole set of services that it has ten and only the certification of the needs of exporting medicinal products and medical means in accordance with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation and in order to stimulate our economic operators. There have been a lot of live discussions on this issue on the Health Committee. There's been a lot of thought until we've made it clear that this is what we really want to support a set of financial laws, which stimulates all domestic export and registration producers. I thank and hope that this law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law, will be accepted by all of you, because colleagues from the parliamentary groups who had certain amendments on the Committee have withdrawn the amendment, following the clarification of what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3864	Thank you. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to file a statement with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them: the SPS – Zoran Radovanovic, DSS – Sanda Raskovic Ilic and the URS – Snezana Stojanović Pavlovic. Do the rapporteurs of the committees responsible, the Committee on Health and the Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3865	Thank you. In the name of the Serbian Progressive Party, I can immediately tell you that we will accept this change and that it is rational, logical and that it represents one step forward in reforming the laws that we ourselves have, voting for or against, but in such or similar composition we have brought to the top. Wanting first of all to put order in the drug market. This change is something that should have happened before, and something that I'm not sure about, even if the legal description of the jurisdiction of the Agency itself does not say that it can be the proposing of the changes. I believe the Ministry understood that. Whether based on what its economic operators, drug manufacturers have presented as a problem, whether simply living in the environment in which we live they have been able to understand that it may be necessary to shorten procedures in a state agency such as this agency, which intervening between ministries in a certain way. It is also closely linked to the Republic Health Insurance Fund. This series of interdependent interdependencies, interactivity is often such that it leads to a delay in the process, I suppose not intentional, in the drug registration process, an assessment of the similarity of clinical studies and other important segments from the responsibility of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Resources of Serbia. This will not be a huge loss for the Agency, which in the 2010 report cited the 620-million-dollar incomes and some million dinars. We don't, I don't know why the 2011 information was as much as it was. It is possible that it came to the government because it is presented to the government, the ministries, and I don't think they are obliged to present a report to the Assembly on their financial operations. We've heard now that it's about five million. This paragraph, as amended by Article 11, shall be amended in Article 3 where, under point 6 of Article 1(3), the competence of the Agency is also defined. This, except for the support of this change, which I gave praise to, I don't know who, whether the Agency itself that registered it was the most natural thing for the institution itself to feel a narrow throat in its business, or whether it recognized the Ministry, or whether they were putting pressure on those who had to export the drugs so that they could once again come to the Agency's threshold and wait. It's bringing us all back together now in a period of law-making. So at a time when, and with what we now have the necessary consequences and where I'm already starting to discuss what I want to suggest that these are not the final foundations of the definitive change in work and the functioning of this regulatory body. The average known facts, we get information from users of services, and these are drug rights holders, this is about foreign producers and domestic drug manufacturers, that they are waiting very long for authorisation to register the drug. What is interesting when this change and the evaluation of the Expert Team comes to the conclusion that the medicine can be obtained with or without a clinical trial, depending on what it is, standard or shortened procedure, then it is nearly three months until the solution is reached that the medicine can go into circulation in Serbian pharmacies. The next step is to go to price harmonisation, and the commissions that do it do it once or twice. I think the minister suggested that the harmonisation of drug prices be done more often, and then on the Fund's list. In the Fund's list, fighting for a positive position presents a special problem for drug manufacturers. It's no wonder that after a year, two or three people get a chance to show up on the drug market. What else can the Agency or anyone on behalf of the Agency represent her, with a concrete change coming out, it's a matter of tariffs. The tariffs are a proposal adopted under the law of the Agency only by the Management Board, the Director of the Agency signed, forwarded to the Government and the Ministry for the purpose of agreeing with that pricer. If we look closely in front of ourselves, we see that the price of these services is such that it may be decorative for those who are trying to break through on the market. Of course we're going to say that the financial side of the pharmacist is strong, they can finance it, but maybe it shouldn't be forgotten for the public to say that the pharmaceutical form, strength and packaging of only one form of medicine, one capsule in one dose is initially 240,000. If the manufacturer starts looking for another drug strength, it'll be another 92,000. If it takes another form of medicine, it'll be 160,000. If someone makes a capsule, makes syrup and makes drops, say "Galenika" to make pentraxil in all of these forms for different populations and ages, they will have four forms of medicine. When you add that up, it's close to 500,000-600,000, and then it's no wonder that the Agency's traffic, annual revenues not only on this basis, can be close to 600 million dinars. That leaves a question and opens an interest in how this body works? That's how someone makes the income, and when you open up the Agency's director's website, you see that she's quite commended herself and that the media transmitted it, as one very successful director unlike the previous one. So that's what the websites say, she must have authorized it, which in two years turned the losers into one winning agency. Even 50% of the revenue is paid in the budget. I couldn't find an item where she deprives half of her income and gives the budget, but what opens up the problem under the possible control influence of the Ministry of Health, above all I think of the Ministry of Health, and to a much smaller extent the Ministry of Health, because it's a smaller extent of jurisdiction in relation to that ministry, to a little bit deal with the functioning and work of the Agency. The other kind of information about this work is from the parties that are subscribers, clients who make it there, and the other kind of information that gets to us MPs is information from the employee order. Do we really not know who, how many, the website says 175 employees, and we know that there were over 200 of them, that the arrival of a new director was mass layoff, so that then new receptions were made, but only when the more careful structure, the organisational scheme of that agency, we see that many places may not have enough competent people sitting. I tried to find out and it ended up on information that at the moment there's one or two clinical pharmacologists, so the pharmacist with clinical pharmacology specialization. I don't think that's a good solution. When the law was passed, we asked for more doctors and more clinical pharmacologists to enter it. I think doctors are almost expelled from that profession. This is probably one of the competences of the doctor – pharmacist’s relationship, so this is a pure caste association in which there is almost no doctor, 175 employees certainly deserve to be in their ranks and microbiologists, the man responsible for the work of a microbiological laboratory, who is established to suspect that this job is performed by someone else who is not competent enough at the moment, and it is known that the confirmation of microbiological correctness is one of the most important certificates issued by that agency. So I want to draw attention here too to the ministry, when it analyses the conditions, not the inspections sent by the Ministry or the inspection board, and the director has signed such an agency, to see whether such an organisational scheme is necessarily developed to the extent that waiting lists or length of waiting for a clinical trial permit and for obtaining a marketing authorisation are shorter, that it is not necessary for months, because the law provides 30 days for the primary assessment of the validity of the documentation, then 30 days for parties to respond and supplement the documentation and 210 days for waiting for a decision on whether the drug will be accepted... or it won't be approved. For some reason, that term extends to much more. It's similar with clinical studies...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3866	I warn the MP on time. You have five minutes as chairman of the board...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3867	I thought I got my word as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3868	As chairman of the board, you have five minutes. You can call back later.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3869	I signed up on that basis. Then I'll proceed and take the time to continue as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3870	Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3871	That's how I understood. Of course, I won't take too long. I don't even know how long it's been. It's been 10 minutes and then you've tolerated me for a very long time, thank you, but we were both mistaken. Are we going to make an additional effort to modernise the regulations, the sublegal acts under which the agency operates, that is also an inquiry for the ministry, the inquiry for this Parliament, because it is a law that has been brought here. What haven't we done well enough? We didn't do a rule on registering generic drugs. The generic drugs are indeed represented on our market to a large extent. We don't have a clear rulebook, even though it's a warrant to issue a regulation on the registration of drugs that come from this huge group, so on. A group, as it's called in the jargon, parallels. It's not parallels, it's exactly the same drug as the same fact, that flooded our market and where the registration procedure for these drugs should be significantly simplified. In the context of the fact that and through the approval of clinical trials, there are very large formal gaps, above all in the timing of decision-making, from the interventions of health institutions whose directors, the authorised representatives, by their signature of powers or decisions that, after the ethics committee, after the agency and the examination of the Agency's permission to conduct a clinical trial within the institution, can often end up on the table of a director, waiting, waiting for a tick, and losing valuable time where the institution cannot participate, especially in international and international clinical studies. If you're not efficient, spotty, you'll waste time, you won't have enough quota of patients proposed for questioning. If we have already introduced this type of study, this type of biological examination, whether it is a clinical trial, then it should be defined in accordance with that limit or law by the obligation of each of these complex chain of competence that one clinical study would indeed be legally subsidized and secure and for the patient himself, certainly for researchers on the research team, because indeed today the conditions according to the criteria of good clinical practice are very binding for all those working on that job. And that would be one of the responsibilities. I'm going back to the director who really has a lightning career. I don't know if her work is under someone's glass or not, for which there is information that she is very often prone, which I noticed, and when I spoke to the Minister about the Ministry's work on a previous or six-month period, she goes to such professional conventions, assemblies and some team of privileged officials, they go to the extent possible even several times a month. The agency needs to have communication, but with related agencies on the issue of the agency itself. It happens very often, and the final account report doesn't show who pays for this trip, whether and since the planned rally in Vrsac is perhaps somehow connected to the pharmaceutical company, we can't know that. We do not have such reports, and we know that there is indeed a distinct tendency to some professional journeys. Sometimes it also concerns some pure cosmetic requirements, conventions, because such things are being considered. Lord God knows how normal it is that the director of the agency or its associates who she reads go or don't go to such meetings, because the office of director and quality management, these are the key assistants and associates of the Agency's director. This is where all the requests of the parties are actually completed and there is a response waiting, and these other resolutions, sectors, centres, etc. make final decisions and final solutions. I think there's a place around here where you can intervene by changing the law, by pressing the administration by a senior administration like the ministry, to make it a stronger, more powerful sector to work here. Let's just say, we're also witnessing that the bar codes, these stickers that are used to identify the real, real drug drug that appear as surrogates on the market, with that red-blue-white bar code, I think they're called stickers or they have some identity stickers or something like that, should protect the real from the fake cure. That is one solution Serbia has taken. It doesn't have all the lands around it. That's what you do, I think, at the Bureau for printing bills and securities of value. There are indications, however, that there is one kind of communication, the fabric of the private and public sector in the printing of such contacts, such stickers that are placed on each pack of individual drugs, on each individual packaging. I would like some things that appear to the public at a small or large door, however, and information to come to us, to be crystal clear, without even asking a frequent parliamentary question – is it necessary, how much further it costs, how binding it is, and how really the problem with counterfeit drugs is managed in such a way? Are we missing inspection? Indeed, in statements and conventions held by both agencies and at expert meetings, speaking of the problem, we face the fact that the market is flooded, however, they often state that it is in the private sector, pharmacies, flooded with drugs that have no proof of their original origin. Then there comes the scene and the issue of the operation of the national control lab that needs to be done. She's technically ready, we see it in the papers that cover the agency's organisation, whether it's really done to the end, if there's enough qualified personnel. It is not only a matter of those technicians who maintain it, but whether or not they are systematized, as it is broad and uniformly given, and for clinical and biochemistry physical examinations and chemical testing of drugs, whether we are really covering enough professional personnel, whether it can preferably be allowed for the diapazone, how the specialist or primary educational expertise of the persons who are doing so does not lead to enough professional people, so that we have problems with the vaccines, so problems with insufficiently effective medicines, so the problems of the aqua, distilled water in the Tetalpan vaccine, and here it is known that for such types of biological medicines there must be checking every batch that is being broadcast and which appears on the market, whether it is imported. So these are some of the dilemmas that I suggest to the ministry, to consider that body that, let me repeat, has half the employees relative to the number, in fact, half of what's in the ministry. If there are 15-20 people in the ministry, I don't know how many, the site says they have close to 170-180 people, that's half. Their salary fund is 200 million. It's not small and these are the people that need to sharpen the glass, sharpen the objectivity for their work. The government's jurisdiction is over that body, and the ministries are in those transferred responsibilities, and, of course, in assessing the activities and actions of their work. I mean both ministries, the wind, and, of course, more to health, have jurisdiction over this institution. I think they should use it selflessly. Finally, this is a government based on the principle of agreement to make changes, to make changes in work, to make changes in function, not to continue with the same methods, the same technique of working in which some enquiries are opened. I've fragmented them in a shy way here, I've singled them out, not wanting to enter into the personification of any solutions or any kind of phenomenon at all, because it's not our jurisdiction as MPs, but enough for us to be able to act as a wide public on those who are obliged to take care of it, simply to shed light on the complete problem of the important institution. It's not just any institution, it's supposed to have every state and it has to communicate with the world's reference institutions, not just with countries in an environment that will do a service with compensation. It's not a sufficient level of communication, it has to develop and a higher level of communication with both MA and FDA, and then it's going to be the right level of sufficientness and the right level of functional capacity of our agency, which I think has a rather young code working and has time for everyone to learn and specialize, but to objectively do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3872	The word has a folk MP, Dr Zoran Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3873	I would like to thank the chairman, dear Minister, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, a little shorter than my predecessor, since we were together on the Committee and discussed these issues and exchanged opinions with the Minister and the Resort Assistants. First of all, this amendment to the law changes only one member. This one member who changes for laymen seems irrelevant, but he's essentially very important. The amendment of the law is in line with the World Health Organisation's recommendation, which abolishs the obligation to pay compensation to the Agency for Medicinal Products for Convincing the Need for Exporting Medicinal Products and Medical Means. This way, as the minister said just before, this would be some kind of stimulant related to domestic drug and pharmaceuticals producers. I would like to remind you of some golden times when the Serbian pharmaceutical industry was a significant exporter of drugs. As I come from southern Serbia, from Nis, not far from Nis and Leskovac, and everyone remembers when the once powerful company "Zravlje Leskovac" almost half of its production exported to the surrounding markets, abroad, outside the borders and SFRJ, and later on, SRJ and Serbia, not to mention "Hemofarm" and large companies present today in our space. Serbia was also considered an important pharmaceutical giant in the region and beyond. I believe that the elimination of this fee will significantly stimulate the export of medicines, that it will enable the recovery of our economy, first of all, the pharmaceutical industry, to bring a certain foreign income to our country and, more importantly, make it possible for us to buy those medicines, I am saying this from practice, life practice, which is missing on the market for medicines in Serbia. The state, first of all, will be the ministry to control whether this has its effects or not and whether the medicine market in Serbia is fully satisfied with the needs of patients. There will probably be different opinions, because the pharmaceutical industry is considered to be an extremely strong and powerful branch, but the accent is to reduce procedures and stimulate drug exports. It is in the pharmaceutical industry to justify what the ministry has come up with and help further development. All the measures will be analysed in a short time, the same of us sitting here in the congregation and showing justification and the measure itself and its effects. We are confident that this measure will be sufficient to stimulate the export of our medicines and medical resources, and therefore the SPS parliamentary group will support in the day to vote on the draft of this law, i.e. to amend this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3874	The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3875	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but at the beginning as Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic spoke, she told the Health and Family Committee itself that there had been some clarifications. I need to say that the DSS has made an amendment to this amendment and the addition of the law and that we have withdrawn that amendment after we have received clarification that it is about encouraging exports, which is exporting drugs, and that we were once countries that were large exporting drugs, that it is not and that it is not in the context of this project to be helped, and we certainly agree with that. That's why we pulled that amendment. However, what I would like to say is that in addition to encouraging the export of drugs, their availability should be encouraged. Today I read an interview with the Minister's "News" who says that only the cheapest drugs will be available, not even a black thing, because as a doctor, I can say that the cure is a five-fluorouracil, which is otherwise a very cheap drug, a long time, and even for a few years, it has not been available. As for this law on medical means and on medicines, I am very sorry that this whole law, which was no longer an opportunity to amend and supplement that law, but I also, at least so understood the Minister, received some information that it would be discussed and that it would be possible to make certain changes. Of course, the change should be more. Now I'm only going to say one thing, and that's, let's say, when it comes to medical means, the Society of Music Therapy came to me with one proposal, that the sound, or vibrations, be introduced as a diagnostic and therapeutic agent. This would also be in line with what is happening in EU countries, but of course also in those countries that are outside the EU. I say this as a member of the DSS who is known as Eurosceptic. However, something that is good in the EU, we also accept. However, in parallel with work, I would say, on this law in particular, and in other laws, things need to be resolved systematically. Things need to be resolved by changing the law, i.e. making private practice equal to the so-called. State medicine and thus to provide Serbian citizens with better healthcare, as systemic health problems are being tackled by providing citizens with better health care. I am convinced that this law and its amendment have been made with the aim of enabling people to improve their health. However, without this system change, without equating private practice and state health, we cannot go far. This should be done in parallel with the adoption of new laws and complementing those that are old. I was an ambassador to the Republic of Serbia in Italy, and I am very well aware that we have a health separation of 280 euros per capita and that the Italians have 1,600 euros. That's about five times that. Someone might say, "Why equalize?" "How can we do this equalization of private and state health?" Well, giving us isn't big enough, because that's how we stand up for the DSS, or for equating private practice and state health, we prevent a few things. I was talking about the need for access to drugs. This enables doctors to be available to all citizens. Also, we are fighting corruption that has spread in health care, against these waiting lists for intervention, for checks, against giving more or less money. That's how we root out corruption. In this way we give our citizens the right to truly commit themselves to their doctor, not to commit themselves within a group and to be a doctor only in a home of health. And also, in addition to this fight against corruption, we talked about, here today we talked about under this law, that is, its changes and additions, about economic matters. Of course, we have a number of doctors who are unemployed. These doctors could be employed in private practice. Then private practice would be something that was absolutely under the control of the state and none of the private doctors would have an account to work on black or to hide their activity. We talked about migration today. This also has to do with migrations, or migrations from smaller cities to larger, or from villages to cities. Today in Serbia, we have very few private medical clinics, about polyclinics not to talk, in smaller towns of Serbia, villages, they practically do not exist. If we introduced this, we would fight migration and brain drains from small communities and thus strengthen their intellectual capacity. Just because this is about amending and supplementing this law, we as DSS will be restrained, because we expect this law to be done further, to allow further debate on it and some changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3876	Thank you. Is there anyone else that comes forward from the authorized representatives or the president of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic. Mr. Aligrudic was first reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3877	Thank you. It is clear that this change itself does not cause too much need for discussion in parliament. It's really simple, and when people who follow this transmission hear all these discussions, they just get lost and they don't know what the point is. I will return the story to what the prime minister, the government's representative, Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, said. It is a kind of production, export incentive for the domestic drug industry, which was practically the exemption of one tax, which was so far needed. Of course, such a kind of incentive is not something that will pay particular attention, first of all, to one extremely small, poorly expressed economic branch in our country, but the very theme and idea of introducing this incentive in this way is causing the need to say a few more sentences. I hope you don't mind. So, when in some area of social life, as is the case with health care, there are so many accumulated problems and systemic failures, I have to say, then this is the measure, whether it's necessary or indisputable, just something that reminds us that there are a number of other problems behind it. Incentive of domestic production in this way when it comes to medicines is an extremely important thing, but from the point of view of health it is much more important to supply the domestic market with medicines, which is not directly related to this measure. The national interest is to provide the market in a satisfactory manner. Moreover, the very important thing is the availability of medicines to citizens on equal terms, such as the importance and availability of healthcare under equal conditions. I can present health care to people in Serbia, as far as I know, how much I've done as a lawyer, that it's a wasteful building that's already been destroyed. Because it's on a wasted foundation. This is the essence of everything and every measure that is applied in health care and any partial revision of the rules, including this, will absolutely mean nothing in the context of the overall functioning of the health system unless new foundations of the health system are built. It is not possible, of course, to make the drugs produced in the country available to citizens on equal terms, if healthcare providers do not operate in the health system under equal conditions. Under the terms of the conditions here we can also understand those who produce medicines, because they are part of the health care system, and that includes drug distributors. So every health care service and every medicine costs. That's what we need to know, and somebody's always got to pay for it. In regulated countries, there is always a simple question – who will pay for the service and in what way? Of course, pay is a user of service, a citizen, but developed countries with social and health protection are organising it through compulsory health insurance, by investing funds in their own health insurance, which will be safely implemented in the event of a need. We have that segment, that part of the system, it's destroyed. That's why the whole system can't work. Therefore, medicines and medical services are paid by establishing health insurance in a certain degree in primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare. The problem with us is that it doesn't work. One fundamental reform needs to be carried out, by equating on the one hand the working conditions of health institutions in Serbia. Both private and state health institutions must operate under the same system, under the same control system. If we know that the current fund is exhale and that the possibilities of the fund, as it is so far set, with all those attributes that the fund has, exhausted, and I'm afraid that, we must say openly, are absolutely exhausted, then that means that all of this has to be predicated, that everything needs to be done again and think in one completely different direction. To include in this reform ideas not only on supplementary insurance, but also on compulsory health insurance, to the extent that the law has established, is also distributed and distributed to other insurance entities. This is absolutely possible and it is possible to build a legal control system that would take care of the whole of the system, and one part of the fund could assume the role of the guarantee fund. If this is not done, do not take a really serious step forward in this regard, none of the partial solutions will improve the state of health, neither in the production of drugs nor in their distribution. We'll have a still-distributed system, that we have an uncompromised private and state sector, we'll still have false dilemmas whether a doctor, a doctor who works at a state institution, should work in private afternoon or not, and why he shouldn't or shouldn't, we'll have a dilemma about whether a patient can use a prescription he got in a private pharmacy to get a medicine that's going to be refunded and whether a prescription for this medicine can issue his chosen doctor who works in private practice. So, these dilemmas are for a serious world completely fake, and we can't get rid of that ballast and that problem for years. While these systemic disturbances, Madam Minister, are not removed, whatever these partial amendments to the law, from whatever area, this is about the production and distribution of drugs, it will not have a full effect, it will remain a dissatisfaction of patients, it will remain the professional satisfaction of doctors of this system, we will continue to fight with the specific forms of corruption characteristic of this poorly-set health system that we have, unfortunately, in Serbia. I ask you to respect these arguments and that such a partial solution, however justified, be accompanied by serious system solutions in this mandate of the National Assembly. If something like that happens, it will be great for the citizens of Serbia and for all those who are professionally involved in medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3878	Thank you. Before we cross the next speakers, let me let you know that the government has delivered the budget to the National Assembly in the procedure and it will, as far as I can tell, be on the site in a few hours, if it isn't already. As of tomorrow, you will be able to take over the full budget, which is also the legal requirement to deliver the budget to the National Assembly by 15 November. The next registered speaker is Mrs Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3879	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, respected Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, Minister of Health, my need to report on this bill stemmed from a single comment relating to the parliamentary group's position, that, in relation to the bill's proposal, it would express its abstention and my personal needs, simply to analyse this seemingly small and benign bill change proposal, it should mean, or to me at least, that a small step was taken by the Minister of Health, i.e. the Government, that in each, at least at least one step or the smallest segment, the better conditions are created, in this case, the position of the drug manufacturer and the need to ensure that they are found on the world market. It is known that we had a very good domestic pharmaceutical industry and very high quality medicines that met domestic needs, but in many segments and export needs. The current measure means taking care of current domestic producers, to ensure their better position on the market, but at the same time it also means what is important in one legislative sense, to ensure compliance of this segment with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation. I think that, when it comes to the functioning of the Government in all segments, every law should be harmonised and it is expected, with the recommendations of international organisations and European laws that prescribe certain measures, norms, modes of work and behaviour in each segment and at all times, we can expect the harmonisation of the arrangements of our system with European laws and European practices that we seek, not only because of Europe, but as I personally experience it, primarily because of ourselves. The state of health today is very difficult and it survives exactly what other segments of our society survive and in all other areas of work. I see such a bill of change as a small measure of support for manufacturers, but also one of a series of measures taken by the Ministry of Health, to improve and improve the situation in this sensitive area of public health protection. It is very important that this amendment to the law was discussed, as has already been said, on the Committee on Health, that on this committee, which is a very good practice, there were representatives of the Agency for Medicinal Products and the Serbian Medical Chamber, that they made a positive statement, i.e. there was an opinion of the purpose which gave their agreement and a positive position in relation to this measure of the ministry. Such a small step also means that, in all the measures taken today by the Ministry of Health, we should expect in systemic solutions, new measures, new proposals and new alignments with what our society means, but also the needs of citizens, to make it more adapted to everything that I bring with me and what it needs to provide. When it comes to this, I believe and expect, and I see that other MPs also expect the overall public, all citizens of health care, to the greatest extent that organisations, quality, availability, as well as the effectiveness of the health system, are better in the coming period, in line with what our society can contribute and what it can provide. But surely in various places there are various reserves that one good and analyticalally thought-out policy in all areas can target our available and possible capacities towards, above all, meeting those needs that are most sensitive, of which the population expects first of all to be satisfied, such as the area of health, such as the area of education and the area of work. In this case, I expect the Ministry of Health in the coming period, and according to some of our announcements by Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, as responsible health minister, this is exactly the kind of thinking and such a proposal for action in the coming period we can expect. In any case, and this is one of the possible proposals that goes in favour of citizens, or users of services, in line with what is also mentioned here further, which should be expected, that all our possible capacities are used, when I say here, are professional, material and spatial, so that we get one system in the future that will be more and more acceptable and more accessible and accessible to us. In any event, it is important that common measures be taken by the Ministry of Health, the Republic Health Insurance Office and other relevant professional entities, and in any case beyond that I hope even small shifts and improvements in this highly sensitive area of public health protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3880	Thank you. Our next registered speaker is MP Ninoslav Geric.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3881	The respected presidency, respected Madam Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, is now on the agenda of the Assembly's draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Resources. First of all, I would remind myself that the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices is responsible for providing the people of Serbia with effective, safe and quality medicines at the price our health system can bear. This is why it is very important and necessary for the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices to work highly profiled personnel with a lot of experience that knows medicines well, industry work and regulatory requirements under which medicines and medical resources are registered. The adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices will reduce the tariffs paid by participants in the drug market and create more favourable conditions for the business of all operators in this activity. It is important that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget and Article 1 proposes that the obligation to pay the Agency's assurance of the needs of exporting medicinal products and medical resources be abolished. On this occasion, I would like to warn you of several items to be taken into account. First of all, my predecessor, my colleague Poscurica, spoke of it, did not satisfy the rule of so-called. bioequivalence tests, and our market is flooded with increasingly generic drugs. All countries in the environment, as well as EU countries, have a clearly defined rules on how to conduct tests and what tests should be conducted to register a generic drug. Then, the Regulation on clinical trials is incomplete and does not comply with the relevant EU rules, there are no clearly defined points relating to testing in the elderly, children and special population groups. It is necessary to explain the discrepancy between the current Drug and Medical Devices Act and the Variation Regulations, and the reason is that this Regulation cannot be applied in practice. In any case, it should raise the Agency's work to a higher level, because the health of the population is in this way really threatened by the registration of medicines that have not been sufficiently studied, but under the pressure of pharmaceutical companies are registered. This opens the way, not only for putting these drugs on the market in Serbia, but for including them on the list paid by the insurance company. In addition to the absence or suspicion of the absence of certain medicines, particularly generic, as well as medicinal products of biological origin, there is a risk that treatment with such drugs may cause undetectable side effects which cannot be identified and which can be further treated. It is known to be an affair on the import of vaccines, cytostatics, immunoglobins, etc. In that sense, it should ensure control of the Agency, that a man, even a minister, does not decide on his own and always on the recommendation of the World Health Organization. It is a well-known example of the Minister of Health of Poland, who opposed the pressure of the World Health Organization and failed to obtain suspicious vaccines. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Health has brought in a program and set out health care facilities in which drug addicts, most often heroin addicts, are disincentived from opiates using methadone, so-called methadone. Methadone program. The problem is that addicts during the methadone programme go to prison detention and are not in a position to continue the rehab program. The prison section of health care is in the department of justice's management and is not possible to obtain opiates for the continuation of the programme, as prison units are not reference institutions for the procurement of opiates under the law. It is necessary to define by law who can carry out the traffic and the purchase of intoxicating funds. In this way, it will be possible to conduct therapy with addicts on prison time. I believe that the work of the Agency should be more successful and should be taken into account that the selection of the Agency's director should be carried out in a transparent manner through adequate job systematisation, the relevant statutes of the Agency, norms and labour standardisation, quality assurance, improvement of human relations, and, more importantly, that the members of the Committee for Medicinal Products and the Commission for Clinical Studies should not be in conflict of interest. Finally, the SNS supports these amendments and amendments to the law, and in the voting day it will support these changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3882	Thank you. The word is Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3883	Thank you. I would like to have one small intervention, with thanks for the support of the Amendment and the supplementation of the Drug Act, because it seems to me that somehow it can be misunderstood that since we're a poor country, we're using generics, that the procedure for getting certain permits for the marketing of these drugs is not exactly the best standards. I must say that our drug law is fully in line with EU regulations, that only a generic license can be obtained with very strict standards and that it does not stand. Is there something longer to wait? The deadlines for obtaining some permits are absolutely scheduled for 210 days. Where this can be shortened, we must generally respect these exact deadlines in order to do certain procedures, including those for bioequivalence in one valid way. So we don't need to misinformation. We doctors understand what all this means, but the citizens are wondering if we're taking any other medications? No, what we have with a license in pharmacies and in the institutions of our system, in health institutions, is absolutely according to the strictest standards on certain lists. That's one question I wanted, not to compromise, but to clarify. Secondly, concerning certain new technologies and procedures, including music therapy, although both topics are not directly related to the proposed amendments to the text of the law, a request must be made to the Ministry for the introduction of new technologies, i.e. procedures and the Ministry will consider and respond. It cannot only be agreed at a professional meeting, but it must simply be respected. Of course, I use the opportunity to thank everyone, and above all to my fellow doctors to the MPs, who both on the board and when they meet me elsewhere, they support me to do as much together as possible for the health system. I totally agree that this doesn't even look like a system law, this is one almost financial cosmetic change, but that fits into a set of financial laws, to stimulate our production and not to charge the permits when it comes above all to our industrial pharmaceuticals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3884	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3885	Dear President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I will be brief and I will try to stick to the agenda and the time limit. Now the minister herself said that this is essentially a law that is financial cosmetics. We have been considering this on the board, and on that committee we have received the confidence and announcement from the minister that the next amendment of the law is being prepared and we hope, listening to some of the remarks relating to the functioning of health care, that it will be discussed too, because the current minister is there for three months and it certainly takes some time to record a concrete previous situation, to find some solutions that we as doctors and certainly citizens as users of our services expect to do something better in the coming period, so we will probably discuss it in some future, when such legislation comes. This law has only one member, or amendment of the law, and another member refers to the beginning of the importance of the law. Practically, these changes are small, but are financially significant for those export-related entities. And this set of laws is, if our viewers looked at a number of those laws we voted here a month ago, and they refer to the manufacturer's financial reliefs, another brick within those laws to make it easier for the relevant entities, and here they think of those export-oriented producers, so now it's another segment of the closure of a group of these financial laws that facilitate the business of those exporting producers. It's also mentioned the number here to be provided and obtained by giving these permits. The point is, because that was also a question on the Committee, but we all understood clearly, these are not funds that reduce the finance ministry's budget to say for the sake of the public. These are the funds that go to the health agency anyway, so the health ministry's budget is not damaged, and on the other hand, the funds go away and there are savings for those who deal with production. So basically we as SNS support this law, we are aware of its limitations in terms of financial impact, but it is certainly a significant step forward and that is why we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3886	The next reported MP is Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3887	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the chairman, this is more of a editorial change in the Law that is before us, a very small editorial change. However, it is both essential and symbolic. Essentially, I'll talk about it a little later, and it's symbolic anyway because it's where we start at this point with changes in the health system that are absolutely necessary. It may be incomprehensible to tell someone and unpopular, but they keep attacking us that we might be back in the '90s. I think, as far as health care is concerned, it should be returned to the 1970s or 80s where we had a relatively healthy health system on very human grounds set. The system that has been functioning for decades has been met in the 1990s and all the evils that hit us in the 1990s, since wars, sanctions, bombings, famines, poverty, have managed to resist and provide health care to the people of Serbia as much as possible. Then came the revolutionary year 2000 and the revolutionaries to power who tried and managed to completely devastate in these 12 years, bring down the health system, and I can absolutely say they're criminalizing. So now we have a mass of laws favoring or allowing crime in health care. That's why this is a symbolic change, because what's this about? We have to go in a certain way from the beginning, which is from a change in all these laws and regulations. First we'd have to make a deal and make it more important whether the Ministry of Health or the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Currently in the situation where we are the Ministry of Health is a secondary institution, and the primary institution has a Republic Health Insurance Institute that brings in almost all sublegal acts that regulate not only organisational matters, but even in some situations and ways, and patient treatment protocols, which is unacceptable. Because there are people in that institution who are not from practice and there are a lot of people who, if I may say so, are fathers, not those who deal with medicine. So it's the only first thing you as minister should solve. We've talked about a lot of things on the Health Committee, and this is one of the things that we haven't talked about. Then, what is already a colleague, not to say again, Mrs Plassic spoke about it, and more colleagues talked about it, about private practice, whether or not, but in any case to enter the health insurance system and I would not talk about it because of the shortness of time. Then, what do we have to talk about, which is about an appointment and a payment or something? So, the review is scheduled in one way, if it's possible to pay, or after noon, then it can be later, so I don't elaborate because we've elaborated because we're limited in time and there's more colleagues to talk about. There's another thing that's very important, and someone mentioned it in a way, and that's a list of drugs, a negative and a positive list of medicines. The list of medications was reportedly complemented a while ago, the list of positive medications has been completed, but what has it been complemented by? It's filled with cheap products, cheap for production. It doesn't necessarily mean that every drug that's cheap and less effective, but it says that in one large percentage it's true. This has been a public eye blur, and here we are now making it easier for you to get to medicine by expanding the list of cheap medicines. It was just a blur, not a real effect to the people, or insurance, if I can say so to the citizens of Serbia. Another thing that no one has mentioned, which is the chamber law that we have to revise because when the registration was made to the chamber then two million euros were collected for registration, and the chamber takes every month 150 000 euros from health employees. I'm asking what the chamber is doing with that money. What has she done with this money and how has it improved the health care workers' condition in Serbia's healthcare system? So we get the impression that that money went into the wind, or it went on a completely different purpose to which it was meant to go. The fundamental changes, given the shortness of time, I will not speak, given that my colleagues have already said what this fundamental change is and I hope that we will vote on it. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote in favour of this amendment in the Law and any law that will restore dignity and trust, the dignity of health workers and the trust of Serbian citizens in the affected health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3888	The next reported is MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3889	Thank you very much. Dear President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are here tonight to discuss a law of one member, a law that belongs, as we are told, in a group of financial laws. This should mean that he will now do something in some sense to help the economy and to encourage our Serbian production, the pharmaceutical industry, and its entire value is somewhere around five million dinars. It is not a questionable wish at all and the Ministry's intention and I certainly imitate it with all my powers and I will support anyone who in this country in any way wants to help produce, but in any case, five million dinars or loss to the agency, nor is winning for the pharmaceutical industry. We're going to spend the whole evening here discussing this law and we're going to spend about half of what the annual profit from the release of payment permits, which, by the way, costs 10,000 dinars. Is there a fundamental problem with the pharmaceutical industry and our health, and is that the biggest problem we have to isolate it to be the only law that now, when it comes to health and medicine, is in general proposed. So we're told it's a cosmetic law and that we make up and make up and we put on and we try to show nothing but good intentions and that it's not really going to change anything. That's true, because the only pharmaceutical industry that is the most powerful in the world with 10,000 dinars will by no means increase some of its production. When it comes to the production and distribution of medicines, health care, the relationship of private and state, the possibility of citizens to come to a cure, the unequal relationship of state and private pharmacies, there are so many chaoss on all sides, and it's all so dehumanized that it doesn't help cosmetic changes but it takes some surgical changes, amputations, and Gods somewhere and castration. To tell you the truth, Serbian citizens live the shortest life in the Balkans according to our data. As soon as we live, we are the last of the EU-wide health care quality from 34 EU countries. We're here to discuss it on the one hand about the economy, about the pharmaceutical industry, and on the other hand about health care. Now that we're on our way, let's move a little bit to the economy that we want, the pharmaceutical industry to help with those five million and see how it works, how it wastes some of its earned money or money from Serbian citizens, and what are the sums in comparison to five million dinars a year that they'll all share together. I will refer to the problem of Galenika and say that it owes 100m euros at this point and has done so for four years, because in 2008, the state of the Galenika account was in plus 32m euros. Meanwhile, taking short- and long-term loans into 18 banks, Galenika made the 100m-euro debt and lost licenses and a license to produce individual medicines. Thus, when the new leadership came to Galenika in 2008, and 32m euros were found and they owed fivem euros in loans, with unusually large interest rates and all that money was immediately deposited with Velefarm as a special commission of 4.5%, amounting to about 225 000 euros. Galenika had a good foreign trade sector back then. In the factory there were extra workers, the CEO received an average of two and a half years of workers per day, so the fund for profits from 2.4 billion dinars increased to 3.6 billion dinars. A number of outside associates, consultants have also been paid, despite the fact that Galenika has personnel covering those areas. For the sculptures set up within the factory, a million and 100,000 euros were spent, and for a million and 100,000 euros, they could buy Michelangelo's "David" and put it in the yard of the Galenika factory and make it a kind of tourist offer. It's only for importing Pigal tests, it's drug-determining tests they tried to sell to the police, and the police wouldn't take them, because it's a problem how to use them, so people tried, and it turns out that those tests were past the deadline, and Galenika paid 500 thousand euros, and they're standing there somewhere in the warehouse, they got a deadline, and that's how 500 thousand euros were thrown. I don't want to talk about the centre of Moscow, that there are three sets of apartments that no one has ever bought, and there's not a single drug that's sold in the Russian market. Purchase M.D."Nini" two drugs, one Klopigal, and the other Aglimeks, totaling 6m and 900,000 euros for Serbia's needs for the next 10 years, and the deadline for these drugs is three years, and for some series, the deadline has already expired. Let's just say that the factory put out a new drug called Lipogal, and that's a cure for reducing fat in the blood, three million dinars were invested in marketing, for a TV spot of five million, Pink, who paid 51 million and spent total on marketing 59 million dinars, and all they managed to sell is 27 million, which means that 30 million minus is only one drug, and we're going to now with 10,000 dinars of support to raise them, to raise them production and make them giants who are likely to be proud of this Serbia someday. Let me just tell you one thing, that Pliva was sold for 2.2 billion euros, and it wasn't bigger than Galenika, to say that Lek Ljubljana was sold for a billion euros, and we're talking about how we're going to get a tax out of them. So what's the essence of this whole drama of ours, if I can say what we have in health care and the pharmaceutical industry and that citizens can't get to the cure, that many people and many workers can't even get to the doctor or the medicine, and when we look at all that, then it makes sense that we've been sitting down for the last 100 days. All those who know something in that health care and want to help, who, by a certain quality, organisation and knowledge, can do something, so that we have debated the Agency and health care for 100 days, medicines, the problems of the pharmaceutical industry, health problems at all, and the corruption in health and everything that bothers us about until we solve all these issues in front of this home with one serious strategy, a strategy that will solve even for a future period of time the possibilities and rights and laws, and bring everything into line with one text, to go to the public and not to discuss this kind of partial old people, that would be better, but it's better every step forward, even if it was small, but it's very small, but it's better than standing in place. I hope that the little steps next will be more successful, that there will be far more in general as part of this general health exit strategy, as a serious and major problem that we have in society.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3890	The word is Mrs Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3891	The President-in-Office of the Assembly, the Honorable Ministers, as amended and complemented by the provisions of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, which concern the tariffs on the collection of the Agency's services in Article 11, as we have seen, is deleted point 5, which reads: the issue of assurance for the purposes of exporting medicinal products and medical resources in accordance with WHO regulations. After point 5 which is deleted follows Article 11 of this Act, point 6 which is not mentioned anywhere in the text of the Review of the Amendment and Supplement Act, which reads: the approval of imports of medicinal products and medical remedies for the treatment of a particular patient or group of patients, as well as medicines and medical remedies for scientific research, so I wanted to ask the Honorable Minister, was the error, by accident or intentionality of this point of the law omitted and was the import planned at all for such a type of research? After this point 6, which has been accidentally or intentionally abandoned, follows the point 7 which provides for the creation of favourable conditions for business operators and all actors, starts with drug manufacturers and those dealing with traffic, importers, exporters, so that the benefits of this law are to reduce the costs paid by all these mentioned participants in the drug and medical means market, so that the SNS will vote on this amendment and supplementing the provisions of the laws on medicines and medical means. Since we are limited in time, I will only briefly, since I am a doctor, and in the company of my colleagues, consider it necessary to point out some of the following very important things concerning the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, which gives these tariffs on the charging of services. I have here in my hands a document from June 2009 on the quality policy of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Resources of Serbia, and I will not read it, and as far as the quality of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Serbia is concerned, based on the mission and vision and strategy, and since the mission of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Serbia, the issue of permits for the marketing of exclusively quality safe and effective medicines and medical means, I ask if the drug Bisoprolol, which belongs to a group of beta-blockers, and the products of "NI MEDIK" Nis, has the same bioequivalent, as has the same generic drug Concor, which is not on the list of RZO, where Bisoprol is on the positive list, and Concor does not. I'd like to remind you that Concord is an original drug. The same applies to the generic name of the drug Amolodipine, which belongs to the calcium-blockator group, and to the factory equivalents that exist on the market in our country, while they are on the positive list Alopres that produces "Health" Leskovac, Almogal "Galenika", amlodipine "Jugoridia", Monodipine "Farma Swiss", Vazotal "Hemofarm". It's about domestic drug manufacturers. From foreign producers on the positive list of RZ are Amlopin "Sandoz" and Norway's "Fiser's" Lek. I ask if it is necessary for seven of the same medicines to exist in Serbia, which is not the case with countries in the region and the EU. Nowhere in the world is there that you have at least five domestic producers and two import producers of the same drug on the market, so there is a question on which criteria all producers have entered the positive list, because in the countries of the region this relationship is one to three, which means one import drug and three domestic drugs. What we can see from the accompanying, our market is flooded with generic drugs, because we're just missing that so-called rulebook. bioequivalent studies to be conducted in order to register a generic drug. The Agency has granted a marketing authorisation, the Ministry of Health approves a positive list of medicinal products for the Republic of Slovenia. Different factories, as we have seen in the country and abroad, are doing the same medicine, that is, generic medicine, but the question of the quality of the medicinal product, the origin of the medicinal product and the technological design of the medicinal product is raised. Furthermore, the Regulation on clinical trials of medicinal products in Serbia is incomplete and corresponds to the relevant EU rules, because it is necessary, as we know, to place the medicinal product on the market, i.e. From substance to tablet, to finished product, has passed at least six to seven years of clinical trials on all population groups, with hundreds of millions of dollars to be allocated for one medicine. At the end of the presentation, I would refer to the Internal Organisation Regulation, the systematization of the Agency's jobs and medical means. In this Regulation, it states that jobs are designed to assess the documentation of the biological availability and biological equivalence of the medicinal product, for the workplace for information on medicines and medical means, to require performers who need to meet the following conditions – master, academic studies or specialist academic studies, to pass a state exam, a year of work experience and knowledge of English language. These are general conditions for a job and I ask – is it for those jobs and I think it is, is it necessary for the candidate to have completed a health specialization that lasts for four years, called drug and pharma-informatics analysis? If that wasn't the case, it would be equivalent if I were a gynecologist doing the work of a specialist doctor, intern or ophthalmologist. Finally, given the vision of the Agency, which is to build a recognizable image and organisational structure, I sincerely hope that the Agency will build the culture and image of a reference institution, which should play a leading role in the realization of the vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3892	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3893	The Honorable President, Madam Minister, given that I have been informed by the director that I have three minutes to make this presentation packed, then I would say that medicine in Serbia is a sacred word which is a curse and an oath among our people. The famous former regime has made sure that the sacred medicine gets people out of hand because they have completely poored him and expelled him from the production process because factories have also completely destitute him in various ways. For example, since I do pulmology, where there are very expensive medicines, if they are expensive, they are basically from a younger generation and to be effective people have to use them as prescribed. Up until two years ago, it was the case that when you notice that a patient missed something of your medication and you tell him in his office, he's ashamed and blushed, he doesn't know how to behave. In the last year, thanks to this regime that was before us, they have completely destitute themselves, so they begin to boast in the halls who were less capable of buying and obtaining drugs. So they enter the office, and they say, "I have obtained one or none of these from all of them; I have come to counsel, and there is no conversation, and there is no end to it." Given that this is a small step to improve the state of health, at least in the pharmaceutical industry, I hope it will not be the last one, and I hope that never again in our health care will happen to give up any parent soy, which was the case with the pheasant, which was given to us by President Teodor Roosevelt, who was kicked out of use from Belgrade as a parent soy that of course brought profits to our country. He was thrown out with an explanation that he might be able to leak out, walk into Belgrade and then perform an allergic event. That should prevent the transport of penicillin by truck, so the truck can crash and do the same damage. Given that we have had this penicillum, that we have lost it, that it has brought income to this country, because thanks to the collapse of Galenika and many other companies we have lost many licences, since the Agency for the Registration of Medicinal Products, for the granting of a marketing authorisation, for giving of various consent, spends on anyone from domestic and foreign pharmaceutical houses for several months to even a few years, all of this naturally collects drugs and hopefully, in the future, this ministry and this government will not have a problem with having a faster response to such irregularities, to limit time-limiting the issue of drug licenses, the time of issue of diverse consent, as it will encourage that agency that will not charge these taxes on exports, to help export producers and to obtain the market for medicines and various suggestions and analysis that should be provided to the producers, in fact, that some of the product in fact, in fact, in fact, it would take into consideration and in order to give some of our product into the country, the short term, the goods in which we would be in which we would be in the country. Given everything I've said, I hope that, and that, of course, I agree with the discussions, especially my predecessors, Predrag Mijatovic and Branislav Blazic, that time is limited, I would therefore end up hoping that we will continue with health reforms in all segments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3894	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. In the words of Dr. Zoran Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3895	I'll be brief, really, as it says - with this opposition power, we don't need the opposition, as you can see. We are on an agreed story called – the Minister's proposal, we were almost all doctors who were here my fellow MPs, we were on the Health Committee, together we found a change which, let's say, was suggested by the World Organisation and cosmetics. We're here, not only from my colleagues, but also just before Aligrudic's MPs whom I can't reach, he's always run away from me, he's escaped from the Health Committee, he's run away from me now. So he comes, says and goes. I need someone to answer him. So, we know perfectly well from the SPS, but in the sense that we know where the problems are related to the equalization of private practice and state practice, we know where to and right and who to solve problems from which level of state, corruption, we know how to solve all this, and a number of questions are open, and we have answered only one thing. A change of cosmetic, a change that was necessary and thus affirmed the beginning. The system laws will be dealt with, my dear colleagues, later, together, in agreement, as you can see, we've all been left alone, and we've been talking about little cosmetics alone for three hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-10-30-0.u3896	Thank you. I'm concluding a principle search on the bill and we're continuing session tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 110 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Jelena Mijatovic, Susana Spasojevic, Borislav Pelevic, Velimir Stanojevic and Slavica Savic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry, Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Transport and Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, I have called on the members to attend and Vlajko Senić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry, Dejan Popović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment, Vesna Hreljac Ivanovic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Industry, Branko Drcelic, Director of Public Debt Management and Aleksandar Kocić Rangelović, adviser at the Ministry of Finance and Industry – Public Debt Management. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in points 5, 6 and 8 of the agenda, given that the government has withdrawn from the procedure the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on co-operation in the field of energy, which was scheduled to be considered as the 7th item of the agenda of this session. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
