ParlaMint-RS_2012-05-31-1.u3	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 31 May 2012 (The session began at 14.10 p.m. The meeting is chaired by Zechariah Trnavcevic, the oldest National MP of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-05-31-1.u4	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. I would like to inform you that they are also invited to attend the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the National MPs and elected President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic: Former President of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister, Vice-President and Minister of Government, Secretary-General of the Government, Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, President of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, Chief of Staff of the Serbia Army, Director of Police, Director of Security Information Agency, Director of the Military and Security Agency, Director of the Military Intelligence Agency, Director of the Military Intelligence Agency, Civilian General, Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning and Protection of Personality Data, Commissioner for Equal Justice, President of the State Auditory, President of the Anti-Corruption Agency, President of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, President of the Constitutional Court of the Constitutional Court, President of the Supreme Court, Republic of the Public Prosecutor, Prosecutor of Justice, Prosecutor of the Prosecutor of the War, Prosecutor of the Prosecutor for the Criminal Crimes, President of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, Presidents of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia. They were also invited to attend today's session: His Royal Highness, the Crown Prince Alexander and his wife, the Prime Minister of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and the President of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, the Mayor of Belgrade and the President of the Belgrade City Assembly, as well as all candidates who participated in the 2012 elections for the President of the Republic. Let me say hello to the esteemed guests on your behalf. Dear People's MPs and distinguished guests, this special session was convened on the basis of Article 114(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the President of the Republic swears an oath before the National Assembly when entering office. A report by the Republic Election Commission on the elections held for the President of the Republic, held on 6 and 20 May, was submitted to all MPs. On the basis of the results of the re-voting, the Republic Election Commission has determined that it is in accordance with Article 21(1) for the President of the Republic. The law on the election of the President of the Republic, elected Tomislav Nikolic, who won the largest number of votes in the re-vote, held on 20 May 2012. In this way, the conditions for the President of the Republic, acting pursuant to Article 114(3), were met. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia takes an oath before the National Assembly. I remind you that, according to Article 262. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, swears by reading out loud the Constitution of the established text of the oath. After the oath has been made, the President of the Republic shall sign the text of the oath. I ask Mr Tomislav Nikolic, elected President of the Republic, to take an oath before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-05-31-1.u5	(The President of the Republic, Tomislav Nikolic, reads for the speaker the following text of the oath set out in Article 114(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. ) "I vow to dedicate all my strengths to the preservation of sovereignty and the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia, including Kosovo and Metohia as its constituent part, as well as to the achievement of Ljudic and Maninian rights and freedoms, respect and defence of the constitution and laws, the preservation of peace and prosperity of all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that I will knowingly and responsibly fulfil all my duties. "
ParlaMint-RS_2012-05-31-1.u6	Thank you. Now I ask you to listen to the national anthem. (Intonation of the Anthem "God of Justice") I ask the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, to sign the text of the oath. Allow me to congratulate Mr Tomislav Nikolic on your behalf and on my behalf the President of the Republic of Serbia. I ask Mr Tomislav Nikolic, President of the Republic, to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-05-31-1.u7	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. former President, I do not like that word by law, Your Excellency, Your Honor, dear guests, I thank the citizens who elected me as president of Serbia and whose will I have made a public oath before you today on the principles that have long been an integral part of my life. Serbia is a country destroyed by the general crisis. The proof of that is the everyday life of the citizens. Unresponsibly and unknowingly privatized privatisation with many forms of robbery of people's property, and as a consequence we have unemployment and poverty; corruption; bribery and crime of every kind that has produced general uncertainty and mistrust in the institutions; abandoning the village; abandoning the whole parts of the country and pressure on cities; a negative rise in the population, and this has the consequence of the nation's old and prospects for the future are pessimistic. We gave in to the non-democratic principles in the development of the country. The result is the persecution of those citizens who are designated as political rivals. The media has been placed under control and are owned by political elites. The result is political persecution of competition, even judicial reform has been carried out in line with party interests and orders. The result is the solar return of justice and justice in our country. Monopolies everywhere you turn, citizens pay. I want a different Serbia. Finally united in the fight for a better life. Serbia in which children will rejoice every new day, proud to have the opportunity to compete with peers in the world. I want Serbia free from tomorrow's fear, a house that has two doors, east and west. I want Serbia to be an equal member of the European Union and that will never give up its sovereignty and territorial integrity, its Kosovo and the Metohija. I sincerely want us to succeed and realize the wishes of the citizens I have brought to you. If you fight for people, start Serbia and make life a better life, I will help you with the strength that the Constitution gives me and the way I've been chosen. In political life, I spent 20 years in opposition and I have often been the victim of injustice and democracy, I will not stop fighting, until Serbia fights crime and corruption, monopoly and the rule of political elite, and until it becomes a legal, fair and democratic state of equal citizens with the same chances for all. I want both of you and me, I want all of us to be happy in our work. Thank you for your honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-05-31-1.u8	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I hereby conclude the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Thank you. Excuse me, I'm asking everyone to attend a formal cocktail in the central hall of the House of the National Assembly. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the Constitutional session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whose first part began on 31 May 2012. And let me tell you right now, by my estimate, it's been a little bit more time than there was going to be a significant necessary job, which is the expression of one state in this country, that time doesn't really appreciate it very much. Time as a non-refundable value is once used and it is a sign of our desire, our ability to be more productive than we've ever been before. I call upon you as the oldest MP, who in about ten minutes will leave this place, that you have this in mind and that this house is more valuable to time and in this respect to be productive with a great, visible effect that will bring about change. Thank you for listening to these few of my messages. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 154 MPs attend this session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly at the First Session of the National Assembly exists if most of the national MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 161 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present, which is the condition that the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5) is present. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are fully operational. The agenda for this session was set earlier, you have it in front of you and we will stick to that agenda. In accordance with Article 87(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have scheduled this session to continue for today, on Monday, because of the need for the National Assembly to complete the work on the remaining points of the agenda, and thus complete the constitution, namely the election of the president and the staff of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they are in the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 22. The following parliamentary groups have been established by the Parliament Group of the Serbian Progressive Party, the President of the Parliamentary Group has been appointed by Aleksandar Vucic, and his deputy MP, Dr. Jorgovanka Tabaković; the Democratic Party's parliamentary group has been designated as the President of the Parliamentary Group by Dragoljub Micunović, and as his deputy National MP Balša Bozović; the Socialist Party of Serbia's MP, Ivica Dačić, and as his deputy, the National MP, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović; the Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica, the President of the Parliamentary Group, is appointed as the President of the Parliament Group of the Parliament of the National Group of the Republic of Serbia; and for his deputy MP, Mr. Miračko Radanjko Radanska Krajak, the Parliament of the Liberal Democratic Party, for the Group of the Democratic Group is appointed by the Parliament of the Group of the Group of the Members of the Parliament of the Group of the Group of the Group of the Group of the Group of the Group of the Members of the Group of the Nationals of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia. I call on the youngest MPs, who were at the First Constitutional Session, to come to the presidency and take their seats: Jelena Budimirovic from the electoral list Let's run Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic, Jovana Joksimovic from the election list Selection for a better life – Boris Tadic, Nevena Stojanovic from the election list PUPS, Bojana Bozanic from the election list DSS – Vojislav Kostunica. Veljko Odalovic is here. We're in full shape now, so we can get back to work. We continue according to this agenda, which is – the election of the president of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 9. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, received one proposal from the National Assembly president. The proposal has been delivered to you. As you have seen, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, elected National MP on the Electoral List, was proposed to run Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic. I remind you, according to Article 9, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the proposing representative, can explain the proposal. Does the proposing representative want to explain the candidate's proposal for National Assembly President? (Yes) The word has Alexander Vukitch. Here you go.
