ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66035	The second extraordinary session was held on 27 February 2012 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 10:30 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 118 MPs. In order to determine precisely the number of Members present in the room, I would ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. I figure there's 126 of us, which means there's working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs Esad Djudjevic and Mladen Grujic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set by Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and extremely for Monday, so also beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to review the draft agenda acts set out in the Government's request to hold an extraordinary session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for meetings with the representatives of the motions of Dr Mirko Cvetković, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure and Energy, Dr Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education and Science and Mrs. Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice, I invited the sittings to attend Nemanja Komazac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment, Mines and Spatial Planning, Goran Radosavljević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Vuk Djovrović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Energy in the Ministry of Finance, Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrovica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Education, Dusan Radosavljević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Vuk-General of Finance, Vuk Rakić, Minister of Energy, Minister of the Ministry of Energy and Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Zagreb, Mr. Dear ladies and gentlemen Members of the Assembly of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, which was convened at the request of the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 148 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Second Extraordinary Session with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see for the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 the next Dn e n i d 1 was set up. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Society General Bank of Serbia, Erste GCIB Finance and B.V. Amsterdam, Uni Credit Bank Serbia a.d. Belgrade and Aik Banka, a.d. Nis according to the responsibility of Galenika a.d. Belgrade, which was submitted by the Government, 2. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank of Belgrade under the responsibility of the Action Society for Air Traffic "JAT" Airways, a.d. Belgrade, which was submitted by the Government, 3. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Unicredit Serbia a.d. Belgrade for the construction of Annex hangar 2, bringing in a work function of maintenance and handling for the already won type of aircraft Boeing 737 NG and equipment for the acquisition and operation of aircraft type Airbus 320 after the assignment of "Jat-Technika" d.o.o. Belgrade, which was submitted by the Government, 4. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Hypo Alpe-Adria banka a.d. Belgrade and Society Generale Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade to change the obligations of the construction directorship of Serbia d.o.o. Belgrade, on the basis of a loan agreement for the construction of residential and business facilities at the "Stepa Stepanovic" barracks in Belgrade, which was submitted by the government, 5. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia to the benefit of Japan International Cooperation Agency under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Electro-priority of Serbia", Belgrade, which was submitted by the Government, 6. Proposal for a bill confirming the guarantee treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "The City of Belgrade Bridge on the Sava/A, the City of Belgrade bridge on the Sava/B and the access roads", submitted by the government, 7. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (EPS Small Power Plants Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, submitted by the Government, 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Loan Agreement F/P 1739 between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government, 9. Proposal for a law confirming a loan agreement for a credit to a privileged buyer for the first phase of the KOSTOLAC-B-Off-PLAN PROJECTS project between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a borrower and the Chinese Export-Import Bank as a lender, which was submitted by the government. Ten. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a borrower and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan as a lender for the financing of the construction of the shares of Ljig-Boljkovci, Bolkovci-Takovo and Takovo-Preljina highway E-763 in the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government, 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia "Apeks Loan for Small and Medium Enterprises and Medium-sized Enterprises of Central Market Capitalisation II/C", submitted by the Government, 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty (Improvement of judicial bodies) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which was submitted by the Government, 13. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Japan on the Project for the Construction of a Disposal facility for the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant, which was submitted by the Government, 14. A bill confirming the Agreement on Economic and Technological Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, which was submitted by the Government, 15 / 15 Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) on the granting of the status of associated membership as a stage preceding the membership of CERN, which was submitted by the government. 16. Proposal for a bill to confirm the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe on the financing of the Social Inclusion Education Project, submitted by the Government, 17. Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Lifelong Learning Action Programme (2007-2013), which was submitted by the Government, 18. Proposal for a law confirming amendments to Articles 1 and 18. Agreement establishing the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government, 19. Proposal for a law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation, which was submitted by the Government, 20. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the field of maritime traffic, which was submitted by the Government, 21. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Long-term Organic Contaminant Substances of the 1979 Convention on Transboundary Air Contaminants at Large Distances, submitted by the Government, 22. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Heavy Metals with the 1979 Convention on Transboundary Air Contamination, submitted by the Government, 23. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union establishing a framework for the participation of the Republic of Serbia in European Union crisis management operations, with statements by the Republic of Serbia and the Member States of the European Union on the waiver of claims filed by the Government, 24. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange and protection of classified information submitted by the Government, 25. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on co-operation and mutual assistance in emergency situations, submitted by the Government, 26. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the protection of confidential information and materials exchanged in the context of co-operation in the area of the military industry, submitted by the Government, 27. A bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on co-operation in the area of defence, which was submitted by the government. You were presented with the minutes of the 11th extraordinary session, the 3rd session of the Second Regular Session, the 5th session of the Second Regular Session and the 6th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions (Article 88(5)). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Board, it has been determined that none of the Members of the Parliaments has been sent to that committee in writing of the objection to those minutes, so we are moving to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 7, 8, 26, 29 September and 26 December 2011. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. Of the 131 MPs, 122 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held 7, 8, 9, 26 September and 29 December 2011. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 22, 23, 24, 28 and 30 November and 1 and 5 December 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 116 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held 22, 23, 24, 28 and 30 November and 1 and 5 December 2011. I am voting on the minutes of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 15, 16, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 26 December 2011. Please press the corresponding key. Of the 128 MPs, 120 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 5th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 15, 16, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 26 December 2011. I am voting on the minutes of the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 26, 27, 28 and 29 December 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 122 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 6th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 26, 27, 28 and 29 December 2011. Dear Members of the People, the People's MP, Nada Kolundzija, is under Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), paragraphs 2 and 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have proposed that, as you received in the proposal, a joint, principled and unique search of the points I have just informed you of is being carried out in two parts. Part one and part two. Does the People's MP, Mrs. Hope Kolundji, want a word? No, I don't. I put to the vote the proposal of the People's MP, Nada Kolundzhija. Please make a statement. Of the 127, 125 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. We move on to a common, unique, principled search of the first part of today's agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint, principled single search on these points of the agenda, from 1 to 13, and before the opening of a joint principled single search, I remind you that it corresponds to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be the total time of debate for parliamentary groups for five hours and shall be distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia for one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the parliamentary group Forward Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the SPS – JS has authorised Mr Zoran Kasalovic to represent this parliamentary group, as well as the DSS authorised by Mr Milan Dimitrijevic, the SRS parliamentary group has also authorised MP Dejan Mirovic. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and to Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled single search on: Proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Social General Bank of Serbia, Belgrade, Erste GCIB Finance and B.V. Amsterdam, United Credit Bank of Serbia a.d. Belgrade and Aik Bank, a.d. Nis according to the responsibility of the Galenika a.d. Belgrade, who submitted the Government; Proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank of Serbia a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Action Society for Air Traffic "JAT" Airways, a.d. Belgrade, which submitted the Government; the proposal for a law on granting a guarantee to the Republic of Serbia in favour of Unicredit Serbia a.d. Belgrade for the construction of the Anex hangar 2rd of the Bank for the already won by Boeing 737 NG aircraft and equipment in order to obtaining Serbia's implementation of Serbia. Belgrade, on the basis of the Treaty on Credit for the Construction of Residential and Business Objects at the site of the "Stepa Stepanović" barracks in Belgrade, which was submitted by the Government; the proposal of the law on the granting of a guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to the benefit of the Japan International Cooperation Agency under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred of Serbia", Belgrade, which has submitted to the Government; the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "The City of Belgrade bridge on the Sava/B Treaty of the Bank, the City of Belgrade bridge on the Sava/B access routes", which the Government has submitted; the proposal for a law on the approval of the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia (EPS Project for Small Hydro Power Plants) between the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, which has submitted its proposal for the first law on the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia; Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at 1200 hours we will have a representative of the promoter, and we will proceed with the work. I'm setting a break by 12.00 hours. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask if Dr Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning wants a word, as a representative of the Proposer? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66038	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have a set of ratifications of different agreements that should significantly be repaired and completed in many areas of our lives. As president of the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, let me tell you more today about the reasons why it is important to pass a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Hypo-Alpe-Adria Banka and the Social Generale Bank when it comes to the completion of the "Stepa Stepanovic" housing complex in Belgrade, and at the expense of Serbia's construction directorship. I believe that during the day we will have the opportunity to discuss other projects, and I expect that during today several of my fellow ministers will also attend the debate on other topics. As you know, the global economic crisis has dramatically affected the economy of all countries of the world. The dramatic fall was right in the area of real estate and in the construction sector. During 2010 and 2011, precisely because of this crisis, due to an extremely large decline in demand on the real estate market and a decline in activity in the construction sector, there are five million construction workers left in Europe alone. Unfortunately, this negative trend has not bypassed our country as well. We during 2009, predicting that the trend in the construction sector would be negative, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia decided to act and act through a special law, which is the Law on aid to the construction industry and through the launch of several major projects that should employ construction operations. It is then imagined that the Republic of Serbia would become an active participant in construction works in Serbia, which was not nearly a few decades long, and then several large and complex projects were formed after an emergency procedure. Perhaps the largest and most pronounced of them was precisely exploiting military land in the "Stepa Stepanovic" barracks, or former barracks "July 4th", for building a large residential complex. In addition, we launched 250 construction projects throughout Serbia during 2010-2011 and these days we expect to launch a social housing process, building 1700 apartments in 12 cities on the territory of the Republic. Thanks to all these projects, we managed to achieve good results after an extremely large fall in the construction sector and after the extremely negative statistics we had, in 2011, by hiring a construction operation, and we ended up in 2011 with a total of 17% of the growth in the construction sector, and therefore we are one of the few countries in Europe that had growth in the construction sector during the 2011 crisis. The project to help the construction industry under the conditions of the global economic crisis has managed to employ around 80,000 construction workers who would certainly not have had a job and certainly wouldn't have had a job if it hadn't been for these projects. We've hired several hundred large construction companies and thousands of small construction companies. We have significantly employed capacities in the production of construction materials and achieved the effect that has been drawn when the whole project is imagined and the whole project has been realized from the very beginning. I note that the overall project to help the construction industry is realised as soon as possible and that just the activity of construction companies at the site of Stepa Stepanovic and throughout Serbia is the best response to all those criticisms that were initially about the state's inability to lead or bring about a question as to whether the state should react and be an active participant in construction activities or something that should be left to the private sector. Right away, the idea and plan of the state is not to be a builder in the future. The state should remain a significant and active partner in building social housing, and most of the operational activities, when it comes to housing, should be left to the private initiative. Also, the adoption of the Law on Public-private Partnership opened the possibility for the state to remain an active participant in activities in the construction sector through public-private partnership models in the future. I believe in the future we'll be able to present a few of those models. The reasons why it is necessary for this loan to be realised are that it is necessary to raise additional funding in order to complete the project financially. To complete this project, which is worth about 250m euros, we need to find a few more tens of millions of euros. It was precisely because all business banks had very strict conditions and decided to cut off the project financing activities in the apartment and any other financing in terms of real estate activity that was necessary to find the additional 35m euros needed to complete the project. For this reason, it was necessary for these funds to be provided. These funds were provided through loans that the state of Serbia, or the Building Directorate, took from these two banks. The total value of all these loans is about 35m euros. What I'm saying right now is that these aren't loans taken for public consumption. Today, here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are merely making a fact-finding decision on the granting of guarantees for the realisation of these loans, which will be realised through the model of project financing, where no budget money will be spent on building these apartments, but these dreams will be sold at market prices and all the money that is thus being paid back to the construction directorate, i.e. there will be no segment of public spending that would burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is precisely for the reason that this project is successfully finalised that I invite you to vote for this law, as I urge you to vote for all other laws that are today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66039	I thank Minister Dulic. Do any of the committees in charge want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66040	Madam President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have not called to speak as head of Parliament. You know what, we have 13 laws in front of us, Minister Dulic was only talking about one thing. Can someone take enough responsibility and explain to parliament why they should owe the country almost a billion euros, even by offering us some arguments? We can talk about the argument Mr. Dulic came up with, but we have something to talk about. Who's our JAT interviewer? Who's talking to Galenika? Who is our spokesman for the remaining 12 laws, which should be discussed within one item of the agenda? It's simple, I'd ask you to provide us with normal working conditions, otherwise this is a monologue. It's pretty pointless, and it's a very serious situation. I don't mind Mr. Dulic explaining that, too. There was a situation where, truth be told, the dissent ministers did something like that, but at least let the minister read those laws and tell the public what the country is in charge of. He said about this bill of his, and we can agree on it or not, but it's interesting to hear the argument for these other loans that need to be approved. It is the essence of the government's representatives at the session, not simply the presence of someone who will open a session and then leave it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66041	Mr Jovanovic, as usual, I have called on the representatives of the motions and I will read to you the address of Mr Cvetkovic, who says that he informs us that for the representatives of the Government in the National Assembly when considering the proposed laws, there are certain: Mr Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure and Energy and Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education and Science. It is likely that the ministers in different parts of the day will be here, so the government's proposal is that the authorised promoters are fully actively involved in the work. The word has a Minister Dulic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66042	I agree with you, Mr. Jovanovic. The debate would certainly be better quality if my fellow ministers were here. What I can say is that they will come during the day. We expect Minister Zarko Obradovic to come too, we expect him to come to the Assembly and Minister Milutin Mrkonjic. They'll be here soon and I'm here today. I ask you one thing, always the one who comes and comes because it's his duty, because that's what the Rules of Procedure requires, but he comes and to honor this home, he always gets the ugly and gets the criticism of those who aren't there. Please, simply, when the ministers arrive, debate them and discuss other topics, today I have come to defend a particular law, to defend the arguments and the reasons why it is necessary to guarantee the state. Of course we'll answer all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66043	Thank you. Does one of the presidents or authorized representatives want a word? (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the place: Replica. ) The word has a National MP, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66044	Ma'am, I called to speak with Minister Dulic. I have no intention of criticizing you for your presence. It's simple, we came here at 10.00 hours, we took a break until 12.00 hours, you had some obligations, but the dots were connected, Mr. Dulic. The agenda points are connected. Thirteen laws are before us, and you defend one. Are you our talker for Galenika? There's nothing you can say about that. I don't even want to put that Galenika on your back. Where's the director of Galenice? Why do we owe Galenika 60 million euros? Why is it a different interest rate and a margin on the credit we take for Galenika than the ones we take for Elektroprivreda, from the ones we take for help through your Ministry of Construction? It's simple, when the agenda comes together, then it's a prerequisite for a normal debate and discussion, if it has to be normal, that we have someone to talk to about it. A billion euros is the average interest rate which is five times the growth of the social product we can imagine. That's all it's about. Get us someone who can talk to us about these other issues or discuss your law. You simply can't talk about it, you can collegiately say – the government is discussing it and that's it. This could have been a technical question, but the Prime Minister came and explained to us why it's done now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66045	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66046	Dear President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 16(4). The public debt law is prescribed to give guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in the form of laws. We believe that the provision is good, because it primarily provides debate in parliament and public insight into the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, which is certainly good and useful for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Socialist Party of Serbia – Unique Serbia believes that debt to capital investment, investment in the real sector, in production, and then to refinance some of the commitments that are much more unfavourable than those that we can achieve, is considered acceptable, because they are primarily created and the preconditions that from their own incomes in the future these loans are being returned and therefore we want to support in principle all proposals of the law on guaranteeing and confirming contracts and agreements which are subject to this principle debate, which is 13. First of all, I would like to say more about the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the group of banks, the business banks "Socite General" "Unicredit Banka" "Erste Banka" and "AIK Banka" under the responsibility of AD "Gallenika". My colleagues will talk a little more about the other draft laws which are subject to this principle debate. A significant prerequisite for granting this guarantee under the mandate of AD "Gallenika" to these business banks is, above all, envisaged to give this guarantee in the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia to finance short-term commitments up to 70m euros, which means that the debate on the budget is under discussion and on this subject, and that parliament has already said in some way. The Galenika stock company as the only domestic drug manufacturer certainly has a very important place in the health system because the work of Galenika also depends on normal supply of our market with medicines that, according to some estimates, could include 50% of the needs of our markets. That is why this is currently one of the most important issues, i.e. issues in our health care, which has been publicly spoken of several times by the resolution minister of health Mr. Stankovic himself. Of course, some kind of unplanned disorder or major problem in the work of Galenika would be a big problem and it is not difficult to assume that the biggest losers and only losers would be patients who would be in danger of losing their medications or drugs at very high and unacceptable prices. That's why I think there's a few things to say, when it comes to the work of Galenika, and that last year Galenika produced 22 deficit drugs, for example, one of them is heparin, which must, of course, always be present in patients for kidney patients, and here, on this case, we can see how much a problem would be for these severe patients. By operating nearly three quarters without any kind of credit and borrowing, Galenika has reconciled a 2.5m-euro debt to suppliers, she has managed to re-program the talks with 18 banks, providing regular payments to over 2,000 employees in Galenica over the year and implemented a favourable social programme. However, Galenika also faces serious difficulties, primarily in the form of unpaid claims, primarily from wholesales, which were around 115m euros in June of last year, in order to charge the debt in some form of a planned approach to some 85m euros, but of course they are still significant and are not only the problem of Galenika, because it is a circle in which the state of Serbia is located towards large-scale drugs, through funds, and of course it must be taken into account. On the other hand, it should be said that the funds of this 70 million dinar loan will refinance the short-term liabilities of 40m euros, which, by far more unfavourable terms than those of the agreement that is foreseen by this loan of AD "Galenika" with a group of business banks, and in this way the interest which were, therefore, for these short-term commitments of 40m euros, ranged somewhere in the range of 28%, 35, 36 and 40%, and this arrangement, which we are talking about today, following a three-month public procurement procedure for financial services, provides for a grace period of two years with a five-year maturity, a fixed interest, a nominal rate, which is variable with a three-month budget plus a fixed interest margin of 6,95%, a grant for the granting of a loan of 0.25% of this loan, will be subject to a substantial guarantee of this loan. There is no doubt that this arrangement will provide, above all, the full production capacity of our domestic drug manufacturer, which will in the medium term ensure the supply of the market to domestic medicines under the most favourable conditions. AD "Gallenika" will, in addition to refinance these unfavourable short-term commitments, reconcile urgent obligations towards foreign and domestic suppliers, and thus, we are convinced, will create preconditions for returning these funds from future revenues over the next seven years. For this reason, first of all, what will be patients, the SPS Parliament Club expressed its full support for this bill, as well as the other laws which are the subject of this principle debate, which my colleagues will discuss in the follow-up of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66047	Thank you, Mr. Kasalovich. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66048	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about 7% to 8% of this package borrowing of Serbia, because there is simply not enough time to talk about all things and the new borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, which I am sure has no limits. Today in the Assembly we are discussing another public debt that has arisen seems to me in the period from 2008 to today. The constitutional basis exists. The Public Debt Act says decisions can be made on this. Legally, everything's fine. But what's wrong? It is not right for Serbian citizens to be charged with another debt, 70m euros, although they have paid in some ways through contributions to health insurance. It is not right for Serbian citizens to pay for the loan. Why would Serbian citizens be the hostages of an irresponsible SPS policy and of an irresponsible state-owned enterprise? Let's go in line, see where these disorders are and to make the Serbian citizens realize they've been put in a situation where they have to pay another 70m-euro loan. On several occasions, Mr. Minister, I warned the Serbian public from this pay phone and asked the question of the former health minister and the current health minister – is Serbia threatened by drug shortages? From the former health minister, I received unmistakable answers or no response, and from the current health minister, I received the answer that there is no shortage, that it will not be, and that Serbia's market is fully supplied with drugs with world materials. I'll remind you just one detail. In a military regional hospital last year, a surgical block striked alongside patients. What did he strike for? Because there were no fixed assets, no anaesthetics, no sanity material, no gauze, no Band-Aids, no other things, no infusion solutions, so the surgeons locked themselves in that health center and didn't want to leave until the Republic of Serbia provided them with the means to work. The basic question that is raised here – are there protagonists of this borrowing, or public debt of Galenika? I think there is. Madam President, in 2009, you signed a technical co-operation agreement with Galenika, a business-technical co-operation with Galenika. Then you were warned by the Anti-Corruption Agency, so you resigned. Did you receive compensation for this business-technical cooperation? The media said the fee was about 700 euros. So, euro per euro, business-technical co-operation one after another, the third and slowly we reached the figure that the public debt has increased to 70m euros. It happens in a country where there is no control of the flow of money through a republican health insurance register. As MPs, we receive the budget of the Republic of Serbia, where there is one aggregate figure of nearly two billion euros, from which the Republic Institute collects all these funds, divides salaries to healthcare professionals, settles material costs, buys medicines and those on the burden of health insurance and those on hospitals and homes of health. The basic question is, do we, as MPs, have any rights, any opportunities to discuss the financial plan of the RZO? No, Madam President, no options. We are receiving knowledge, and since this is the same relationship between the executive authority and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which determines the directors of the RZO from the legislative authority, that the executive power dominates the legislative one, these things happen. As a result, it's a bad life for the citizens. The result is the return of this 70m-euro debt where guarantees are given. I'll give you a few examples. Madam President, and Mr. Minister, you'll see how pointless this report on the financial plan RZO is. When you look at the cost of medicines that go to primary health care and medicines that go to hospital institutions, so, secondary and therapeutic levels, you come up with one devastating number. In primary health care, these drugs are not full of four billion dinars, and in the secondary nearly 25 billion dinars. Those medicines that patients raise in pharmacies, for which, in most cases, they are participatory, these costs amount to 23.5 billion dinars, and the structure of such costs and what is paid is completely unknown. Besides, in addition to that kind of business, the following things happen. So, in that company, which I said at the beginning that it was run by SPS personnel, it happened that Galenika paid for the Thinker's Statuu, as many as 30,000 euros. So, the citizens of Serbia can see, you can take the position of the thinker, but you certainly won't get the Galenike Prize of 30,000 dinars. They will face a shortage of medications still, with the inability to treat, that someone is also denying you the certification of health books, to classify in the category of people who are completely disfigured. It's a state of mind in Serbia. It is so when a social enterprise does not conclude contracts with importers about importing drugs, but pays a commission of 4.5% to suppliers such as Velefarm. At this sum, for these billions I just read, a fee of 4.5% is substantial. And the immediate question, given that Galenika is a party prey - where does this commission go? What kind of funding? Whose funding? In the name of whom is funding, and everything from the back of this troubled people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66049	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66050	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not a bad situation in the country, given the seriousness of those who lead it, not to discuss such a great debt to the poorest European country. It might make sense to torture the minister by asking interest rates on loans that the state is taking, or at least, to answer a simple question – do you even know, Mr Dulic, how much in the pool is the amount of credit for these 13 guarantees that we need to grant today and thus enable the smooth functioning of our economic system? Do you know, Mr. Dulic? Do you think it's okay for a government official to come to Parliament in front of MPs and that he doesn't even know how many credits we have to grant today in a country that has violated all the rules of its public finances, cheated on the IMF, precisely because it couldn't respect the public finances policy and control its borrowing? Mr. Dulic, you are here a representative of the government who, seven to ten days before the vote is called, of the parliamentary majority that will never meet again, expects to approve a debt of 620m euros, a billion and 60m dollars and 28 billion 252m yen. Mr. Dulic, something under two billion euros. I have here an IMF response to our government's economic policy. Mr. Dulic, this is the institution we owe first of all to such financial stability in the country. It was the institution that guaranteed society a seriousness that could not provide actual authority. The IMF interrupted its arrangement with our country, withdrew money guaranteeing monetary stability, sustainability of our course, precisely because it was not ready to further understand the policy of the government that it thinks should stop, with its term of office, it should stop any normal life in Serbia. Is there a country in Europe that was in debt with the rhythm and extent of the borrowing of our Serbia? It doesn't exist, Mr. Dulic. Is there also a government in Europe that knowingly violates the rules that it has previously established? I mean, for example, public debt. Is there a normal party on the planet who would agree to vote in favour of nearly two billion euros, at incredible interest rates, without simply asking a question of responsibility? Why are you socialists talking about Galenika? You run that Galenika. Instead of MPs in the Assembly, I suppose they should be speaking the company's business results. What are they like? Less or more, the business results of all other public enterprises, which were transformed into party prey in the name of forming the ruling coalition. Where's our esteemed SPS colleague, the recent director of the Galenika? Because Mrkonjic is sending me to prison so that the responsibility of the Socialists who have lost out of Serbia because of the prison will not be questioned. You inherited that company with a plus of 6.5m euros in 2008, from the staff responsible for the DSS. I think I'm more critical of the DSS than you've ever been. The then director of Galenike left you a plus of 6.5m euros and two assistants. After two years, you leave behind a 14m-euro hole, 800 fully unwarranted employees of new people, a 50% increase in salary fund, and that we don't talk about all the other nonsense that is so vulgar that they don't need to be discussed at all in public. Serbia cannot be shot without being held accountable for such a thing. As the truth has never escaped from the past, it will never escape in the future. These debts are catastrophic, not because JAT techs don't need a hangar and not because we don't need everything to save Galenika, I don't think you're responsible for it, and not because we don't need a new thermocenter, and not because we don't need a bridge on Savi, but because that money disappears, because of the high price we pay by refusing to change old habits and old politics. There is, Mr. Dulic, a topic we can discuss. Why did our construction industry fail? What are the effects of the laws we've passed? Do you also know of a country where the construction industry can develop normally, if the economic circumstances and environments are as wrong as in Serbia? In Serbia, Apple would have failed and Google would have failed and Mercedes would have failed, said businessmen, not politicians. Let's try to see where the solution to the difficult economic situation is in two simultaneous actions. Determining responsibility and sanctioning for criminal results in public finances and, on the other hand, formulating a new policy. What does this new policy tell us? Respect for what is inevitable and what, however much you try to do, you cannot escape, not as any ruling coalition, nor will any other one be able to escape, privatization of the public sector, transformation of the public sector, abandonment of the policy of pulsism and demagogy, because it is not true that electricity will be free of charge. She's free in political promises. You can see how high her price is here. It's not true that roads are free. They are very expensive at their price and price, among other things, the politics of politicians who are responsible for the fact that we broke up a business project, and I mean that famous concession on the highway that we haven't done anything for four years, and that we are now in charge under incredible conditions in Azerbaijan, to perform machines in an election campaign and thus deceive once more citizens in Serbia. The difference between these companies and companies that are victims of irresponsible policies should be made. It's our duty to break up with that policy. What is Serbia's economic picture? Terrible. It's not exclusively the result of an economic crisis that shakes the world. Exchange indices are stronger than they were in 2008 when the crisis exploded. It is an incentive for that policy that has rejected the suggestions of our party, assuring Serbia that the crisis will bypass us, so that, after it bypasses us, it will act on our economy, so that in the end "Vol Street" or any other world stock exchange in our society will be presented as the culprits for the public, pure crime, political irresponsibility and hypocrisy. If we cannot influence Greece's ability to service our own debts, Europe's willingness to negotiate and solve its internal problems, we must be able to influence the very society and situation in which Serbia is, in all these situations where an absolute solution depends on our willingness to do so. The IMF left Serbia, withdrew funds guaranteeing stability, for example, the dinar course. It is not true that the policy served here through this easy expectation of giving absolute guarantees is the only policy that leads to a solution. No, withdrawing politics from the economy, elections, forming responsible authorities, transforming the public sector, privatising those systems that need to be privatised, forming a corporation in those sectors where we want to preserve the influence of the state, primarily electricity, and once again, a clear responsibility for what is being done in Serbia's economy. We have, like, the National Infrastructure Council. What are the results of the work of this council? Is there an engineer on that board? Is there anyone who's been engaged in the economy, at least economically? These are the anomalies I'm talking about. You don't have to tell people the truth. These loans are not taken to preserve their jobs. These loans are taken to preserve election platforms by the very day of the vote. Who's gonna get this back? The economy that does not have the right to support the state, the private sector. We saw, people were employed in Galennica, and in Serbia the unemployment rate grew. Realistically, she's over 30%, not 24. Where are the other people without a job? In the private sector, where almost 90% of Serbia's GDP is created. Who's saving himself with these loans? Public sector. The one who accumulated 45% of Serbia's social product and broke that line. Some estimates are 51%. That public sector that's responsible for dinar collapse, that public sector that you haven't reformed because you weren't able to run the policy that our society needs. In this sense, the economic policy of the state is by no means different from any other policy, but in other policies, let's say for Kosovo, there are those who are interested in solving this problem to a greater extent than the abilities that are on our side, so they solve it, just as we have always suggested. You didn't hear too much about what they told you in 2010 when there was a debate here about the decision of the International Court of Justice. Is that right, colleague Kolundji? We are the only party that has said in parliament – do not reject that decision. Am I wrong to say exactly the decision this parliament rejected we call when we state the key argument of our diplomatic success in the fight for the preservation of KIM in Serbia? Like you didn't know what you were doing back then, you don't even know today. As we're right today, we've been right in the past. What's the order of moves that's necessary? Since there are no even conversators, let us conclude that this topic may not even matter to the government. I suggest we make a statement about Mr. Dulic's law, and there are no other laws to answer the question of, say, interest rates. What is the interest rate on the Sava Bridge, Mr. Dulic? What's the interest rate for credit debt from the Japanese state? How are the margins? Which will get those loans back from. What about the EPS in which the average machine is 38 years old and which works thanks to the incredible sacrifice and personal ability of the people who are engaged in the system, but without any support and systematic access to the state itself. We don't even have an energy ministry, and we only owe ourselves one billion dollars per project. Who's going to do the job? The same ones that deal with Galenico, the socialists. We want to change something here or we're going to believe that this can go on forever, that there's going to be some new governments taking on some new loan. He won't. We had our credits written off 10 years ago, two-thirds. These loans left us with a policy that is essentially identical to the one that is now looking for new loans, the one that was not ready to change society, but was ruling it. We disagree on many issues, but I'm sure no one in this room is ready to take a personal commitment on the grounds on which we are expected to support the commitment of our country. Over the next ten years, it is estimated that our growth rate will not exceed 3% on average. How are we going to repay, say, the loan we're taking from 6.5% of the margin plus the three-month euribor that's been moving over the last 12 months from 1 to 1.6. Well, we'll have twice as much interest as the most imaginative estimates of GDP growth in the next ten years. Where are the ones who've financially ruined us in the past today? They're nowhere to be found. They are relieved of the burden that remained on the back of Serbian citizens. This kind of borrowing does not vote to help companies that need to develop. This kind of borrowing is directly condemned to the economic downturn of our society and citizens who are hostages to politics that have not at any time brought out a real account for what they are doing. As a result of this day, pensions will fall in Serbia, the dinar will be weaker, public sector salaries will not be able to pay off, just as it is clear that such downs in our economy are the direct result of that stubborn policy we criticised three, four years ago when we sought essential changes and reforms. Of everything on the agenda, we feel the only obligation in connection with the proposal for a law confirming the guarantee Serbia gives to Japan. It's the only guarantee that provides for a 15-year grace period and does not have an interest rate. Practically, it is reduced to the cost of administrative loan service 0.6%. Everything else is unacceptable to us. New people in the EPS, new people in Galenik, new people in JAT, new people in Serbia's infrastructure, new policy, responsibility for the damage that comes from the old, and then we will be able to talk seriously. As for the construction industry, Mr. Dulic, you know that they've been critical since the beginning, some of your measures aren't without effect, if it hadn't been for the Law on aiding the construction industry in the crisis, you probably wouldn't have those companies that we have, where there are obvious problems still that system can't shut itself down. Funding is being taken to settle obligations towards performers, in order to start some new projects. You can't, Mr. Dulic, build something in a country that knocks itself down at every turn. And that, I think, is very clear to you. Of course, the message to our public, however uninterested it is for our discussions here, for a policy that pays in this way, it is responsible not to the extent that the politicians who have formulated it are responsible, but certainly because it was not ready to distance those policies in a clear way. In front of us are elections, let people think about the consequences of a policy that doesn't even have to declare arguments about borrowing nearly two billion euros per item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66051	Thank you. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66052	Thank you. The agenda that we have here today is an expression of the ultimate urgency of the government because it is about signed government contracts for which you will not get the money if you are not ratified in this home here and the only reason why we are sitting here today and talking about these laws and the reason why you have agreed to endure everything that we are going to say to you in an argument is money and desire to remain in debt for a little while longer. When I say a little more of that in a monetary sense, it's not a little bit or bit, but in a time frame, it's the last chance. According to the agenda you provided us today, which guarantees where you are primary debtors, this government will only cost citizens of Serbia, about a billion and 350m euros at this session. We have converted all currencies to the euro plus a minus 3% difference in course, but today's session and tomorrow may be, tomorrow's work, but these 27 points, debt and agreements, are worth a billion 350m euros. But not all of them are equal weights. Japan's loan will no one dispute, even loans invested in Serbia's Elektroprivreda, I don't suppose it will dispute fully. Many of us wonder why no credit was found for the Anti-Corruption Agency, for the purchase of that famous building owned by this state, sold for a million and 200 thousand euros, and bought it, or intended to buy it for the Anti-Corruption Agency, in which it is now sitting on the lease for 4.5m euros and from co-owners of someone today named Mr. Lemon's wife. Whether we were clear enough in public, so that loan wasn't on the agenda, I don't know, but only that 4.5 million isn't within this billion and 350 million, but there are many loans that open the principle issue. I'm not very interested here right now, although I can't ignore the fact that Galenika is being run by the SPS, that someone else is running JAT, so we're not talking about him, but in principle we have as a state the problem of an unsettled relationship with companies whose founder we are. I apologize to the socialists, they'll be most uncomfortable, but it's a principled example just like Galenika. The one we need to guarantee today, and 70m euros for the refining of the existing short-term commitments, is the company that you have told us in your explanation that it has fallen into a difficult situation, and I quote - by falling the sale of drugs, but by the inability to collect claims that the borrower has towards the major drug dealers, which has compromised the company's ability to service its obligations within the deadline. But when you were asked the question in this same home in 2009, is it true that the deal between Galenika and Velefarm was concluded on December 9th, where Galenika needed Velefarm to sell drugs to a billion and 100m euros, is it true that this contract was concluded the day before the drug purchases? And is it true that the deadline for paying for these drugs is 210 days from the day of delivery? You were also asked a question on March 19th 2009, in good time, why is such a contract concluded, so the one who sets it already has a document in his hand, just asks the government for confirmation and says why is such a contract concluded and how much is the production of Galenika drugs for a billion and 100 million euros? Is it even some agreement that has a real basis in the interest of poor Serbian citizens to supply themselves with cheap drugs or is something else in the middle? That was the question. The answer was signed by the Vice-President, First Deputy Prime Minister, Vice-President, Mr Dacic, who said he was in line with the Drug Act, etc., etc. Neither the Ministry of Trade and Services nor the Ministry of Health have jurisdiction over what is the business policy of Galenika, nor I quote – may have information concerning the contractual relations of independent operators, i.e. they do not know whether the content of the drug deal between A.D. Galenika and A.D. Velefarm is concluded, since there is no legal basis or obligation of the drug manufacturer and the wholesalers to deliver completed contracts to those ministries. If the government does not know that its founder has concluded a billion-and-a-hundred-euro contract the day before the acquisition, under which the payment of drugs should be 210 days long. How does the government's right as the founder of setting up an account for the same "Gallenika" for the citizens of Serbia? Can you be as a government founder only at a time when Galenika has a problem and when you have certain obligations towards suppliers and you are not founders and you have no right as the Government of the Galenika, whose founder you are at the moment when it assumes obligations. It reminds me so much of the sentence I heard yesterday and the day before, where a mayor was defended, when he was accused in the DRI report that he committed a legal offense and I quote him, "And imagine they're asking us to prove that we're not guilty?" "Well that rule you have introduced into this congregation in all procedures, but it bothers you when you as a government should respect it. A level of commitment and responsibilities can be seen very clearly here and cannot be ignored. Do you have a board of directors at Galennica? Does the government have any representatives? Do you have a board of directors? Do they owe you a report on where Galenika is going? What kind of commercial and business contracts does he make? Or is it important that in 570 public enterprises there are 11800 largely party personnel who cost the state annually, according to the budgets of some economists, 155m euros? What are these boards of directors for? What is the cost of spending this money from the budget for their fees if the Ministry of Trade and Health has not been informed what is going on in Galennica and if one such answer is given to an MP who has asked a question from this government, the same government that we are talking to today about this loan? That's what we're saying, now we're telling the story that it's part of the state. The state cannot withdraw from the areas in which it should and must have jurisdiction. Serbia needs Galenika. Galenika is to be preserved, but it should not allow Galenika to come to these branches with this kind of behavior that someone had been publicly warned in 2009 that everything and everything was happening. The state can't get out of the area where it has to take care of the safety of citizens, about the health of citizens, and in one part and the provision of conditions for housing, but also in the existence of a domestic airline, but not by giving JAT credit, we guarantee here, and he spends it on short-term liabilities, and now there are lifeguards who have come back with shortcuts and renting political friendships to money, instead of opening JAT on the stock market and buying people. There is one layer of people in Serbia who legally came to some amount of money and who might buy the shares of such a company. Why should the state of Serbia not have its own company? Why do you throw in a barrel with no bottom and a barrel with a holed bottom? And you know where you throw that money. Here where you warn yourself not to do so you pretend not to hear that you do not understand and say – we have no jurisdiction, no law is allowed, but the law, now I will tell you and which, you say this – constitutional basis that we guarantee for "Galenik" the Republic can guarantee the reconciliation of the debt of a legal person whose founder is under Article 16. Public debt law. Does that member of the 16th give you? The Public Debt Act or some other public debt law obliges you to keep an eye on the ability of the economy and the citizens of Serbia to serve the debts that we are entering because the state does not control the companies in which it is established and has mechanisms and for that it has appointed people and for that we spend money from the budget, I said 155m euros for nearly 12,000 people on board and supervisory boards. You say they got into a bad situation because they didn't get paid by the wholesalers. Whose obligation is it to consider passing a bill on payment deadlines? Who again in Serbia has made such a debt knot that will not be able to untangle easily and which is Damocle's sword hanging from this economy and the state over its head? How is it possible that a public company owes workers such as the Galenics owe wholesalers and that this same public enterprise or local self-government represents itself successful, and this magnificently successful company, and now I'm going to move on to this next loan. So I can't vote for the Galenika guarantee, because you didn't respond in time knowing what was going on at Galenika. We don't care if you hold phone sessions, if you can look at each other, we're interested in saving what the state of Serbia needs, because when we need a heart medicine, so we can't find it, because it can't be imported, they say, it's produced by Galenika, but it's only under the arm. Where are those black ones, burning in the '90s, they show up again, on the street and in the pharmacy. What did you do in the meantime? The survival of the coalition and the exorcision of the mandate to the end. Let the citizens appreciate it, I'm worried about Galenika, who has to survive, Galenika, who has too many employees, but just as I followed the government's staff management site, which has called a competition for 163 newly employed workers, while at the same time saying that every third employee in the administration is doing nothing. So, 163 newly employed people have government records that are publicly available. That's what Galenika did, too. This is no exception. This is a rule of conduct and it has to change. State responsibility towards citizens as founders, especially for these and these enterprises. You even allowed me to make one of these loans, and it's a loan for the City of Belgrade, a bridge and accessways not to detail very technically, to turn the guarantee into a direct loan. We have received the Act of Confirmation of the Guarantee Contract, where, in fact, the reasoning is written – funds will be reserved. No, it will be, the funds for this law will be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, it is not even said, if it falls on the burden of the city's credit war, so don't settle it, the Republic of Serbia's budget has the funds reserved, and will use it to return to guarantee the loan. No, it even says in Article 2 of the guarantee as a primary debtor, meaning the first debtor, and what this is called a guarantee, because this is a loan contract, people. This is what an economics professor would give you and say, "Don't show up for my exam for the next year." And that says, not only in the capacity of the bailiff, irrevocably and unconditionally on the first call, the state has to pay, even at the request of Article 3 for early repayment, not even when the loan, the war, but the early payment, so it says – guarantee, the state of Serbia is irrevocably denying the rights to any objection, and the weight of this paper is 90 plus 70 million in two loans taken for the City of Belgrade. What's interesting, the contract was signed by a secretary, a city that has to pay for illegal teachers, so it hides behind them, and there's actually a lot of illegal spending when it gets coal, so there's no evidence that this coal for schools really was found in a warehouse. There's no paper, because it's done by some agency, but it hides behind a teacher, spends completely illegally and says, "I can do it, I'm kind, normal, it's easy to be gallant when another pays for someone else's expense." This is where he gets into the budget, nice with an alleged guarantee, where we are primary debtors, we have nothing to ask, we have to pay everything right away, and maybe it wouldn't be so controversial, to ask you -- since when has the secretary of state been authorized to sign on behalf of the Republic of Serbia a contract? It's just a matter of ratifying the signed here. What's the matter? A controversial report by the auditor, which in his 2010 report on this loan and the construction of the access bridge, wrote the following: "Respected citizens of Serbia", I have not read anything this interesting long ago, "payments to the consultant from the loan we guarantee", in fact we are primary debtors, meaning, credit debtors, "directly carried out from credit, provided by international organisations, in this case by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Directorate is carrying out a transfer of the account in favour of and burden", just to pass through our accounts. In 2010, Belgrade City Directorate, in the name of the invoices issued to consultants paid by choice, there is no one we know at all why and how she calculated and paid VAT-based liabilities worth 46.7 million dinars, only VAT. What's interesting? You believe, Serbian citizens, that by the Constitution of Serbia, the tender documentation for these services is for the management and coordination of activities and project management only in English. In Serbia, it is only made in English. The report of the hours achieved for consultants does not sign the authorised persons of the Directorate, but does so by the consultant himself. I'm asking Mr. Secretary -- can I raise the cost of my trip, so that one of you here doesn't get me a list of where I'm supposed to sign, to be seen physically by your people so I can raise the cost of coming. It's the only thing I get in the congregation. Where is it that someone alone, can your employees sign themselves overtime? Is there this somewhere in some company in Serbia, on some loan? The consultant is signing himself and it's worth 450,563,557 euros, not 160, not 420. With what you asked the Ministry of Finance to write off your VAT and what they were to calculate, pages 118 to 129 of the undisputed documentation that the state auditor found. The access bridge costs 450m euros spent like this. For guaranteeing you Serbian citizens to get a New Year's present brightly lit at the top without seeing mud down there. I'm sorry, and from the outgoing government, it's a lot. The rest, in the follow-up of the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66053	Thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66054	Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that it is another pointless one, which does not say insanely the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia from some billion and 500m euros in capital. So we don't count interest here, and then they would reach a total debt of about two billion euros, as our expert and MP Dusan Maric calculated. In any case, we are the only party that is absolutely against the EU. In both economic, political and other terms, we are against borrowing especially with the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, because we believe that these two banks, as a kind of EU institution, encourage corruption in the Republic of Serbia. Our next speakers will note this in contrast to other parties that talk about the harmfulness of these loans, but do not say who is the generator of these loans and who is the damage to the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, which is the EU and the IMF. They are the ones who owe this country right through the government of the Republic of Serbia. That should be made clear. The SRS is not afraid and there is no obligation towards the EU or the IMF to make that clear and loud. So it's about one harmful set of laws not only for our economy, but also for our citizens, because these loans will be paid back by our citizens who are filling their budgets with taxes and other excise duties and taxes that will increase in order to restore what will be adopted here, unfortunately, by the ruling majority. First of all, we think it's harmful because it's about the loans that are given, which are taken on the interest rate of interest. We make it loud and clear. We've seen, for example, a loan from Hypo-Alpine-Adria Bank, from Unicredit Bank or from two banks that are failing. That should be made clear, because you know for a fact that Hippo Bank has received huge aid from the Austrian state, about two billion euros, because it has done bad business, because corruption was present in its business. We're in debt now, that is, you're in charge of such a single bank that was deeply compromised and that the Austrian state had to nationalize, for a 7% interest. The margin is about 6.19%, and the eurobor is already at a three-month level of 1%. It's a 7% interest rate, and that should be made clear and clear. It's not possible anywhere, it looks only in Serbia. Another proof of this claim or of the economic claim, the EU banks that are dominant on our financial market exploit the weakness of this government, the weakness of the parties that advocate the EU and impose the biggest interest in Europe, is the credit with the Unicredit Bank that we are considering here within these 13 agenda points. In particular, Unicredit Bank is a bank that announced the release of 5,000 employees. The closure of branches throughout Eastern Europe, but miraculously only in Serbia can the bank lend 7% interest, as is the case with the Austrian Bank. It's a shame. That's inadmissible. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the governor of the National Bank must prevent it. They must once stand in the way of such a without any shame and shame at the behaviour of EU banks with a monopoly that affects the government of the Republic of Serbia, so-called. opposition parties and looks like the governor. As regards the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank, we as the SRS express great concern not only about this loan, but because of the IMF's intention to blackmail the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia to take over the Commercial Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It's clear to all of us. That is why the IMF has cancelled further negotiations to destroy or to take over the only remaining Serbian bank, which is the Commercial Bank. We make it clear and loud that we're against it. We believe that not only the Commercial Bank should remain owned by the Serbian state, Serbian citizens, but we also believe that other banks that are in one illegal, not transparent way and harmful to Serbia's economic interests have passed over to the EU banks holding 70% of the financial market in our country. As for the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank regarding the 160m-euro Sava Bridge, we are not against infrastructure facilities, we are not against building certain objects that benefit all of our citizens, but we are against taking loans from European banks under transparent conditions, because in this loan, in this law that we have before us, we do not know what interest is. That's scandalous. How is that possible? Who's going to determine those interest rates? On the other hand, we find it scandalous that companies from Slovenia, Austria, from the EU are building bridges across the Republic of Serbia, while at the same time our "Contogradation", our "Energoproject" and all other companies, which have been celebrated as prominent construction firms around the world, from Serbia, cannot get the job. It is clear and clear that this is due to the harmful conditions imposed again in these loans by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, as well as the German Development Bank. The banks mentioned in the sub-legislative act, which in fact puts the Law on public procurement of ad act, in fact encourages corruption in the Republic of Serbia, encourages unemployment, encourages the collapse of the construction industry, as discussed by Minister Dulic. He probably has a good intention and wants to encourage it, but it is simply not possible in this relationship of forces where the European Investment Bank, the European Union, is a German development bank that is actually stronger than the Government of the Republic of Serbia, let alone from our businesses. In this sense, we have an absurd situation of employment falling in the construction industry, while companies from Austria, Slovenia, Germany, Italy and Spain are building bridges near Beška, Sava and Željev Bridge in Belgrade. This led us to a devastating political and economic policy, that the EU has no alternative in political and other terms. In that sense, we are watching and voting against this law regarding the Bridge on Ada, because we believe that this bridge was meant to build either the Bridge or the Energy Project or any other Serbian construction firm that is capable and we believe that it is often more capable than companies from Austria, Germany, Spain and other EU countries. After all, see how much work our construction workers in Sochia, Moscow and the Russian Federation market received because they had normal, fair conditions, which they do not have in their homeland. It is a shame and it is an absurdity that has led us to a so-called rational policy that the EU has no alternative. Of course there is, of course, that Serbia should rely on its firms, on its strengths and, of course, on our only sincere friends, which are friends in the Russian Federation. Also, as far as other laws are concerned, they also lead to pointless borrowing, a debt that has long crossed the so-called red line of 45% of gross domestic product. It's clear to everyone. We are not just saying this from the Serbian Radical Party, but they also say independent economists like Mladjan Kovacevic and others, because simply, you know it and you know it and the prime minister knows that GDP is simply not real and that it is oversupply, because it is calculated in current prices and in fact you have one kind of overrated currency, and that is not including one rise in price that is much higher than the relationship between dollars and dinars or between the euro and dinars over which GDP is calculated. In this regard, we believe that the external debt of the Republic of Serbia is public and legal and total, much greater than 45% and is approaching that European standard, so-called European standard of 80% of the public debt. In this sense, it does not need to be very smart to predict what will happen in the future if such harmful laws are adopted which owe to the Republic of Serbia which already has an external debt of 24 billion euros because, you will admit, if the Republic of Serbia does not have the courage to introduce both the governor and the government a kind of economic programme, such as in Iceland where loans have been indexed in foreign currency, then it is clear that there will be a sovereignisation of the debt or a takeover of private debt by the Republic of Serbia, which is now 24 billion euros. What does that mean exactly? It means that the Republic of Serbia will experience the fate of Hungary, which has an external debt, with a population similar to the Republic of Serbia, of $185 billion. This is the future, a European future waiting for the Republic of Serbia and leading to such events as are happening in Romania, where incredible social unrest is precisely because of the European Union and the IMF's demands to cut off health and social benefits. I don't want to remind you here what's going on in Greece, where the debt is about $500 billion, but it's completely clear and completely predictable. In that sense, we believe that the data show that simply this kind of borrowing is harmful because, as you know for sure, the amount of the external debt payment in 2002 was 218m euros, in 2011, it was 4.7 billion euros or 12% of GDP. It's a disaster. So, if we transfer this to concrete data, to a specific situation, that means that our citizens, our businesses and all those living in the Republic of Serbia are working to preserve social peace in Austria, Italy and all those countries where these banks come from, where we are in debt under these 7% interest conditions. That is a fact and that is what the policy has led to that the EU has no alternative. Also, it is unclear, if we are already talking about the amount of external debt that these billions and a half or two billion will enter, as Mr. Maric says, what about the US Steel debts. Prime Minister Cvetkovic did not explain to us whether they exist, if any, whether they were taken over by an American investor who fled the Republic of Serbia or would be paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Why isn't he counting on a debt and debt to the IMF of over one billion dollars? Why aren't all the debts of the local communities accounted for? It's not that local communities are something separate from the Republic of Serbia, is it? It is therefore completely unclear in which it is the percentage between external debt and GDP. We claim that it is much larger than 45% and repeat that it is approaching a shameful European percentage of 80% of GDP. Also, as regards the concrete laws that we are considering today, we again believe that the worst credit is certainly the one of the Unicredit Bank, which, as we said, fires about 5,000 workers in Eastern Europe, but obviously here has the best conditions for business because it is a loan that has a margin of 6.49% and a eurobore at a three-month level of 1%. Who would normally accept that in economic terms? Only the government that executes foreign banks and the EU's tasks. It is clear when such data are looked at and credits paid for by 25,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia are paid. Also, as regards the loan "Hypo Alpha Adria Bank", we repeat, the bank is nationalised by the EU and it is simply not clear how it is possible that the government of the Republic of Serbia also referred to a 6% and 0.5% margin procedure. So again it is a loan from the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which shows a kind of subordination of the government to the EU. As far as the Ada Bridge is concerned, Article 3 says the Republic of Serbia has denied any objection to the lender. What does that mean? This means that it will be very easy or very likely to repeat the situation as at the Bridge in Beški. What happened out there? The Austrian firm first spoke 40m euros and some million euros in value, and now wants 100m euros. These are your friends from the EU. It's actually corruption and it's a kind of thief by the EU, because looking for something like that after the work is done is embarrassing. The government of the Republic of Serbia should show a kind of dignity and national responsibility to prevent such blackmailing demands from Austrian banks. Also, this law is more than ill written in a legal sense. I don't know who wrote those laws, which the Ministry, is it the European Government of the Republic of Serbia's European Office, but we see one absurdity here, and that will tell you every legal person who has read any of the books on the EU, to be mentioned here in Article 6 and in Article 10 of the European Community and the Court of Justice of the European Community. I am responsible for telling you, although I am a member of a party that is completely against the EU, that there is no such thing. There is a Court of Justice of the EU, there is an EU after the Lisbon Treaty, but the European Community simply does not exist and anyone who wrote such a law would have failed an EU law exam. So it's a shame and it shows two facts that it's about type-laws, type-contracts, copying and a kind of discrepancy in the government of the Republic of Serbia or ignorance, non-professionalism, whatever you want, but it's a disgrace to you. It is a shame for a lawyer or any official who has written these laws, because he simply does not know that there is no more the European Community, but the EU since 2009. And that shows how unserious it is so-called. The adoption of European legislation and that it is again a kind of deception of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not only will we not live better, but simply, in a legal sense, it is not right. Also, as regards the law of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development given to the EPS of 45 million, here we see part "C" which states that it will be supported by consultants. What consultants? Where are your consultants from? From the EU, from Serbia? Unfortunately, experience shows us that it is the EU consultants, which will be paid out of loans paid by the Republic of Serbia, and that is the essence of the credit we are considering today and which we have considered these past few years. Also, the consulting services to be provided to these anonymous consultants, which we have been established to suspect coming from the EU, must be at a minimum of 10% of one tranche of credit. One loan tranche under this law is 100,000 euros, so for each loan tranche it will go 10,000 euros so-called. consultants or consultants to be designated by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which will, of course, be from the EU. Of course, there is a margin, there is a eurobor and, of course, we also come up with loans provided by the European Investment Bank to small and medium-sized enterprises. We see here that there is no interest again, again we do not know whether it is fixed or variable interest, again we do not know who will be the mediator, and we say that this intermediary will be the European banks from the EU holding 70% of the financial market and they will make money on these loans. And that is clear, it will earn European banks, European consultants, and this is borrowing under the mask of a pointless dogma that the EU has no alternative. Of course, this is more than harmful and this also shows Article 1 where payment intermediaries are listed, for Article 3 variable or fixed interest and Article 9, which lists some phantomal, other payment costs. Of course, in that loan or framework loan, I don't know what to call it, in both legal and economic terms, you end up with forms that will determine the demands of the Republic of Serbia for a fixed or variable interest, as long as you don't know. So we're in debt for 250m euros, and we don't know what the interest is. It's a shame. It is both in economic and legal terms a shame. So our attitude towards these loans is argumentative, constructive. We're against them. We believe that they are under a kind of pressure from the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the IMF that is trying to buy and take over together with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, our only and last Serbian Bank of the Commercial Bank, and we will be against it in the day of voting, because we believe that further borrowing, especially borrowing under such conditions and in such a difficult economic situation, is harmful to the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66055	Thank you. I give my word to the People's Messenger Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66056	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we could all expect everything, but at one of the last sessions of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly to happen this situation could not have been expected, and this has failed us, too, who expected from the opposition that this government would still enter the elections much more peacefully, but as you can see in today's session, we have a agenda that owes Serbia a billion euros in debt. Today we need to legalize many of the jobs that are started, unfinished, which are risky, suspicious, which have no legal documentation, which some of the credits that are requested, here, when you look at the list of banks from which they are received, there is no bank more significant that no credit has been taken. All the banks are in the crowd, and somebody's got to pay for it. A man who observes Serbia who is over-indebted at this time and who cannot possibly erve out the loans that have been taken into the government's mandate so far, because this government has owed over six billion and 200m euros to the state of Serbia, we today, in a single debate, with a very tight documentation without any documents, need to borrow Serbia with a billion of 350m euros. That's what someone has to pay for. Of course, we've heard in previous discussions that there's a lot of money leaving here for some consultants, some people suspicious. That's hundreds of millions, that we don't have a control mechanism at all. Who are these people, what are they doing, under what conditions, how? We in one piece of paper with one page and ten sentences owe the state hundreds of millions of euros. I know, the ruling coalition is burning under its feet and she wants to start some work for a month, two months, and that's where all the money that's going to be spent on the election campaign, but I need it all here today, the relationship you from the ruling majority to bless and to say that it's all right and that's all right. Where were you waiting for four years of office? You want to type up that last hour of mandate, to start the highway now, find Azerbaijan, find a number and say, "You'll make the highway from Liga to Chačka." You'll make a highway for 300m euros, and a bridge on Sava costs today's bills somewhere below 500m euros. Do you know how many overpass and tunnel mines there are? How do you plan to build it and in what way? Where's your paperwork, where's your argument? Where was the tender? How did you set the prices? The important thing is that you charge the state and you give some companies the means to see that something's going on. This Galenic thing, this is ridiculous. No paperwork, no nothing, 70 million euros. You now, at the end of the term, as Santa Claus, give 10m euros for JAT, bottomless holes, fivem euros for a plane to be fixed in JAT Tech, 35m euros will be given, Dulic is making something there, Duke Steph barracks, some of your companies are making some apartments. We also give about 35m euros there. So, 28m euros, you just don't know who you're giving to, and you don't care. I see you're not even there today, you read that. You will raise your hand for it and bless it all. For the Ada Bridge, you're giving 160m euros to find Gilas, he'll need a man, maybe. What is 160m euros? Imagine a bridge that was about 100m euros in the tender. Is it clear to you that the entire bypass, the ring around Belgrade, whose project has been done, with two bridges in the Danube, near Vinca and this Chinese bridge, which is a total of 500m euros per project documentation? And you for this bridge on Ada so much money is enough, how much the entire bypass, the ring around Belgrade, with two bridges on the Danube. Does anyone have normal in that state, in that government, in the city of Belgrade, so they can call some people and ask what this is about? You see for yourself how the mayor behaves, he's not at all interested in state institutions, what state audit committee. She wrote him something, and he doesn't care at all. He says, "I do what I do, and I don't care what they write." You keep your mouth shut and vote. All of you who vote are responsible for this money. You're responsible. Has anyone filed a report on the Ada Bridge and what actually happened? Recently, passing by, when that 30-centimeter snow fell, I saw a ban on climbing the bridge of the car. It was a sign – it can't. How are you going to do that and what are you doing and what is it going to do? Therefore, these duties that you are currently dealing with and which you will vote on, because you have 126, and that will not be disputed, it will wrap Serbia in black. Someone's gonna have to pay this off. Gentlemen, this money is going to be spent and it's going to be one campaign. Now, in March – April will start some work, some machines, start digging, five or six trucks will drive. You once opened the Belgrade-Cacchak bridge. You opened it twice. What's the problem now? Now you're opening it for the third time. I know it's a campaign, and I know you need money, but this really doesn't make sense. You don't know what interest is, under any circumstances, or who gave it, you don't know anything. The money's gonna go in, the money's gonna be spent, and it's gonna be nothing. Please, how did you get in touch with Azerbaijan? Who set the parameters? How much does that cost? How do you make it? Where was the tender? Where's the paperwork? Did it pass here in parliament, that we discuss it? I remember when we were doing a concession here, you were looking for every page, every word to show up on the Internet, to see and to consider. You asked for all the information, and you didn't want to give it up. You're not interested in any information today. You're making a blank highway and it's going to cost, just like you're trying to build a subway. You signed some kind of contract, and no one knows the mail, where and how. I can't understand that you in the government are so insecure that you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, vote it all out. Tomorrow someone will come and ask you, what were you doing? How did you spend these funds? How did you raise your loans? Who approved them for you? Who are these consultants? How much did the boy who picked up the ropes for the bridge on Savi take? How much did he charge the commission and from where? Please, I repeat, the whole tour ring around Belgrade according to an idea project that was done cost from two bridges to the Danube, 500m euros. You'll have over 500m euros in the Sava Bridge. It's a bottomless hole. Look out, he contained two bridges on the Danube. I can't understand that you are here to appear so insecurely and to work, to build, to raise loans and to place it all on the burden of Serbian citizens and to have no explanation for what you're doing. You give a billion in one day, in one afternoon, in a united debate. In one debate, you owe Serbia 1,350,000 euros, and I don't think a normal man can understand. We should've discussed this for days, let's see, let's look at the paperwork, we'll look into it. Moreover, here it was suggested that a survey committee be formed for that bridge on Savi and that we look at what is happening there. This is where we give the blank 160 million right away. Dulic is given 35m euros for Stepa Stepanovic's settlement. Who do we make apartments for? Where are they and who's buying, like, what kind of banks are people in charge of? You came at the end of the term, at the end of the construction season, in the middle of the winter when the country is in a state of emergency, when it cannot survive, let alone build, and you want to invest so much money, to give some of your companies. Who are your performers? Your companies. Please don't forget Homer's dad, he's a very important factor in Serbia's construction. Don't forget the Trivan family, they're extremely important in construction. What kind of "Energoproject", what "Ratko Mitrovic", what "Planum", what "Rad", what "Comgrap", what "Pim", put it out, what do you need it for? We have everything between us. You gather your money here, give them this money before the elections, give it to them, and then God help you, what they will do, and how they will do. This bridge on the Sava you started to make as a throat in strawberries, with about 100m euros pushing one credit line at a time. Now you're fired, I mean somewhere at 450 - 460m euros and you push on. So I'm really warning you to watch what you're doing. This doesn't make sense. This has crossed all the boundaries of decency. To go to one session that is the last before the elections, which for the other day is being debated with Serbia's mandate, which has reached the red line, with 1,350,000 in debt, it is inconclusive for both the government and the ruling majority and to owe the state and completely destroy the generations that are coming. What are the next governments going to do? How do they pay? How do I get these jobs done? You just don't think about it. You think you last until May 6th, and what happens after that, we don't know. It's important to you to leave until the last day of your term. Every day is important to you. Why? Your companies are working, the funds are being transferred. Don't let me read your list here as much as anyone has a firm. Don't let me tell you right now who's connected to who and how many companies are doing it, and how it's all happening, and who your consultants are, and where they're from, and who's stroking for these loans, and what commissions they take to provide you with credits, etc. We're being blacked out with you, although the days have been numbered, we're starting to count what's small as they say, but it's going to be hard for us. I was surprised that today, during the afternoon, you without any shame, without any shame, come to parliament and bring one page that weighs 1,350,000 euros, which Serbian citizens will have to pay. You will lift the handle, press the buttons, vote and make all of this official. This will be good for your campaign. You'll have as many reservations as you want. Don't ask for the price, just to get your voice given. Where are you going next? Where's Serbia going? Listen, I don't really know if you're thinking about it, but somebody's gonna think about it for sure. You found the government and France and Japan, and one bank and another, Azerbaijan, you dug up everything there is, there's nothing. Look, look, you found them all, and you took them all a little bit, and he says, "Let's push on a bunch, let's finish it off and do it right." And how many of these invested couples are going to hire new people? How much will the export increase? How long will it be to fill the budget from all these credit lines? It's not gonna happen. This is all going to one big company, your company. That's where some of our friends are gonna get richer. How dare you put this bridge on Ada more on the agenda? How are you not ashamed if it was a total loan, they discussed a 100m-euro project, that you are now suddenly raising some 160m-euro loan and pushing it into a pile? You picked up a team that doesn't mean well to Serbia. You picked up some people with a name and name. They got there on that bridge and they're running the main policy. Some of them go with two sticks, they can't come out, and you set them off, they're senile, I don't know what you can do to them. So you forced, gentlemen, the Lala Sekulić who put you in charge, blacked out, produced drugs, supplied all the hospitals, the Clinical Center, and now he's got brain amnesia and forgot everything. Now he's sipping nicely at the pool in his hotel and he's meditated. Whatever you ask him, he has amnesia and can't remember anything. Now, you're the one who shoved him with the shovels of money, and here's where he brought us in and ruined a nice Ivanzica municipality, and you let him be mayor. A minister went to him, promised him and gave him his hands off. Here's where we came from. And this is where you gave Ada your free hands. He does what he wants. He's not interested in the auditor, he's not interested in the state institutions, and you're voting here and you're raising your hand and you're verifying everything that's going on there. Therefore, this is a difficult situation for Serbia, and I think, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, so that you should not vote this vote and accept it in the last session of the Serbian Parliament. You should not put a noose around the neck of the Serbian people and future governments in a session that is last before the election is called and that you put Serbia in so much debt, that someone tomorrow will not know what they will do with themselves, and you will give "befel" to all these malversions that are foreseen here and that have appeared. You can't spend the Russian loan we got because you don't give projects to run the State Institute of the CIP, but you gave Rosic, your member, who has two, three employees and who project everything for the Railway. He can't design it, they're all backgrounds in the CIP. Just let it be yours from the environment, from some party officials and then push, swing, but Serbia is not well written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66057	Thank you. Before I give my word to the president of the ZES parliamentary group, People's MP Nadia Kolundji, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I would like to inform you that a one-hour break, which we have each day, has already been held today from 11.00 to 12.00 hours, and the rest of the working day continues, and we will be working after 18.00 hours, if it requires a pace of debate. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66058	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a ratification of financial arrangements and what may be important to note, primarily because of the citizens of Serbia and because of some attempts here to imagine that the Serbian Parliament is using the final hour in order to in the last session, in some strange way, to charge Serbia with the money that now appears as a task. The truth is, it is the fact that all these arrangements, that the government signed these arrangements, some 2010, the largest number in 2011, that most of these arrangements are actually guarantees from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that loans or social enterprises or the city or other legal persons, are not the Republic of Serbia that is in charge of all these funds. What is also important to note, all these funds are shown in the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget. So it's not about some new money that's not being seen in the budget right now, and these ratifications are going to come up as some new deficits. What is also important to me, of course, is that it is perfectly understandable to be careful about borrowing and I think that it is a matter of responsibility for anyone who reaches for a loan to think carefully about what he is taking the loan for and whether this loan brings benefits to the citizens in the long run. In that sense, I would always be against being in charge of consumption, and that is why it is particularly important to note what these loans and these financial arrangements are, because they are not intended for consumption, are intended, above all, to infrastructure projects and I don't think there is any doubt, that it is absolutely pointless to accuse the parties who are going to vote for these financial arrangements, that they are doing it because of the elections that are going to take place in two, three months, because they are taking money to show how they are doing something. That's just impossible. In two, three months, nothing will happen except the preparation of documentation for all these projects. Most, some projects are already in the realization phase, such as the Adi bridge and the arrangement that is now being made to build infrastructure for that bridge will be something that will continue to work. I think it's too political to say that these arrangements have something to do with the election that's going to take place in two months. They cannot be seen at all, as far as citizens are concerned, they will be seen in the next not only years, but in the next decades, because they will allow citizens to get some very important infrastructure projects. Just for a little while, for the sake of the citizens, I'm going to say what this funding is for, saying again, that these contracts have been signed over the past year, and that it's absolutely not about trying to get something through the National Assembly in a hurry at the last minute. Most of these contracts are in the National Assembly waiting for ratification. So one of these arrangements is intended for a project to build a defunct facility for the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant, which is financed by the Japanese International Co-operation Agency. So, the ecological and law strategy that we have adopted provides for a reduction in air pollution due to the operation of power plants, and these are the funds that are designed to improve the "Nikola Tesla" power plant in a technological way to reduce pollution. So, another arrangement is related, I have already mentioned it for the end of the bridge on Ada, and I think the citizens of Belgrade know best how much that bridge means to them and that anyone who tries to derail or present that bridge as a bad project actually has the biggest enemies in Belgrade's citizens, who are not only satisfied that after 40 years, Belgrade has received a bridge, they are satisfied and that it will allow Belgrade, as a city, to function much simpler, first of all bearing in mind citizens. What is also one of these arrangements is, that was the word and I don't think it should be repeated, it's an arrangement to build residential and business facilities at the site of the "Stepa Stepanovic" barracks. We know how much Belgrade needs housing, or how many citizens in Belgrade have unresolved housing issues. We know that at a time of financial crisis, at a time when the economic crisis is this strong, as it is now, it is difficult for those citizens whose dwellings are most needed to cope alone with the circumstances and to provide themselves with loans that will reach their own living space and I think it is the responsibility of the state to show understanding for such citizens on the one hand. On the other hand, of course, this project has another kind of effect, which is an incentive for domestic construction operations. We've all heard a thousand times and we've heard ourselves repeat that the construction operation is in crisis and that if the state doesn't help this crisis get through, that it threatens the entire sector to collapse completely and that thousands of people are out of work, without any chance of getting a later job, because it's hard to imagine that if the whole system collapses we can expect within a short time to raise some new construction firm. One of these financial arrangements is a project that promotes education and vocational training. Thus, the establishment of a centre of excellence in priority and research areas, the construction of a bio-medical research centre in Belgrade, the construction and equipment of a agricultural bio-technical centre in Novi Sad, the construction of a nano-science centre and new materials in Belgrade, the formation of a scientific and technological park in Nis, the construction of apartments for renting young researchers in Belgrade, Kragujevac and Novi Sad, and financing and technical support. So this is also, in my opinion, one of the important evidence that all these financial arrangements had a development component, first of all, in mind that nothing is instantaneous consumption, that all of what is foreseen by these arrangements is actually the need to build a basis for repairing the country's infrastructure. So one of these financial arrangements is also an arrangement for projects to finance small and medium-sized enterprises. Again, all those who believe that Serbia's economy can develop, primarily by developing the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, know that in these times and after all that Serbia has gone through and how its economy fell apart in the 1990s, and then in 2000, through the privatisation process, changing its structure, losing previously all markets, not creating a possibility for such a short period of time to create some new markets. So, it shows whether the government has a responsibility or has no responsibility just by measuring whether it is ready to help this sector, primarily by allowing it to survive in these times, but also to step up and further develop, it actually creates a presumption of what is the basic economy of Serbia, which is precisely small and medium-sized enterprises. I'm going to mention another one of these financial arrangements. He refers to the construction of Corridor 11, so on the construction of the Ljig-Boljkovci road. It's about building 40 kilometers of roadways, and I think now all those who feel that this is unnecessary actually have a problem with citizens living in those areas who will be better connected this time, that this relationship is a transit connection through Serbia and I think they need to explain to them why they don't think something like this should be built. So, what is important for us and what we will vote for these arrangements, although every time we need to be in charge, we really need to seriously discuss whether these borrowings are long-term in the interests of Serbian citizens. So does it bring them better living conditions in the future, whether it brings them some infrastructure problems they have for decades, and always, if these funds are meant for such projects, I think that regardless of the political differences, we can agree that this type of borrowing makes full sense then. I believe that if we were to overcome, let me say, the need for a party to be accounted for in order for most of these projects to be supported by all MPs, because I think all MPs think these projects should be done. Maybe someone thinks there's some other means, but it would be good if we all found out what the funds are. But what is, I repeat, crucially, this is about projects for the future and no stories about how these are preparations for some election campaigns really don't stand, because today the means that we ratify them will have not only the future government but also the governments that are elected after that government after the four-year term. So these are long-term projects and they provide every government with infrastructure things that are indisputable from the interest of the country's citizens' lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66059	Twelve minutes and 30 seconds used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic has been reported. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66060	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Our people would say, if a goat lies, the horn doesn't lie. If you have a agenda, then you will see that out of 13 projects on borrowing or guarantees, 11 of them from 2012, only 2 about Galenica, and on the promotion of the institutions of the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia and of the European Investment Bank carry the date of one 27 December 2011 and the second project carries the date of 26 December 2011. All of them, within a very short period from the government, reached the Assembly and all of them from 2012, and the bridge on Ada was signed as a contract on 25 January 2012. Personally, an absolutely unaccessible political consideration of this topic, and I have tried to speak in principle about the problems of funding some companies where the state as the founder is not acting responsibly enough, and I do not accept that these are the old loans that have been waiting, the old ratifications. Once again, the guarantee where you are the primary debtor, where the borrower is not asked to carry out the obligation for three days at all, but directly from you, cannot be treated differently than with a loan where it is written, and no one has said that it does not write, rather it says that funds are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget and that this guarantee will not have the property of the guarantee, but loans that will be classicd out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66061	The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66062	I just want to say that these arrangements, regardless of when the government referred us to the congregation procedure. Most of these arrangements have been made before. So that's all I wanted to mention. So, if they weren't, the bridge on Ada was built. So this whole arrangement is just a continuation of one arrangement that's been made a long time ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66063	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups coming forward for a word in this part of the session? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a joint principled and uniform search, application for a word in writing. With the order of MPs, the SPS-JS parliamentary group, the LDP group, the DSS parliamentary group, the NS parliamentary group, the SRS parliamentary group and the MEP group for European Serbia have submitted. We move to a section of the session, where the People's MPs are given the order in which they apply for a word in the joint principle and uniform Search on the drafts of the Law from points 1 to 13 of the agenda. The first reported MP, Milisav Petronijevic, followed by MP Bojan Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66064	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS-JS Group considers these 13 proposals of the Law on the granting of a guarantee of borrowing, very sensitive and serious issues. Given the major global economic crisis, given that much more developed countries are the problem of responsibilities in much more developed countries than Serbia, given the fear and fear of Serbian citizens not to experience Serbia in the same way and of course, bearing in mind, and this topic is subject to the spread of fear and I believe that it is the government's obligation to detail the seriousness and sensitivity of the issues, explain in detail and explain what it is that Serbian citizens know exactly everything. Considering how we think that giving a guarantee is the obligation of the lender of the state to settle obligations on behalf of the borrower, if he does not settle the debt. We believe, our parliamentary group, when considering the bill's proposals regarding this, that it's important to keep two things in mind. First, what we are in debt for, what the funds are taken for, whether they are intended for energy, agriculture, whether they are aimed for Serbia's economic development, which we support or are intended for consumption, which we do not support. And another question that we think is important, whether the state when it gives a guarantee, whether it has guarantees that the borrower will repay that debt. In that case, Serbian citizens would not have the obligation to pay the debt. So, will the generations that come inherit the debts, or what we stand for, will inherit the new value that remains in Serbia. When all of this comes to mind, our authorised representative of the group at the beginning of the debate stated the position of the parliamentary group, and we will support the bill. Here were the words in the explanation of the minister, when it comes to "Stepa Stepanovic", other MPs, about other projects, and I would like to conduct two more loans through this story, whether these are loans that mean economic development, investment in the future, whether they bring new value, whether they employ people or it is consumption and whether they are companies that can guarantee, that the loan will return. In short, our authorised representative at the beginning of the debate gave a more detailed explanation today, for what we believe should be approved, i.e. a guarantee for the Galenika loan, looking at it from two angles. One, from an economic angle, because it's a company that will pay off its own loans and liabilities, because it's a company that's got into one situation, a wheel, where those they deliver drugs to don't pay, and those who buy from wholesales don't pay, so that debt is 100 and change millions of euros, and now it's down to 85. Of course, it is difficult to reconcile all obligations. If it were so realized, then there would be no need for this loan. Another reason our representative spoke of is that Serbia's strategic interest, to preserve one such "Galenika", which is a large, prestigious drug manufacturer, and Serbia's great and strategic interest is that it has such a single pharmaceutical industry. What I wanted to say briefly is two companies that are on the loan list, which have not been spoken of today, and I will make sure that in the shortest possible terms. One is the loan taken by JAT Technics Belgrade, worth fivem euros for which a state guarantee is sought. JAT Tech is a very successful firm, it is thanks to the ability of the management body today to record excellent business results. JAT Technology has entered an ambitious project to expand its performance, has previously mastered all the jobs related to Boing 737 and is now ahead of a big job to take over the maintenance of er bass 320. And that's a huge job. In order to do such a thing, the existing large hangar needs to be expanded, in order to receive those planes and to be able to maintain them in addition to training, conditions are created for such aircraft to be served, or maintained, etc. In addition to the job of Boing 737 and Er bass 320, it will be the leading firm in this region for the area, and if it were successful, it shows that JAT Technika, when it was singled out of JAT, worked 100% for JAT, and 80% of the wages were in revenue. Today JAT Tech works 50% for JAT, and 50% for European companies, while regular wage participation is 40%. This project, when it is finished, means that JAT Tech will be a regional leader in this business and 80% will work for European companies. So the guarantee is that the state invests in a successful company, invests in expanding business and guarantees the state that the company will pay back that money. So, it is a guarantee to the state that it invests in a successful company, invests in expanding business, and guarantees it to the state that the company will pay back that money. Secondly, where I want to stay for a while, it's a company called "Employment Company and Kostolac Kostolac Kostolac". It's a coal production and energy production company. We are all witnessing the previous days when Serbia was struck by such a storm, such conditions that exactly the company's ability, vitality, of course, great sacrifice of workers alongside the "Colubara" and "Tent", have managed to preserve Serbia's energy system and allow Serbia to go through these most difficult conditions. Why is money used here? Here, money is borrowed for the revitalisation project of two existing B1 and B2 blocks of 350 megawatts and for the decapitation project for two existing blocks, also B1 and B2 of 350 megawatts. This second part is something like it or the same thing, which is what Tesla does in Obrenovac. By the way, all of this is part of a comprehensive project of development of Kostolc, which includes a third part, which is an increase in the capacity of the surface digging wood to 12 million tonnes a year with the construction of a new block B3. Just a few notes. So this is phase one, it's about revitalizing two blocks of existing and absentia. What's important to point out? By revitalizing these two blocks, on the one hand, the life of the power plant is extended for 20 years, but they also get new megawatts. How? By the fact that the existing ones could never be used in maximum capacity. Their revitalisation increases, i.e. the possibility of full capacity being exploited. They're your new megawatts. When it turns into money, it is a net income of around 20m euros for the company Kostolac, which is otherwise a successful company, which is a positive business. So, investment in energy is a significant area, creating a new value, ensuring stability of the energy system, but also employment. How? In addition to revitalisation, this means investing in railway infrastructure, in ports, roads that will benefit. All of this to be done, which is what the contract envisions, will include Serbian labour, Serbian equipment at least 47%. In other loans, these conditions couldn't be set up. How much will the Serbian economy participate in this, how much will the Serbian workforce do? When you look at it, it might be small, but it's 150m euros invested in it. To build an electrical equipment in Serbia, someone has to get a job, someone has to work. So it's given that it's a new value, and it's not consumption. Otherwise, Europe does not give money for such loans, for such a type of credit it only gives for its members, so another confirmation that the loan taken for thermal power plants is a loan that is invested in development, a future that will bring new value and employ new people. That's why I think this example should be highlighted and supported by the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66065	Thirteen minutes used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Bojan Djuric has the word, followed by MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66066	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I have a few sentences to look back on what Mrs Colundji was talking about here. In this term and in previous mandates, especially in some of the government's crisis situations, as it is today, there have been all kinds of speeches by the ruling coalition, but so pointless, rude, cowardly in the presentation of the heads of parliament, I can't remember that such a thing happened, at least not in this mandate. Anyway, I wouldn't normally do that, but given the way Mrs. Kolundji used to say it, which then came out of the O.R., I just kind of have to answer it. I have a very specific offer for Mrs. Kolundji, if she listens to this somewhere in the halls or in the cabinets of this building. Does she accept such an offer? If any of the machines appear during this election campaign, let's say the so-called Corridor 11 and if any of these works appear from the Democratic Party or from the ruling coalition, calling for, among other things, this loan from Azerbaijan that we are taking today, it will withdraw from the electoral list and withdraw from politics. I think it's a fair offer. If that doesn't happen, then we'll all be idiots here, all of us talking about the ruling coalition through these loans and guarantees of 1.4 billion euros plus interest, it's over two billion euros, that we're malicious, that we're rude, that we're trying to deny the right to treat citizens if we ask why Galenika got into this kind of trouble, that we're anti-ecology, because the state is trying to be in charge of some detour process, etc. That we are against JAT technique, as Mr Petronijevic said, as a very successful company today, we need to take credit to win the technology process of maintaining er-basa A320. You know what, A320 is no technological miracle. It's a plane that's been manufactured. It's been commercially used for 20 years. Since I see you've probably slept through those 20 years, as well as 20 years of collapse of JAT-A, Colubare, Nicole Tesla, Bones and everything else, I just have to remind you of that. Of course no one reasonable has any objection to JAT's technique being broken, for example. If you're already talking about this fantastic JAT technique statistic, how much less than a few years ago today, then be honest and tell us how many JAT planes are in use today and how many years ago. This decline in maintenance or maintenance of JAT aircraft in JAT's overall JAT technology services is partly due to this. In recent days, when the mayor of Jagodina took 250 of his fellow citizens to visit Vienna and there are serious problems in functioning, including JAT Ervis. Finally, if we're talking about a JAT loan, we also gave one guarantee a few months ago. At the end of 2010, if I'm not mistaken, there was a guarantee for a JAT of nearly 52m euros. JAT took 52m euros and none of the loans guaranteed by Serbian citizens spent on what the loan was taken. So this is another example of how the Serbian Parliament is lying here, as the MPs lie. That's what JAT management admits. The company, which the State Audit Institute found only in 2010 to behave in a criminal manner and to operate in a criminal manner. You know, there are problems in JAT Erviz even in the process of signing up for the daily market. The daily market is not paid in accordance with the law. That's what the State Auditor said in the 2010 report. This is not the only problem in Serbian public enterprises or action societies that are under the full or majority control of the state. The public company "The Ways of Serbia", a monopolies who is on the way to advertising in almost all domestic media and in different ways, has not paid VAT for a whole number of years. So you have a state-owned company, a public company that doesn't pay VAT on tolls and no one can do anything about it. I'm not saying it's your party's fault. Although I see that the parties, first of all the SPS, have defined themselves to defend mostly those loans and guarantees that are carried out in companies for which their personnel are in charge. I think that's how you're wrong. You are not responsible for all the problems that have arisen in the business of these companies. It is primarily responsible for the government which is the formal owner of these companies and which is the most responsible for their functioning. As far as this claim is concerned, I think Mrs Kolundzija once said that because we criticise the government that is in debt before the elections itself, we will have the biggest enemies in the citizens of Belgrade or the citizens of Serbia who see that money going to phenomenal construction, construction, infrastructure projects. I must say, I am sorry that such ambition is primarily DS as the ruling party. I don't think it's good for them if they have the ambition to lead the next government or participate in the next government, to leave the state in this state. These loans are going to come in real quick. And the shorter those periods that are defined as grace periods when we take these loans. It's already 12, 18 today, 24 months max. No statement by the ruling coalition gave us answers to a key question -- which is why we are in charge of such a frightening interest. For most credits, interest rates are frightening, they are almost at the level of those fantastic fraud percentages given to citizens as savings interest by Dafiment, the Jugoscank Bank. You are in charge of Galenika for 70m euros, and interest will be paid several years from over 7.2-7.3%. Do you understand what kind of interest it is for a company that operates on a domestic market whose vast majority of customers from the domestic market, that is primarily a state directly or indirectly for its health system, which will charge its services, or its goods in dinars, and then try to service a loan for which the interest is in euro 7.2 or 7.3%? What company can handle that? Mr. Petronievich, you were at least honest. At least you're the only one here who's actually said what's the essential reason for the collapse, the near collapse, the Galenics, and that's the fact that Galenics almost nobody pays, and that the biggest debtor in that system is actually the state, or the state fund. We here in October and November last year tried to start a debate on what would happen to 330m euros? I think that amount was at that point the current debt that exists from the Republic Health System towards hospitals, health homes, major drugstores and the largest drug manufacturers. What happened in the meantime? We had a proposal from Minister Stankovic who suggested that the debt be cancelled. You know, the write-off of that debt means the total collapse of Galenika and all the others in that chain. We had a second proposal from the government a few weeks ago, Minister Ljajic, that workers whose employers did not pay contributions were simply certified by the book. When you verify the book, and no contribution has been paid to the worker, then the Republic Health Insurance Fund for the treatment of that worker who appears in front of the doctor or uses some medications cannot pay the money to the drug supplier, home to health care, doctors, all who are involved in that chain. So you can hold the system for two, three or six months, but after a year, a year and a half, you come into a situation to borrow 70m euros at 7.3% interest. I think we have easily crossed a few sentences that Mr. Kasalovic said. Now for the first time I hear that Galenika seems to have some short-term loans that pay at an interest rate of 30-35, and I think at one point you said 40%. I'm sorry, then I guess there's some responsibility to whoever ran that company and who's in charge of it? Is there an interest rate of 40% on the market elsewhere in this country? I suppose it's on dinar obligations, but anyway, it's huge even though it's in dinars. Is there a responsibility? Did the loan or guarantee for this Galenika loan even exist a few months ago? Here, on December 28th and 29th, there was talk all day about how perhaps the point of granting guarantees for the Galenika loan would be placed on the agenda. That didn't happen obviously because of some problems in the ruling coalition. How much was only the amount of money paid on these 40 percent loans, say, from December 29th to the day the money was laid down on this loan? Who's responsible for this? For weeks, it was a public hoax, and Mrs. Kolundzhia took part in it. Insinuating the majority, insinuating 126 MPs at all costs just to keep the mandate up until the end and to allegedly adopt some European laws. Are these European laws? Of course, there are key policy issues that are lagging behind even these Azerbaijani ones today. Some media in the region, our media, of course, didn't do it, they posted some footage of a protest yesterday in the capital of Azerbaijan about the claims... In fact, Azerbaijan claims that Armenia carried out in the Nagorno-Karabah genocide area during the 1990s. The meeting was also attended by the president, a great friend of our Minister Jeremic, a great friend of this state, a man whose father's monument is adorned by the Tasmajdan Park. Do you know what kind of transparency was at that rally – that genocide in Nagorno-Karabah, that genocide in Srebrenica, that genocide that happens today in Syria should never happen again. Are you going to protest against Aliev now because he claims what is said in the ruling of international courts, or in the European Parliament resolution, that genocide happened in Srebrenica? No, that's for internal political accounts, and when the money comes, 300 million, 500 million at a favourable interest, then whoever gives that loan can talk, and it won't bother anyone here. That's the kind of hypocrisy you've been talking about for weeks. Well, there are other documents. There's also that IMF report from their mission. He has one footnote, says it is recommendations, official recommendations from the mission that was in Serbia from February 2nd to 9th this year. Since we discussed a few days ago with the prime minister who says that the arrangement with the IMF has not been suspended and has not failed, here's to quote - the completion of the first review of the stand-by arrangement has been delayed because the 2012 budget is not in line with the agreed fiscal rules. When Mrs. Kolundzija says that all the funds for these loans are foreseen in the budget, she forgets that the budget has an income side, not only the spending side, but because, according to all the projections of both the IMF and the fiscal council and the National Bank, finally and the Government itself, the economic activity in Serbia in 2012 will be less than planned, then the revenues will be lower, and the deficit will be higher, so it will be harder to service these loans in the coming years, and most of them under completely unreasonable conditions you take or offer to the citizens. It's hard to find the right word for what the government is trying to do with this kind of borrowing. I think the closest word is "bagging." It is now a popular expression in Croatia, for indictments related to HDZ financing, said that the former customs director was some sort of bag that goes from a public enterprise, and is trying to set up a racket for the political party. I'm not saying that you're doing this, you're going from financials to financials, from creditors to creditors, from bank to bank, from country to country, and you're trying to get under any conditions that are possible to raise as much funds as it will be enough for you to create in the next two or three months until election day, or in Serbia everything is fine, then you're inventing both Corridor 11 and those machines that will appear, which, at one point, was obviously a key argument for these sessions to ever be. Mr. Mr. Mr. Dulic, they will be on these construction sites, they are gone today in this House and will somehow endure until 29 April or 6 May, but my question is not that, what are we going to do on 7 May, no matter who forms the next government, regardless of the pre-election promise, regardless of 1244 or 1389? The key numbers in Serbia are 111, because so much is the course of the euro, 24 or 25, because unemployment is so much, etc. Serbia today does not live in the circumstances it lived in the 1990s, although the degree of media control is much sharper and much larger than it was at the time of Slobodan Milosevic. Today, however, you cannot sell fog to Serbian citizens in such a cheap way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66067	Thank you. The MP's time has been used. The People's Messenger Đorđe Milicevic has the word, and after him is the Messenger Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66068	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning I must say that I would agree with Mr. Petronivic's findings. So borrowing is a very sensitive issue and it is very important that the government provides clear guarantees during the economic crisis. Of course, in the Republic Parliament, every legislative proposal is possible to politicise ahead of the elections and in this way try to collect political points, but I think we should work here, to speak in a concrete way about what is the topic of today's agenda, which is the point of the agenda, and to lead the election campaign when the time comes. We are facing 13 extremely important legislative proposals in the first joint debate, not reducing the importance of any of the proposed legislative proposals, but because of the time I have at my disposal, I will put the accent in just a few sentences on two legislative proposals. First of all, I would like to say once again that the SPS-JS parliamentary club will support the 70m-euro guarantees needed to continue production in Galencia. At this point, the priority of the priority seems to me right now to be that Serbia should not lose its medicine. We believe that Galenika should be supported because it is the only domestic pharmaceutical company that was founded in 1945 and produces over 171 medicines and has over 2,600 employees. And Serbia, we are convinced, has potential and needs to develop its own pharmaceutical industry. First of all, one data, a drug produced in Serbia, some statistics say up to 150% is cheaper than the import. Galenika covers 20% of the market, and according to the capacity it has, it could certainly be up to 50%. Under the economic crisis, Galenika has made one of the largest factories in the region an investment of 55m euros, funded by Galenika from its own sources and credit lines. It is about an investment that has been made according to the necessary world standards and which has quadrupled the capacities of Galenika. Minister Stankovic is not present today, unfortunately, but said a few days ago that he would return the money and guarantee we are talking about by 2018, as well as that "Gallenika" respected an agreement signed last year with the government of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that Galenika will solve the problems it is in today, because it is in the interests of both Serbia and the interests of Serbian citizens. We don't mind, we need to talk about problems, about consequences. Whoever has the responsibility and if he has the responsibility, there are the authorities, the competent institutions, they are the ones they need to do and make a statement and say whether there is someone else's responsibility. But, you know what, you should talk the right way and about the cause. We need to see what the general interest is right now. Why are there problems in Galennica? There was little talk about it. It's true, one of the reasons is the fall in drug sales, but also the debt of a major drugstore. "Gallenika" appeared to me, says Mr. Stankovic in a statement I could read a few days ago, for a short time even 22 new drugs, 2,500 medicines for heart patients. So she made the cure, she placed it on the market, but she couldn't charge it. For this story, two indicators are very important – how many large drugstores at the moment owe "Galenica" to how much the Republic Health Insurance Fund owes to "Gallenika". It is true that the fund does not have a contract with Galenika, but it deals the necessary prescription drugs with pharmacy institutions, and as you heard, it was only paid in June of last year, when it comes to debt. Of course, we don't condemn the fund either, because the fund's budget is insufficient. He's about 200 billion dinars. And yes, 50% goes to health care employees' salaries, medicines, the sanity of 55 billion dinars, and there are other costs for health care institutions. Very briefly, when it comes to the second legislative proposal, which I wanted to talk about a few sentences. After signing a contract on the implementation of the first phase package for the revitalisation of the Kostolac B thermal power plant, worth $344.63m. The papers begin immediately, which is very important. The agreement, as it were said, envisions 53% of the total project's deliveries of the Chinese foreign project, while 47% of the total value works, so $161.44m would be realised by the engagement of Serbian companies, which is also of paramount importance. It was also said what was envisaged and what envisions the completion of the project. And by the way, what I want to point out in particular is that the cost of the electric system, according to some indicators, has delivered as much as 6.2 billion kilowatts of electricity, and the Kopa has been produced about 9.2 million tons of coal. Over the past year, a net profit of about 3.2 billion dinars and a basic revenue of 15.4 billion dinars has been achieved in nine months over the past year. We believe that they should be supported in order to be even more successful and, of course, to invest in energy and thus create the stability of the electricity system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66069	Thank you. This also used the time of the SPS-JS parliamentary group. The word comes from MP Milan Lapčević, and after that, MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66070	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, is indeed very strange, not to say that it is almost not recorded in practice that in the last session of one session, the outgoing government is pushing dozens of laws in which Serbia is additionally in charge of the whole, I calculated precisely, 1.45 billion euros. So, in addition to the 5.7 billion euros she owed us since 2008, today, through this debate, and in some day and through the vote, this parliament, or the ruling majority, will plead and Serbia will be additionally in debt for almost a billion euros or a total of over 7.1 billion euros. Economists, counting and analysing how much Serbia owed in the previous years and how the ruling coalition functioned, calculated that the government of Mirko Cvetkovic was owed on average every day for 4.7m euros, or 55m euros per second, which is simply an amazing figure. The structure of the borrowing was different, but also said analysts who certainly have insight into the structure of the duties of the cabinets of Mirko Cvetkovic say that these loans were mostly spent on public spending, on the budget minus, so over 600 billion dinars went to public sector salaries, on pensions of more than 900 billion dinars, on subsidies of 180, on interest rates 10 etc., and for complete projects not spent a third of the funds, namely barely about 50 billion dinars or 500 million euros were taken credit for the construction of Corridor 10. Taking into account that Serbia's external debt was 8.7 billion euros in 2008 and that the public debt was reduced by 2m euros a day or 24 euros per second, a clear picture of what kind of ruling coalition we have in the last four years and how much this is a harmful and consumer government. If we look at the structure of these debts, i.e. these new loans that are proposed at today's session, we have various loans that can be said that some really have justifications, such as loans to the Japanese Foreign Investments Agency at the Nikola Tesla Termo Power Plant, and infrastructure projects concerning small hydropower plants and the construction of a new facility in Kostolc B, but we really cannot ignore the fact that there is a lot of talk here about the need for Serbian citizens to extract additional funds from their and such state budgets to "Gallenika" to take a 70m-euro loan at an incredible interest rate of 7% plus euro. Given that almost all banks in Serbia are mostly foreign, we really do not see any single reason that any bank invests in the business of Serbia and lends loans to companies to encourage their production or any new product, if they can already give the state at huge interest or buy from that same state bonds also under huge interest, therefore everything is made as a well-imagined mechanism in which foreign banks will place money to the state, to take huge profits from it and to destroy domestic economy, and thus the overall financial situation in this country. We also heard arguments from my predecessors why it is necessary to help Galenika. No one contests the fact that Galenika needs as a domestic pharmaceutical company to survive, that we should have such a company that will produce domestic drugs, because it is a very lucrative and very important job for this country to have its own facilities for the production of drugs, not to be dependent on any other company or any private company. We really can't understand that these are the only arguments that say the state should guarantee a 70m-euro loan for this company, and no one wants to say that this company has come into a position that has to be in debt for this amount of credit, in order to survive a difficult crisis period. There were arguments – they did not pay for wholesale drugs, the growth of courses, and I do not know what not, and no one mentioned what is really a fact, and these are huge embezzlements in Galenika, which have since 2008, since the appointment of the new director, until last year when the government and the ruling majority were no longer able to rush into the enormous robbery of Galenika, but had to implement temporary measures and to replace the previous director, i.e. to set up a new management. It is said that in 2010 alone, the salary fund rose from 2.4 billion dinars in Galenica to 3.6 billion. It clearly says that by 50%, only in one year the salary fund has increased. Can you imagine how many people were admitted there, or how much wages were raised, very possibly unwarranted, if companies do not operate positively – how is it possible to increase the payment fund? How can huge money be spent on expensive furniture, on expensive cars, on huge percentages to private wholesales and large companies dealing with the same state-owned drug import company, for drug sales, etc? Hundreds of party personnel have entered the Galenika, received an official car and has been sent across Serbia to make a party campaign, based on the cost of the state and the Galenika, which we now need to save. It's an accident. It's an SPS. It is said that the director was appointed a senior SPS official in 2008, that the board also holds a chairman from the SPS and another member. Of course, there are others who do not amnest their minority, as members of the board of directors, and there are representatives from the DS and representatives from G17 plus. There's also a representative on the board of directors and the president of a union, who says he didn't have the authority and didn't know what was going on at Galenica, which we don't understand. Also, one of the guarantees Serbia will give today is a guarantee for building apartments at a 35m-euro "Stepa Stepanovic". In addition to the loans we take from Japan, whose interest rate is 0.6% a year or from the Chinese for the revitalisation of "Kostolac B" which is, in principle, about 3%, all other loans range between 6% and 7% interest plus euribor. These are indeed dragon interest, green interest, which I do not see a single resonance, nor anyone here, nor a representative, Minister Dulic, has dealt with in any sentence, what is the reason and what is the logic that Serbia is in charge of such enormous green interest? The financing of apartments in the "Stepa Stepanovic" barracks is one of these loans that we will take. I'll remind you it's a project called the so-called project. A phenomenally designed project by Minister Dulic to rescue Serbia's construction industry in times of economic crisis. The law was passed by an emergency procedure in 2010, somewhere in mid-2010, and to this end more than 400m euros were spent, to this day, and it is said that these jobs will continue with so-called ". aiding the construction industry in Serbia and in 2012 Why it will continue. A pre-election campaign of ruling parties needs to be financed. To dozens and hundreds of construction projects throughout Serbia were implemented under this law, by the so-called "Such". help the Serbian construction industry. Who could have gotten these jobs under this law? They could only get qualified companies. In translation, this qualified means similar companies of party powers from the top of the DS, but of course other ruling parties. How much did they cost and what kind of projects they were, how much they cost, and did they really follow the market value? I doubt it. For dozens of them I know by heart, which were carried out both in Nis and in surrounding cities where the figures were so great that they were in your head. By passing this law which is absolutely anti-constitutional, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling coalition suspended the Law on Public Procurement and on a small door, guessing directly, which would have been said to be people's -- eyes in the eyes, with similar performers and similar firms, has fuelled corruption in Serbia, and no wonder Serbia has fallen to an 85-seat corruption index in the world in recent years. Taking into account all that the predecessors have said and what analysts have calculated, that Serbia is already a long-indebted country, that it has crossed the magical limit of 45% of GDP or 80% of the budget, where it is said that the country can topple in debt for a double amount of exports, and that double exports, and that double amount of exports, has long been exceeded. It is estimated that Serbia is in charge three times as much as it can export. It is clear and clear to us that the country is in a deep debt crisis, that even without these new duties, it is over-indebted and that the new government, which we believe will, in late April or early elections, receive a mandate from the citizens of Serbia, have a difficult job to deal with this much debt, but will have to do one thing – to investigate all these corrupting actions and all these robberies that took place in public enterprises, which we are now taking credit as a state and guaranteeing the budget of the Republic of Serbia that they will be returned. He will have to put in prison all those who in any way suspended the laws of this state, in terms of public procurement, and did affairs in black or guessing eyes in the eyes, where many millions of euros went into private pockets without being investigated until today. I am sure that the citizens of Serbia, no matter how strangely they are to the media campaign and total darkness in the media, will have the hearing to recognize who led them to the beggar stick and what this is leading to, and will severely punish the ruling coalition in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66071	It's been used 13 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Jorgenka Tabakovic, on the basis of Article 90, only a notice, as MPs are interested in how we will work until the end of today. Now we can already estimate that for this first joint search by registered speakers and by the total time that exists in the Rules of Procedure, we need about two more hours. If this is the pace of the debate, if we finish the first joint general search of around 17,00-17,15 hours, then we will open the second joint principled search and end today's working day with the conclusion of the debate on the common principle search and the second point. If the pace of the debate doesn't allow, if this debate lasts us until 1800-18.30 hours, then of course we'll schedule a working day for tomorrow and then we'll do a joint search tomorrow. On Wednesday, we are certainly doing a search in detail, as it takes 24 hours for the Business to pass from closing the search to opening the search in particular. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66072	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I'm going to continue the story of these 13 borrowing laws, and I'm going to pay particular attention to JAT, as a very irrational way of spending money where it spills out of the hollow into the bloated and where it spills, and no one is trying to breathe all those windows where the cold air comes in, and we're talking about energy efficiency and we're talking about building green houses, but we're not talking about how to protect the budget from excessive money leaks where we don't need it. I won't say, I won't speak politically, let alone politically, but let those who listen to me assess it. We're sorry Galenike fell into a debt knot. I ask the question – can a citizen come to the pharmacy and buy a cure without paying without a prescription? He can't. We as a state of Serbia have turned from beggars with a stick to a beggar with a hat, unfortunately all of us, but you can't ask for a drug in a pharmacy. You can't even if you're sick and you're a health insurance company, unfortunately I have family experience to get even the right to a medicine that needs to be obtained continuously or given an injection if you don't have a specific type of disease that some experts have estimated that you can get on a prescription so that this medicine, for example very expensive, pays less. How come there's a hole in the bill at Galenica in the Republic Health Insurance Office I only have two possible answers. Two answers that are real. It is that the affairs which are now being dealt with by the investigating authorities, the police, the judiciary and one is from the Republic Health Insurance Office during the process, as it is said, are vaccines, is only one of the discovered. In this house before you, I was opening up the problem of new health legislation, abnormally high prices where someone was supposed to be good again and get a commission, which is not to say Serbian, but to the burden of funds collected from contributions to health insurance and from the Republic budget. And who doesn't pay contributions to health insurance? Well, we heard today. These days we find out, those who can't verify health books, are reportedly respected by the law, which are some companies that are supposed to care, force and all by transferring the burden to someone before, that they had to do it with the railways, with the flag, or I don't know who. Is there a day when we will realize that the law must be respected from that day on and that the tax must be paid by everyone and that no one can get the goods without paying or pretending to be naive enough that we do not know that the debt node in the good part of the bill is split if we enter into the VAT Act a simple simple-expanded sentence – the right to return VAT after deduction only has the person who paid the invoice. Don't tell me, tax administration gentlemen, that they don't know how their company's phantom is charging them with VAT refund for invoices they never paid. It's like that kid's story called "change," that fantastic B 92 commercial spot -- somebody gets something for nothing. So, for an unpaid invoice, the company's phantom gets an 18% VAT refund because the law allows it. Who makes those laws? Who's proposing them? Who keeps their hands on their eyes and doesn't see how these laws apply? Power. Not you, ma'am, not me, it's the one who knows perfectly where the cracks are in the law, where the holes are, and where the abuses are, and who can be kept in one eye and get a good charge. They wouldn't owe the grandegoricals "Galenica", nor would that debt knot be so great if only that sentence were inserted into the VAT law. But someone doesn't want to see it or know it. What's our problem next? Why are we talking today about the IMF being angry with the state of Serbia because we want to capitalise on the only remaining Commercial Bank, and we're talking about it because we're giving it a guarantee for JAT's loan. I want to talk about this loan, but I want to talk about the bank from which we took credit to buy a building in Brussels, a bank that we boast is ours, where 25% have international financial funds. Now we say – the IMF is angry with us because we want to capitalise on the Commercial Bank and preserve our participation. That's not true. No one tells us how we need to meet some standards called the budget deficit, the economy at a certain level, but they're looking at us the wrong way, and they're not going to talk to us if we do it with credits and budget deficits, because it's the easiest thing that we can do, and that's all the inventiveness and creation of our economists and government. The easiest thing to say is, under the line doesn't count, I took the money when I was credited outside, abroad, with a foreign currency sign, but I keep it when I need it, I keep paying off my pensions, and the fact that those pensions are getting less and less for the amount of interest paid for the money that our very prime minister took in advance, he thinks some people don't understand. However, the Commercial Bank is not a problem today. It has been problematic since 2009, when it was possible to report that the crisis is somewhere and that we need to preserve a strong bank, we need to capitalise on the otherwise strongest domestic bank with the largest savings and then in 2009 it entered into the capitalisation of the Commercial Bank, the International Financial Corporation, the Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the German Investment Fund, the Swedish Investment Fund and we have made an obligation to reach that level over the next three years. You know what's interesting? That that same year, the income tax was abolished over 40,000 dinaracies had to, in some ways, create a government reserve that would compensate the problems that the financial global crisis in our country has created for people with smaller incomes. That's where we didn't confess. We said there is no crisis anymore, so we abolished that tax, so we no longer control the receipts on boards, but here we have accepted the obligation to reach the level of recapitalisation of otherwise strong bank and today we are pretending to be national-aware, economically conscious, that we do not give that commercial bank of ours. It's a story for those who want to believe. Everyone else knows that we are concerned about this size of credit because credits and credit and credit debt are increasing in Serbia, but the ability of the Serbian state to repay these loans is not increasing. That's the problem. That's what bothers every honest professional, and I believe that 99% of the MPs will make that remark to you. We don't mind being in charge of infrastructure projects, but we don't see where they are. Like the NIP, the pianos and the painting and whatnot, but something we haven't seen since the NIP. What are we gonna get back from? In 2011, there are three billion commitments, according to your recognition from the government. When I say yours, I mean the ruling coalition, the total expenditure on public debt payments in 2011 is 3,122,000 euros. You know our budget is close to nine billion. So, in 2011, one third of the budget went only to pay off the interest and the principal. Is there all the credits that were taken in the country? What do we treat with our own homework and what about our old loan? Do we take credit in the country, but take it in the euro? Nobody knows that anymore. There's neither the National Bank nor the Ministry of Finance agree when they give us information about it. When you add what minus we create every month by paying off pensions, which were raised to a level that couldn't endure the economy, it's no wonder we're worried and not panicking, but we're talking. Is there an increased ability to pay off these loans in Serbia, by working, by producing something, by paying workers, so these wounded have salaries that buy goods, pay taxes, contribute, so it pours into this empty fund of Republic Health Insurance or into this budget from which it flows wherever it can and however I can not say first with 137 or more agencies and to say the most directly where no dinar is being saved, because we would not have an affair that we are talking about today in the Republic Institute, that someone wanted to listen to the amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement proposed by one opposition party and the one who says "non-political" had to be also reversive. To accept a law that allows the state to save. And what's going on? We now have objections in public that are once a part, which I know the government has not given a report, now I can say about one piece and are established. You know, someone says best friends give you the most expensive loans. They say you got a loan from the Chinese, but these loans mean 0.75%, expenses and the part you don't spend, so they bring their workers, they spend their goods on nothing, so they hire their workers to keep them in the barracks. Where there is some indirect effect of this infrastructure investment. Even openly, for example, Mr. Wesand Dežer tells you – they are European loans than those you get from China, Russia or I don't know who, because they are conditioned, and I say the Spanish tram credit was also conditioned if someone remembers, and the papers testify. Anyone who is in an extremity like Serbia in the pantry, and has consciously brought himself into this extortion, is forced to use such unfavourable loans. How unfavourable are they? As long as we don't hire our people, the government doesn't plead, because she doesn't care what the citizens think about it? What I want to tell you - Public procurement law or directives that treat public procurement do not condition any country that uses foreign credit to hire only their companies. That's not just true. And the law proposed by the SNS on public procurement has completely taken over from EU legislation and even allowed positive discrimination from its own producers. But to that question, the government must come up here with an answer, as busy as it is with the phone call and the arrangement of government affairs or the election may be to refuse that remark that this government is in the position of a prisoner who hits his head against the wall and the new duties without any fundamental control are, I hope those people are wrong about the way in the hall say – where the Sirtaki game is played. It's funny, but it's really not the time to be funny, and at the time that I started doing the parliamentary work in 1992, the bankruptcy for the state was impossible. Today, with this kind of borrowing bankruptcy for the state becomes certain. I would not like for this Serbia to be told one day by a building in which people's representatives should speak, sorry, no longer serves that purpose. We decided to be a tourist object for presentation and that it brings us income so that you could settle the loans you took, and you did not enable Serbia's economy to repay those loans. How am I going to prove to you that we haven't trained the economy to repay these loans? For the third time in eight months, we give JAT, the money that has convinced us that the money it receives is simply not spent for the purposes that are intended, but that it is returned to its old debts and it is certain that this credit that is now planned from the Commercial Bank, since the previous one has been spent for about ten days, and we say – we need to take care of the dedicated spending of the credit, that we have some development bank to deal with it, etc. The government heard about what happened in ten days they all spent the paper writing, two, three texts and they all shut up and stopped at the counter again and asked for a new loan. Let's remind ourselves that the budget has been loaned to JAT, which will also not be returned. Has anyone forgotten that JAT sold the administrative building to the only successful company in this country, one of the few successful, Telekom Srbija. And what did he do with the pilot school and the planes and the airport in Vrsac? He turned over to the flight control agency on behalf of the debt beating. It's the agency that still charges the country's monopoly today and puts money in its own register, passing the budget as the agencies, which calls the curved Pisa Tower, which everyone manages, continue to spend money on citizens, in a monopoly position, and passing the budget. The fact that JAT has been known to be in poor shape for years and to be in big losses, must be the result of poor management by unprofessional, unfortunately speaking, party personnel. This can be seen from the auditor's report every year, because if you believe, there was a report saying that the auditor couldn't take a stand at all because the data is chaotic, contradictory and incomplete. And if that JAT could get a loan somewhere, this country wouldn't give him a guarantee or take his back for him. And what are the backs of this country? The pockets of citizens and the budget they fill. JAT also has a lot of disputes with fired workers who are receiving disputes over illegal layoffs. In the NBS, it was quite undetected because the NBS had money on the one hand, and on the other hand, Jelasic allowed you to assume jurisdiction over all judicial disputes concerning the work of the NBS, and even employees could not exercise their rights because of illegal cancellations like everyone else, but in the framework of the NBS, the JAT also spent on it. They were paid compensation for which funds were provided from the budget, but the procedure was conducted so unprofessionally that solutions were annulled by the court. After hundreds of workers were fired as an economic surplus on budget spending, JAT's leadership received hundreds of new party colleagues largely, relatives, friends, so today, according to JAT estimates, there are three times as many workers as it needs. And wages are, wages are more than twice the average of the Republic. Somebody deny me if I'm not telling the truth. Has anyone been responsible for these failures? Or they'll answer, at least because we're standing up for them as a state and stopping by some guarantee for them, we'll see. Minister Mrkonjic announced long ago that the JAT issue will be resolved by taking planes from JAT, pilots and fewer workers, as well as lines and other rights and that the new company would have no obligation to repay JAT debts and loans. In the rest of the JAT, only excess workers and all debts and loans would remain. It is one of Dinkic's inventions that cannot pass anywhere only in Serbia. The creation of a new company, as announced at that time, in which jobs, planes and parts of workers would be transferred, leaving the former with debts and extra workers without a job, is not in accordance with the law but is not in line with the obligations we have to the creditors, because they will not be allowed to be so damaged. Who's going to end up making sense of all the obligations? The state, according to surplus workers and damaged creditors, would cost it by estimated about 200m euros and 300m euros. I repeat, there is no exact amount of debt in JAT. The question is, what do we get in general by investing government money in a company like this? I think the issue of valid work permits and line rights is being raised, because licenses and rights are being narrowed down intolerable. That looks like someone bold with a mind. Certainly, the new act could not continue to operate on existing lines and use slots until the issue of legal takeover from the old company is resolved by foreign air authorities, until all these obligations are paid, so that the new act would have to obtain its own permits to carry out the work. I'm gonna finish up a part of the story about throwing state money into JAT with a few more sentences. The situation in the JAT is a reflection of the total chaos that the Air Force has. Eleven years back thoroughly and systematically and systematically destroyed everything that was related to the Air Force. It shall be replaced by the managers at the head of the most responsible air authorities, which, with the work in which they are found, have absolutely no connection in terms of education or experience. I'm not talking about benevolence. It's about running companies. Efforts to quickly apply some European Union regulations have caused huge problems, major damage to domestic airlines and aircraft owners, many have been deleted from the register, Serbian aircraft registers and have entered registers of other countries, and I don't think that Serbia can do anything to honor it. There have been no foreign or domestic investments in this area for five years because there are problematic regulations and illegal work both by the Ministry and the Civil Aviation Directorate. It is also evidence that some 50 regulations that have been laid down by law have been applied, and in this house I have shown you that based on the jurisdiction of the Diaspora Ministry, a basis was found to form the Civil Aviation Directorate. A company like this should not invest, because the state of Serbia and if there is much more to it than it has, it should not waste money like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66073	Twenty-two minutes and 45 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Vladan Jeremic, followed by MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, well, today, when this historic minimum of money is recorded in relation to here, we hear from the ruling majority MPs in the Serbian Parliament at this likely final session before the election is called and even more likely to leave the government, some amazing things about how well it is to assign the state to Serbia and its citizens for another few hundred million dollars or euros, anyway. It is entirely unsettled by the authorities that projects of the future or I do not know how this money is necessary for the normal functioning of certain public enterprises, because I think it is now quite clear that it is a simple pre-election of money in companies whose cash registers are controlled by the ruling coalition parties, and of course all for the sake of one social peace and the provision of voter support in the upcoming elections. Some of the concrete things, regarding the pharmaceutical company Galenika, are here, the confirmations of a 70m-euro guarantee, among several commercial banks and what is said to refinance the existing short-term Galenika commitments and to avoid the danger of the complete liquidity of this ruined company. The only thing missing was to say that the period of destruction of businesses over the past eleven years. There is, of course, a loan agreement for the first stage of the Kostolac B project, etc., and what I must admit is that this debt relating to JAT Airways, which is to refinance the existing short-term liabilities, is intended for a three-year period of repayment, including a 12-month standstill period. What is interesting, and I am sure that, above all, the public who follows the work of the Republic Parliament remembers that in 2010, as a state, we have provided guarantees for loans of 51.5m euros, which JAT took from the Socite General and Unicredit Bank, that the State Guarantee Act, which was then voted in the Assembly, should be spent on the revitalisation of the air fleet, and at least two million euros should be allocated for the lease of two new aircrafts. Instead, obviously that money was spent on this thing, it was actually spent on paying back old debts, paying salaries, etc., but it's obvious that no one was particularly shaken about it. Now a little math isn't burned to show how the state operates as owner. According to some previous statements, JAT's value in search of a strategic partner is 51m euros, i.e. exactly how much it took for this alleged repayment of debts. At the same time, these 10m euros to pay back further, therefore, debts, which means that the previous loan did not go into deleveraging, but that a portion of the missing 10m euros was poured into some other flows and that this is, in turn, true, showing what we can follow through the media under the control of the Democratic Party, which immediately, after publishing the news of non-intentional consumption began to distract the public with this empty story that sometimes Serbian businessmen might also participate in the privatisation of our only airline. None, therefore, of those reports, which have proved false in the meantime, because these tycoons are, and I will remind you of Miskovic, Bek and similar ones, have denied that they are more serious about buying, especially for the price of more than 25m euros. So no longer mention of a 51m-euro loan that apparently ended up in some other streams. The public works, it should point out, that Serbia should return this year without a little billion euros, which it has owed over the past few years, and that the debt continues to grow and what is a particular problem is that the possibility of returning all these loans is becoming more uncertain. It is not necessary to be particularly economically trained to understand, therefore, what kind of situation we are in as a state and as a society, and those who are a little more serious about these things, very easily come to the data that the rate of service for Serbia's external debt, the ratio of annual debt payments compared to the inflow, which we have as a country since the export of goods and services, has reached about 35%, which is as much as 10% more than the level considered maximum acceptable. Last year alone, 620m euros were allocated to repaying the public sector's external debt, this year it will have to pay exactly 999m euros, while in the following year, the total account will reach as much as a billion and a half euros, and in 2014, another one billion and 400m euros. You'll admit the numbers of which are the only things that could hurt your head. How expensive the borrowing is, it is clear when the interest is compared, especially that of the 7.25 per cent the state pays on euro bonds, which it broadcast with a growth of about 1.5 per cent, which is expected only by large optimists. Serbia has therefore come to the situation that it is missing 2.3 billion euros annually, and that is one hole that is very difficult to close, especially by reducing the budget deficit or perhaps by providing debt. So, the cruel truth is, and the facts show that this is so, that the government led by economist Mirko Cvetkovic for this time of office, therefore, has borrowed little more than 6 billion euros and that is more than any prime minister, so in the last 20 years together. What is the problem and what is economically absurd is that in Serbia it is obviously crucial to get the next elections or how to get ahead of voters and therefore not thinking about the execution of the general economic policy, which is being led. It's really high time to get out of an unreal state and go back to that harsher real and even more brutal direct future, which is waiting for us both during this, and for the next years. If it comes from this real sector or more concrete than agriculture, the fact is that, say, wheat is sown only 464 thousand 500 hectares which is a negative historical record, so Serbia could limit or completely suspend wheat exports and even become a net importer. It is almost entirely clear that the purchasing power of the population and businesses in 2012 will be reduced in a sensitive way and, of course, it is realistic to expect that all of this will negatively affect the demand and production of industrial products. All these negative effects that are due only to one devastating economic policy are expected, of course, because of the increase in the number of unemployed people, the increase in the number of pensioners, and the real fall in wages and the rise in cost of life will certainly have an adverse impact on both purchasing power and industrial production. So, the homeless, the growing indifference, the accumulation of losses, the more expensive loans, it's all going to affect the bad situation we're in. What I'd still like to point out at this point is that there are some things that could possibly affect the prevention of collapse, but obviously there's no mood, no desire to do such a thing. One of these topics and things that we have talked about in the SRS is certainly about providing more subsidies to agriculture and, of course, when it comes to foreign direct investment, we cannot agree on this current practice of paying foreign companies for each new job opening, but it is simply necessary to improve the conditions of adjustment and to improve Serbia's competitive position. In this sense, therefore, what is significant is what concerns small and medium-sized enterprises, and, of course, the state's reaction would have to be much more concrete than it was now. This is how one line of business is drawn and the population is in debt slavery. The economy owes more than 20 billion euros to banks, a population of nearly 600 billion. These mutual debts of the economy are huge and obvious that cars break down on the weakest and smallest. Over 22,000 small and medium-sized enterprises and 40,000 stores have blocked accounts, 10,000 are in bankruptcy proceedings, and in the last two years alone, over 44 thousand small companies, so that's the private sector that's supposed to be some perspective of economic recovery, has been shut down and that's a big problem. Over 400,000 jobs have been lost, and what is a frantic figure is that the state owes more than one billion euros to the economy. A million people are out of work, every tenth of the population lives below the poverty line, we know what the average salaries and pensions are. But we don't know when we'll get to what we insist on in the SRS, and that's the key question. So, responsibility for all those failures that marked this pro-European decade behind us. What should we do? Of course, first of all one recovery programme that is suitable for the situation, first of all a complete suspension of the IMF's tutorship and other White World banks and financial organisations, the development of the small economy sector, but this job will obviously wait for the government in which the SRS will implement the measures of that one, I would say, of all Serbia's recovery. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66075	Ten minutes and 50 seconds used by the MP's group. The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic. Time is available for 11 minutes, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66076	Thank you. This is respected MPs, respected Serbian citizens, practically a bankruptcy session that we have come to thanks to the ruling coalition's settlements. If that hadn't been the case today, there would have been no vote on a member of the High Council of the judiciary, on the deputies of the prosecution, because this particular deal was the need for this session to be held to discuss the loans of a billion and 459m euros on this agenda or, more specifically, 145 billion and 900 million dinars. Under these loans, we have loans to refinance Galenika, loans to individual projects that will most likely remain just something that will be a wishful one. Otherwise, this government has been followed from the beginning by the enormous borrowing we have warned of, the enormous increase in the public debt we have warned of and on those sides by DSS MPs is a completely peaceful conscience. We have also warned for international institutions, as well as for all citizens of Serbia, there is a high risk of this much borrowing and an increasing price of credit. As a result, credits are now extremely expensive, that interest on these loans is non-commercial, or commercial, for those who give them, an exceptional burden on citizens. The truth is, I will remind you that only in the last year to settle commitments on previously taken loans paid 4.07 billion euros, that for this year we should pay 3.8 billion euros, that in 2013 we should pay 3.4 billion euros and 2014 3.7 billion euros for the loans and the corresponding interest. All experts warn that the level of public debt already there in 2015 can exceed 60% of GDP, which is a danger to Serbia, for Serbian citizens, because then we go to those countries that are highly in charge of high credit risk. This is due to the fact that you have no vision, no strategy and that you support Serbia from illicit minuses, as published in one daily list yesterday. Your program was a scheme of deception and lies for Serbian citizens. You promised, I'll remind you, 200,000 jobs, higher wages, social policy. As a result of these promises, we have false promises and your inability to have over 400,000 people out of work, over a million people living below the poverty line, over 50,000 people whose lives depend on one meal they get in the soup kitchen. The lack of vision, unpreparedness and ignorance that only newly created value can finance spending cost Serbia's citizens, that in only four years public debt has increased by 5.8 billion euros, and I will remind you that at the end of 2007, public debt during the government of Vojislav Kostunica was 8.8 billion euros, that during the term of office of the government responsible for citizens was reduced by 2.2 billion euros. Today we have, and the IMF also warns us that the public debt has crossed the 45% magic line. Under the Budgetary System Act, the government was obliged, if the public debt crossed the legal framework, to deliver a programme to the National Assembly, together with next year's budget, for its reduction. You didn't do it. Instead, the government, led by Mirko Cvetkovic, whose headquarters is DS, on average, as my colleague Milan Lapcevic said, owed 55 euros per second, i.e. 4.7m euros per day, and only in the last year, 2011 owed 109 euros per second and 9.5m euros per day respectively. That, gentlemen, is the idea of your ignorance and deception that you went out with by the Serbian citizens. What are we waiting for this year? We've got new loans ahead of us with a much higher price and new guarantees. The bigger we know now that this year you're giving guarantees for 318 billion dinars, you're taking loans for 396 billion. These are prepared bill proposals and those currently in the process, with which you will burden the citizens of Serbia. We have a clear conscience, DSS MPs, because we have warned you of enormous debt, unemployment, the social position of citizens, of a huge indifference in an economy that owes more than 13 billion euros. Of the banking rankings, more than 20% of these funds can't be returned now, they're just reprogrammed and then the question is, how do banks do good business? Because Serbia is an "el dorado" for greeners, interestmakers, who use your incompetence and thus additionally burden citizens. Another law was to be found in the congregation procedure today, which is the law on payment deadlines. That's what we warned you about. We warned you about the behavior of trade chains that don't pay their dues to suppliers per year. In Serbia, the average of 183 days is now to settle obligations. In the EU, how you are running her heartily, and you are looking for a 15-day payment deadline. You are not prepared to comply with the laws you adopt, you are not prepared to create a normal environment for the lives of Serbian citizens who will and how to pay the price of your incompetence, irresponsibility and your false promises.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66077	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have to agree with one of the colleagues who said in the afternoon debate that the idea of such borrowings and these loans is really insane. In addition to the idea of madness, the arguments it is defended today in the assembly both by government representatives and by representatives of the congregation's majority, they are more than ridiculous. Mr. Minister, I agree that someone brought you a statistic paper saying that, as you said, the construction industry, or the construction sector, is growing by 17%. It probably says that somewhere, someone brought it to you, but that same statistics and life in Serbia suggest something else, suggest that industrial production in Serbia is falling, that there is an increase in the number of unemployed, that exports of our production and our economy are growing, that the value of the dinars is falling, and that I am not counting what is still happening, so that all of you are potentially in favour of this loan and have the strength to say in the name of the government today, indeed, is neither strong nor enough. We appreciate that from Germany 11, everyone sees construction firms being employed, 1,000 small businesses getting jobs, etc. Your everyday and cruel reality is being denied. You're being denied by people who no longer have money to heal and school, but who don't have the money to eat bread every day. The arguments of the representatives of the congregation's majority, they were just funny. What does that mean? These arrangements have been signed before, so now you have to ratify them? The arrangements are signed, the budget of the Republic of Serbia is not binding, but the moment you press the green button for these ratifications and for these laws, then the commitments of the Republic of Serbia begin to run. You may have hidden them in these laws, but the bankers are wise, corruptly wise, so even for money you don't withdraw to pay for the penalty. They will not be paid by you, but by the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the public finances of this country. What does that mean, these are guarantees, but they're not loans? Well, guarantees are part of the public debt. And guarantees burden the Republic of Serbia's budget. Those guarantees will eventually be launched at one point, as you defined in last year billions of dinars for running guarantees. There will also be guarantees for these loans in perspective. What do you assure us, that JAT will be able to borrow and service his debts, that it will do Galenika? As we once disputed for the Railway and others, that public enterprises that are in such an economic situation that are unable to repay their debts are more than ridiculous and more than unserious. To challenge all of this that you have brought before us today, we will not use the IMF response, there is enough intelligence in Serbia and there are enough arguments at every step in Serbia to say that Serbia is no longer able to be in charge and that Serbia no longer needs debts. They may need it for some things, but under completely different conditions. Mr. Minister, someone asked you today if you knew the amount of total debt on these loans, or ratifications. You said you didn't know, it doesn't matter. Do you know what with certainty you can't determine? Which is the average interest on which these loans will be returned. It doesn't say anything. It's almost not in any of these laws you're going to find, that's the problem. The problem is that interest rates and budget commitments of the Republic of Serbia are hiding tomorrow and are not being published. We even believe that you in the government don't know it, that at some point the banks will make you a commitment, and you're facing a final act because you're going to vote for this, you're going to ratify it today. You can't play with the state like that. You just can't, but you can't change your practice. As I pass through the tower this afternoon in this assembly, I hear a fellow MP, it doesn't matter who he belongs to or who he is, and I'll paraphrase him. Do you know what he said? Why would they be different at the end of the term? A man is absolutely right. He said it in another context, unrelated to this story and these borrowings, but he's absolutely right. For a four-year term, no positive and good thing could come together, but these things that destroy our economy and our perspective, around them you could always find consent. Look what brought you to 126 today. Our country is falling apart on KIM. They're taking KIM from us. Messages to Republika Srpska go negative. The economy is ruined. We're discussing new responsibilities and you're talking about your political responsibility and you're going to come out with arguments based on such facts now to the citizens. What are you gonna tell them? What have you offered me and your neighbors and everyone else, implementing this European policy in Serbia for the last ten years? For all the arguments today, it is the sole denial of life, Mr. Ministers and gentlemen of the congregation's majority, the life you unfortunately direct us, you direct it with a sick European policy, and you may be able to lend us, but we sincerely hope and trust in God until May. After May, fiscal policy will lead national awareness, hopefully, and politically responsible people. Today we're listening to the story of Galenika. This morning, Madam President of the Assembly said, defending this loan -- you know what, Galenika has claims, 70 million. And that should be an argument that the state as a guarantee appears in this story? What did the geniuses from Galenika or the government not offer these claims as a guarantee? Why did the lenders not accept these claims as a guarantee? No, because they know how much they charge. Instead of all of you telling the government together – send us a law that will solve claims and "Galeniks" and all other public enterprises, to discuss these mechanisms today, you remembered to use the Galenika claims as an argument to burden Galenika with a new loan. It's disgusting, it's really disgusting and without any economic logic. Here, we wanted to be very useful and practical this time, when it comes to Galenika. Do you know what we suggest? Since there have been a lot of words in public about robberies and citizens, we suggest you call on a law that you use very often today, that is to say, you call with pleasure and treat it as a great success of this government and this majority. You've got that property-absorbing law that came out of the crime scene, so what you're saying is that they robbed Galenika, take their property, and bet on it as a guarantee for the loan you're withdrawing today. Who gives you the right to place me on someone's waste or someone's waste as a guarantor, any of you who pays taxes in the budget of the Republic of Serbia or our children? No one gave you the right to do that. Someone's gonna rob, abuse, give the heritage public, which isn't just his, but that's why we're all gonna pay for it together. You can, but we sincerely hope and trust in God, only until May and there will be an end to this irresponsibility and this waste. In that context, I'll remind you of a JAT loan. A year and a half ago from these benches came a warning to SRS MPs who disputed a 51 million loan. Am I right, Mr. Novakovic? You were the chairman. "You will see radicals what happens in a year when we adopt a 51 million loan." What happened? It's not funny, Mr. Novakovic, we're screwed. They spent 51 million the way the Assembly didn't empower them. You know what JAT geniuses say? They say -- don't wash your hands from the government, you've given a blessing on all the changes in the spending plan. Who's lying to who here? We are also deceived by you who voted for this law and us who challenged something that was obviously different from what was happening in that JAT. Where's your JAT today? It's the only company standing on its feet, or on the ground, as you said in a joke. He's more in charge than he was. You haven't found a strategic partner for him, and the property you've assessed for his restructuring or privatisation process, who knows how many times smaller than real. Three hundred million is worth only the slots that this company has. What do you offer Serbian citizens? You are offering a new company that will participate in half of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and will make half of it a consortium of unseemly wealthy. Milorad Miskovic will have the most in the consortium. The second is Miodrag Kostic, king of sugar to drive planes. That's what you're offering us. But before a new company is created, the cost of JAT's state will be another 10 million. Why accept that? Why should we support that? Why didn't you find what you promised a year and a half ago, a strategic partner? You're friends of the world, you're European children. You cultivate European values. They respect and respect you. And who knows what else you're willing to do to harm the Serbian people and this country to make European hypocrites pat you on the shoulder, and the more they pat you, the more our economy is getting ruined and our territory is getting smaller, unfortunately and unfortunate. On what terms do you take this loan? Imagine, a long-term loan coming back for three years. Explain to me what short-term loans are, you geniuses from the majority? There's no one in power. What's a medium-term, short-term loan if it's a long-term loan for three years? Your Governor Šoškić goes on TV and convinces the people – now we will do deeuroisation, dinarization of credit, etc. Why are you taking a credit indexed in euro, with a currency clause on the cost of the state? Enough of that lying. A lot more games with security, with consciousness and intelligence and with peoples and individuals who possibly have a chance to discuss this, or to take a critical turn at this. It's really embarrassing. We're listening to Mrs. Nad Kolundji take care of the Serbian economy, so we have this small- and medium-sized loan app and a genius statement -- the economy of the 1990s falls apart, now we assume it's booming. Now the economy is booming in your direction and your privatisation and everything that's been going on for ten years. Instead of discussing how, as I said earlier, Galenika would collect his debts and claims, we could also build these people's mechanisms, that they would collect their claims, that you would settle your obligations to them as power. It is the easiest thing to do, so you will be sharing loans to them on the cost of the state and citizens of the Republic of Serbia and you are big. Under what conditions and what interest? Two things to say here. First, banks in Serbia are fully capitalised to finance the economy even without this loan. A few months ago, the Basel 2 standard was adopted. Based on this standard, everyone had to meet additional criteria relating to bank risks and all banks in Serbia did so and they all had enough capital and without these 100 million to finance both small and medium-sized enterprises. Why aren't they funding them? Because in Serbia, you can count on the fingers of one hand the companies that have the bonuses to withdraw the loans, and when you enter into the structure of these loans for what they need, for liquidity. What do you assure us of? That in Serbia, some of these loans will invest in new technologies, in new production processes. Oh, no, you don't. I'm asking you, there's no one from the government, let's say, these geniuses, like Kiric, could tell me, in the Pcin County that a small or medium-sized enterprise is capable of withdrawing one single euro based on this credit, let me say, arrangement, on this interest? Why through business banks, why burden interest on the interest margins of business banks when you are already safe and responsible government and state? What's that for? Because you're basically helping banks, not small, not medium-sized enterprises. How rhogobatically this sounds - mid-market capitalisation, in a country with the largest capital market on the European continent - medium market capitalisation. Do you even know what the annual turnover is on the Belgrade Stock Exchange? Two hundred million euros. Well, my people, the companies that have today's credits, they won't even take them. There's no need for them to take them, turn their resources or their nuts, possibly, from the outside, send them funds. You're playing with the economy, you're playing with the people, and of course, when you add it all together, you're playing with the state. But it doesn't make any sense. You don't care. If you'd shown a speck of responsibility to the state, we wouldn't be here today and we wouldn't live the way we live. She defended Mrs. Nada Kolundzija's credit for Belgrade, so she told us here – the citizens of Belgrade know how much this bridge means to them. Now you DS will defend Belgrade's citizens from the opposition in the Republic Parliament. Why don't you explain to the citizens of Belgrade how much the bridge really costs them? How much less money could that same new bridge get? You know what? In the light of this law, it says that loans are financed on these credit lines. It says the European Investment Bank approves loans with minimum annual interest, primarily for the development of underdeveloped regions. Of course, like others, but Belgrade. Isn't that right, Mr. Novakovic? First of all, Belgrade. Then, modernising transport telecommunications and energy infrastructure, and everything else goes, so now I don't list, balancing development in the EU, which, among other things, is falling apart, which doesn't know what to do with itself and its problems. Now I'm asking you -- how am I supposed to support this? How can we support what is in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, although all the mechanisms for borrowing local self-government have not been put into office since you have passed the laws, but are still not being applied until the end. The debt of local self-government compared to GDP is 2%, the debt of local self-government. In the entire long local self-government, three-fifths of the debt falls to the city of Belgrade. So Belgrade is in charge of 68 billion, and the next city is one billion and 800 million dinars. And you are calling for balanced regional development and you are making a balance at EU level, that is, Serbia as part of the European continent. Under what conditions will you and what does it say here? It doesn't say anything. Nothing can be seen from this, what will and how much the essential Republic of Serbia will cost access roads on the Sava bridge. What I'm going to end up with, which I can't help reading, in one sentence, besides the other, in a contract that you're going to vote for, respected gentlemen of the majority and you, Mr. Minister of Government, after adopting this in the Government, you know what it says in Article 6? The guarantee, which in this case is the Republic of Serbia - is guaranteed this way, be careful now, deny any payment rights or compensation from the EU. Who gives you the right to deny us the right to compensation from the EU? And as your policy according to KIM for the SRS act issues, this is an act of economic betrayal. Who gives you the right to free my children or your children from any damages from the EU? What do you care, you will vote – yes. Three or four more months, then what does he care about and where he's going to work and what the money's going to be spent on? Dear gentlemen of the government, we sincerely hope that this European policy breath from May will clear up and that Serbia will take a new, self-indicated path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66079	It's been used 20 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66080	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will begin with one comparison. Last year's work the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia began with a session whose first item of the agenda was guaranteeing, and the second item of the agenda of borrowing. Nothing changed this year either. The only thing we have at the beginning of this year's work are the first seven points relating to the granting of guarantees and then, on the agenda, there are six more points concerning new borrowings. It is true that about 20 days ago, we had a session that one day discussed the selection of members of individual bodies, but since it was only today that we voted, we can practically consider today some of the beginnings of the work of the National Assembly, if we exclude the work of the MPs in the Assembly committees. This long gap from the day of the debate to the day for the vote, tells all about relations and the responsibilities of the representatives of the authorities. We had opportunities to inform ourselves through the media, that the National Assembly would continue its work, so that the assembly majority would vote on the reform laws required by the EU. This is the agenda. Are these the reform laws that the EU requires of this authority? Are they asking for Serbia to be in this debt? What part of the agenda of today's session is reform laws, and what is it that is actually reformed? Nothing. This only fills the form, so that new loans can be taken, new guarantees are issued for loans, which are highly likely to arrive at a guarantee charge, i.e. the budget of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the SRS is concerned, I will repeat our view that it is not a good debt for the citizens of Serbia, and even worse is the adoption of laws in the Assembly that the authorities say are European agendas or reformist according to EU requirements. Serbia should not be dragged into this European project because it does not bring good to citizens. The KIM-related blackmails, customs losses due to the unilateral application of the SAA, are only part of the negative consequences of the blindly-led policy. The SRS has seen that these borrowings and the guarantees issued will reflect the economic reality in Serbia. What authorities are doing today clearly shows that no project can be implemented in Serbia without additional borrowing. The economy is almost destroyed, and hence, the population is poored and the logical consequence is very small inflows of funds into the budget. On the other hand, needs are high. The government saw the loans as a solution. From year to year, the situation has not been corrected, and debts, i.e. Loan liabilities have accumulated. Changes to the Budgetary System Act relating to fiscal responsibility have also been adopted in vain. By law, a fiscal council was established, as we know. It is important to point out that the Council gave an assessment of the implementation of the fiscal rules in 2011 and some of the developments in 2012 and the following years. The estimate says public debt reached 46.4% of GDP at the end of 2011, which is above the legal limit of 45%. Serbia's public debt increased by 2.3 billion in 2011, while its participation in GDP increased by 2.2%. According to analyses by the members of the Fiscal Council, their expectations are that further public debt growth due to low growth and planned deficits of 4.2% of GDP is inevitable in 2012. Also, the evaluation of the Fiscal Council is that at the end of this year public debt can be 51% of GDP. The fiscal council's alarming forecasts are that by 2015 it will be able to reach 55%. But that's not all, it should be added 5% for restitution, which means 60%, gross social product. What is absurd is attempts by the authorities to justify themselves by saying that all the data that is justified by breaking the law are in fact incorrect and that the problem in the methodology, in the manner in which the measurement is carried out, that in other countries the accounts are done in one way, and in our other. One thing is clear: the law adopted here in Serbia is applied according to the methodology applied to us. It's just an unconscious attempt to justify something there's no excuse. When the law adopted the methodology was famous. The fact is, and it should be said openly, that it was done wrong and that this is the reason for this state of public debt, and there is no need to look for a guilty person in the way of reckoning. It was wrong when it came to a privatisation process where a lot of people were out of a job. It was wrong because many agencies and other bodies were created that cost an extremely large budget. It was the wrong thing to do with public enterprises. Let's just remind ourselves that the biggest losers among the public enterprises acted like the biggest losers. He looked mostly at the interests of those who got to work in them, the money was spent properly, and then the state had to write off their debts and pay them back instead. With so much corruption, the EU will not want anyone, even if he has been a candidate for many years. The SRS sees every guarantee as a new debt of the Republic of Serbia's budget, because we do not see those guaranteed, as responsible, who will properly serve their obligations. This view of us is based on practice so far. All these mistakes and many others have led to the fact that, all that is necessary, cannot be done without a loan. Clearly, if you don't have the infrastructure, you can't expect an investor's nest, and the infrastructure costs money. To be crystal clear, we are not against any project that will in any way improve the quality of life of Serbian citizens, but the way they finance destroys any hope that there can really be an improvement in the quality of life in Serbia, a huge number of credits, I speak in general, not only of those on today's agenda and with too much interest, but also of processing costs, all of which increases public debt overall. It's good to look at some of the arrangements we're discussing today. An explanation of why they need to be carried out by an emergency procedure. As soon as possible, it is necessary to obtain funds to refinance existing short-term commitments, so as not to result in the full liquidity of the borrower. This is what it says at the Galenika Guarantee. For the purpose of refinanceing existing short-term obligations, it is necessary to conclude a loan agreement with a business bank within the shortest time period, so that the borrower does not arrive in the future, thus jeopardising the company's ability to service its liabilities within the deadline – writes at the guarantee for "JAT Airways". We had the opportunity to hear representatives of the authorities during today's debates saying that none of these arrangements are for consumption, but for development. Teached by current practice, all the guarantees issued by the government we treat as a potential debt of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I will also point out that the IMF representatives who led this authority to totally wrong steps came out with the view that Serbia's 2012 budget is not in line with the fiscal programme. Again, Serbian Prime Minister and Finance Minister, whose place today was with the MPs, in the National Assembly, Mr Cvetkovic tried to justify that it is not a criticism, that guarantees are foreseen in a higher amount, but that not all will be realised, there is no telling which ones will be realised, which they will not, and that they will allegedly fit into the allowed scope. The problem that is evident, when it comes to public debt, is how it will come back when we realistically look at the conditions in which the Serbian economy is located. It wasn't in time that this government got rid of a consultant in the face of an IMF mission. She did not resist the challenge of borrowing from financial institutions under unfavourable conditions. Most of the things she's done have been justified by the European path, and here's how far it's come. There was no maturity for Serbia to be run as a sovereign country to co-operate with other countries based on reciprocity, as is possible for co-operation with Russia, China, Belarus, the Arab world of Latin America. A form called the EU needs to be run away, as Serbia's citizens have nothing good to do. Seeking membership in the formation, there was a high public debt, officially according to the Fiscal Council data at the end of last year, 46.4% of GDP, the unemployment rate that exceeded 24%, the growing number of users of the people's boxes and the poor and on the other side of a small number of unsuitably wealthy. It's clear whose responsibility it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66081	Eleven minutes and 25 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, followed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66082	Mrs. Comic, how long is it? (President: twenty-five minutes and 45 seconds. Thank you. Mrs. Comic, I will start at the beginning with the fifth column in power since July 2008, since it is the only common topic for these 13 agenda points. So the connective tissue is the fifth column. So 1.5 billion euros in borrowing, which is direct, which is indirect, united in one debate, 13 points in the agenda, so find out how much the average is hundreds of millions per item on the agenda, so figure out how many minutes we're going to talk about each of these points in this topic and you'll see that you've devalued the euro as well. Sometimes each of these points has been talked about for two days, to convince the power of the arguments, both the government and the opposition, and especially the audience, the public, why this solution is the most acceptable and best at the moment. So, no more persuasion, no more room for arguments, there's a space left for a single painting called expectation, hope, belief and that confrontation of belief and hope for Mrs. Comic and my arguments, most of the 126 who shared the same hope with Mrs. Comić, which is – Europe has no alternative. However, the statistics that this authority of yours, Mrs. Komic, serves as an argument. I do not dispute your hopes, however, 400,000 jobs are no longer in Serbia. Three hundred thousand has increased unemployment. Five hundred thousand can't serve their loans monthly. I know you believed it wasn't going to happen, but human intelligence requires a little bit of a headache to get in, to see, not to take everything for granted. You see, they tortured these in the EU, and now no one in the EU supports the EU, but here is the Chinese Wall, the EU's last line of defence. So I'm telling you, we're talking about the fifth column. If we're too in charge, I've been telling you that for 10 years. You've done so much to me that I don't need to repeat it anymore. Normally, I know it's normal for you to punish me. Why wouldn't that be normal? That's normal. We're on completely different lines. You'll meet every request from Brussels, Washington, and I won't blink my eye when it comes to them. I'm interested. I know it's bad. The one who bombed us, the one who took away Kosovo and Metohija from us to think well, come on, please. Just hope so. Argumentation is something that must have primate in healthy judgment, Mrs. Komic. To reason on hopes and beliefs of judgment, but to believe. It's not the doctor's confidence, it's the belief. How did that go, gentlemen? Let's see how it started in 2008. The political scene was divided, so they said -- radicals, DSS and SPS are against the European Union, they will be defeated. Well, 128 terms of office have been won. What does Wikiliks say, Mr. Obradovic, six months before the election Dacic and Manter agreed that you would move into this democratic bloc... (President: National MP, given that you are in favour of argument, I would ask you to apply this on your own case and on the subject of the agenda. ) Of course, the argument has to be found in Wikilix telling me. (President: I warn you that in that case you force me to use an argument, violate the Rules of Procedure of the People's Parliament. 'Okay, I'm just telling you how the borrowing started. Why did the borrowing take place? (President: National MP, agenda theme. Please keep all of your creative discussion down to 13 points of the common principle search. I'm just talking about these 13 points. (President: I will pray.) ) The component that combines all these 13 points is pathological love for the European Union. (President: People's MP, I now warn you, for the second time after this, I make warnings, because you do not use arguments, and for arguments you advocate, and you remind me that arguments are necessary, that it would be good, that pathological love is not an argument. It's one state of unnecessary emotion. So please, argument. ) Mrs. Comić, I didn't affect your emotional state, did I? May I? I know it's hard to influence your emotional state. You see, Mrs. Comic, when you want to talk about the arguments, 10 years ago, a project was designed to build a decommissioning facility for the "Nikola Tesla" Termopower Plant. The project, or even the contract, existed with a domestic company, imagine in Serbia there are people who know how to do this job. The electricity industry paid big money for the project and it wasn't some big problem to realize. It has its own economic and ecological status, etc., etc. But don't lie to the devil, play little Djelic. The game is small Djelic, making an agreement with the Japanese, and now we have in this part of the 13 laws of two regarding the detour for the "Nikola Tesla" Termopower Plant. Mrs. Comic, let someone explain the argument to you now. A little economically and technologically qualified man with such a big heart, full of love for Serbia and the Serbian people. From our electricity industry, he could make not gold coke, but a farm, that there's no problem in our budget for additional funds anymore. Something similar would happen if we had one like it, not a former cigarette dealer headed by Telecom. Then there would be no need to intervene according to possible education, because out of the profits of these two public enterprises there could be a lot to end. So this is still a subject as much as Serbia loves, which respects the Republic of Serbia. Who concentrates on putting all our internal forces in function of the development of the Republic of Serbia. Now, let me get back to what you want to talk about. You see, there are some fiscal rules. You wrote and you chose the people who should be in that fiscal council. They looked at some papers and saw that there was a great danger. With all the risks, with all the restrictions, which when it comes to gross social product is given some projection, some picture, some assumption. With all the limitations and uncertainty, which the size of the gross social product can depend on both course and iron, etc., as it has been ironed for years. But they say – this year there will be no growth of gross social product. Those foreign mentors of yours say Europe can't count to 1.5. Zero five would be an extremely good result. When they take it as a restriction in planning budget spending or public spending at all for 2012, they say savings, there is no other. It's got to be saving. Why? It's firing the system, but you can't make a savings. Look how long it's gone for Dulic for this at Stepe Stepanovic's. It doesn't matter, when it's done, there's going to be a cheaper price per metre square, than they gave money to build. It's a loss of substance. You don't care about that. You want to run through these 27 laws for these two or three days and get the opportunity to spend your resources on the budget. Why waste those funds? So, counting on another picture to prevail in people's heads, in order to eventually start accession talks in 2389, someone will choose pro-European parties. Now we're covered in expectations and now Mrs. Comic's something that agrees. And when it agrees with 15 agencies compared to a total of 20 agencies, then it has a high degree of probability. You know what Mrs. Comic says about the state of the Republic of Serbia? You don't know. It is said, if the score is one to five, Mrs. Komic has given you 1.8. You've been repeating Mrs. Comic. What do we do, you have to go to juvie. When asked what is the situation with you individually, Serbian citizens say, between one and five, 2.25, you have a four, I know Mrs. Comic, which is why you love the EU. (President: Either to link the ratings to the guarantee that it will be so in the next period or on the agenda. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now I'm going to tell you where you're recalculating. What are your neighbours' expectations for 2012? He says it'll be better 16.2%. It's gonna be the same, so nothing's wrong. (President: People's Parliament, I interrupt you and dare to interrupt the MP only when he violates the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, public opinion research is linked to a joint search. By borrowing? I'm just talking about borrowing and talking. These are all citizens talking about borrowing. So they recognize you as the authority that entrusted this people. They think you're in charge of the state. (President: Please discuss the agenda. I wouldn't interrupt you talking about the agenda. You can't be the one who knows exactly what I'm saying. (President: I listen carefully to you, if you rarely experience it, I always listen to you carefully and I can repeat what you have said. I dare to interrupt you only when you're completely straying from the agenda theme. Just listen, but you better just hear me out. Don't listen to me, you'll be wrong. (President: I warn you now, the agenda theme or else you'll have to listen to me. Okay, we shouldn't be in debt because if we're in debt then we go to NATO Pact, and 71% of citizens don't want to hear about the NATO Pact, they don't see Serbia in the NATO Pact. So this is in stark contrast to the interests and expectations of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. People, you have no right to do anything against the people, this is against the people. You have no right to work against the people to do something against the people. This is against the people. You have no right to work against the people. You must adhere to the Constitution. Now, Mrs. Comic, let me tell you the second part of this borrowing. You see, in these 13 borrowing laws, we don't have any law relating to the Russian Federation, and 60% thinks Russia is the only one looking at us economically to say with some sympathy. You're frowning. Don't frown. You'll make a big mistake. This borrowing, Mrs Comic, has to do with the kidnapping of KiMi when you ask questions to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are you in favour of joining the EU and surrendering to KIM? Do you know how many citizens there are for that? Nine point seven percent, so 9.7% of citizens would accept these bill proposals, and 76% would not listen. Well, I want people to represent 76% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I do not dispute that you represent these 9.7% of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Stand by. I just want to hear it, Mrs. Comic. These laws say that you have not fulfilled any of the promises you made to the citizens in 2008. If you said in 2008 that you'd be borrowing the state, you know how many votes you'd get? Zero. You've got it. I can tell you exactly how many votes you got, but I won't, so you won't give me a warning. You see, now that you're asking the citizens if the government has fulfilled its promises, it says - completely 0.8%, bright 0.8%. It says – in part 25.30 says – no promise is fulfilled 56%. Mrs. Comic, I want to represent these 56% I have nothing against 0.8% that you represent. (President: National MP, I am sure that no one in those 56% you wish to represent would approve of you breaking the rules of this institution, and neither do I. So, on the subject of the agenda. Last warning. Mrs. Comic, I'm just talking about borrowing. (President: People's MP, if you don't start talking about the subject of the agenda, then I'll put you in charge. But, Mrs. Comic... `(President: I beg of you on the subject of the agenda, otherwise I will have to assign you the first warning, the second warning, and so on. I'm asking about the agenda. Mrs. Comic, I have no doubt about what you're saying, don't worry about it at all. I know you think what you're saying. I know you'll do what you said... (President: And you're right. So this is the last warning during the time you are at your disposal or you will use the time until the end for the agenda topic, or my next interruption will be to give you a warning measure because of your disrespect for the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Comic, don't worry. I'm sticking to the agenda. I've got thirteen laws in my left hand. All the laws are some borrowing, do you guarantee, whether confirming some agreements that essentially mean borrowing. It is clear to all of us in this Serbia when it comes to some guarantee law that is the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, it is not a classic guarantee. None of our public enterprises except Elektroprivreda have for some time met their obligation, so the guarantees of the Republic of Serbia have always been activated, and we all know that. It's just a matter of technique whether to go direct borrowing or go guaranteeing. This is all going to be charged over the budget. When said over the budget, that means per capita, taxes, taxes, whatever the state charges, is used to pay off this. Is this necessary? Is there any possibility of providing better arrangements? We don't have the answer to that question. We have an answer if we read the U.S. Embassy dispatches. Mrs. Comic, the U.S. Embassy departments have written why we're in charge this way, and why we're not in charge of each other, but I won't, since you said you'd give me a warning. I'll give you the book and you'll see. Americans don't lie. They don't need to lie. Besides, they're your friends, so let's just say they're lying. You can't. Mrs. Komic, these 13 laws are the most important evidence of corruption and crime. If you don't believe me, I would like to say that 50 per cent of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is corrupt. More precisely 89.5% of citizens, they think that without corruption, you can't get a cure, you can't go to a doctor, you can't get anything. I know if I were to say it this way you don't like it, you can dispute it with a nice story about how ugly it was when Milosevic was the SPS president, Slavica Djukic Dejanovic was the vice president, and Ivica Dacic was the spokesman for the SPS. You can attack it freely, you can attribute it to me. I'm not mad at you. There's no need to be angry. Feel free to attribute it to the Serbian Radicals. And when you were in power in 1992 and attributed it to us doesn't matter, but forget one thing about the time of hope and expectations has long passed now it is important for Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic to explain to people what kind of picture they see. What kind of authority owes the state two billion euros of interest, in anticipation of some elections, of course, to push through a few more months, in order to eventually block something else there, paid something small, but that story was told, but that story was told. Anyone who believed the DS was killed, it's clear to you, everyone who believed the West was killed. Who made a good deal with the West on state issues? No one, ever. You're a product of the West in power, you have to trust them, you have to serve them and you have to sign everything and everything, and it doesn't matter what Hillary Clinton says. No, in our public, you're going to rot your grandmother's lan, and now on March 1st, you're going to be talking about membership candidate status, no matter what the negotiations start, eventually what happens, when it will be. You know that's not gonna happen. Well, that's completely irrelevant to life. Well, that doesn't solve any of this country's problems. So where is that People's Office of the President of the Republic that solves all your problems effectively. No more people's office, what about her? People's cuisine has grown, the office has become a kitchen. Well, that's a European standard for us. So what do European standards look like when you apply them in Serbia? It is the borrowing of Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. I could now tell you about each of these laws specifically what's hiding, not between the lines. I could even name names to tell you suitcases and these and them, and official cars and who's the chairman of the board of directors, who's been installed, who's transferred to which football and sports teams, etc., all of which I can tell you, you know that I know that. But it doesn't matter today. Today it's important that the connective tissue is for these 13 laws. The binding tissue for these 13 laws is the fifth column in Serbia. You are not interested in Serbia, you are not interested in the Serbian people, you are interested in how to maintain positions – take everything that life gives you. Who's to be ashamed of? Who said I was embarrassed? In Galenique for medicine, who knows if it'll be in a few months. It's connective tissue. It must be stamped in the next election. In the next election, the people should first of all say what they think about this government, this authority should account for this. Not only to make an account from the point of view of the promise, but to what was done. Tell me what's well done. There's nothing. There's gonna be a copy of it that's gonna eat something later. It doesn't matter. Two copies will chew, never mind. And? And you'll be fine, you'll solve all the problems of the citizens. Now attack Milosevic, bypass Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, attack Milosevic, attack everyone. Is that how you're gonna cure this situation? Yes, you're going to cure him. The people didn't expect that from you. The people expected results from you, but results for the people and for the state, not for private pockets. And I don't want to talk about private pockets. And this time that they call upon, I worship you so beat you into the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66083	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66084	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing 13 very important and significant borrowings for the Republic of Serbia. There are people who claim Serbia is an overindebted country, and indeed we have brought this percentage of 45% of the public debt compared to GDP. Today, when we talk about the rhythm and extent of borrowing of our country, it is important to note and say, explain, to the citizens of Serbia why we are in charge, especially when there are opposition arguments and explanations of this borrowing which say these are pre-election borrowings, that these are borrowings for pre-election marketing, that this is the bankruptcy session of this assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it should tell the citizens of Serbia, these are all the borrowings that were planned in the budget this year, these are all jobs that will not only be done by this government but by the next government. I don't understand why some people from Chuck don't like Chuck. Why don't some people like the Upper Milanese? Why do some people in this country, in this hall, think that the citizens of Ljiga, Cačka, Gornji Milanovac, do not need the road, and in the election campaign have collected the number of deaths, bid material damage done on the Ibari Masteral. They had the opportunity to show all their luxury talent, have had the opportunity to show how much they love Serbia, how much they love Cačak, Gornji Milanovac, Mine, Topola, they had the opportunity to make that highway. We don't make highways on the mentioned section to win the election, nor do we load that highway on our backs once we're out of power. Everything remains for Serbia's citizens. Everything we do, what we do, we say we did the money of the Republic of Serbia, we never say we did, because we did the moment we opened our own wallet, when we built our own highway with our own means. I have to do for those who suffer from amnesia, and you are Mrs. Djukic-Dejanović's doctor and you know that amnesia is a wonderful thing, every day you hear something new and nothing hurts. But for those lovers of amnesia, I'm in the O.R., here are the records and reminders of what the amnesia lovers said, what they did, what they had a chance to do. Here, for my esteemed predecessor, who calls me the fifth column, when he was the minister of trade, I admit I was a five-colonaire, every day I was fifth in the milk column, zeythin, sugar. Now I am Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, with you, the first column and we are first in a column leading this country towards a European future. We have firmly set up this roadmap, but in order to be in the EU, not because we or the Democratic Party want it, but because that is what the citizens of this country want, it is necessary to arrange this country at least to look like European countries. I will remind you who suffer from amnesia of the speech of a great one, by my understanding and understanding of a great man who was heard in this very high house, who said: "Today, all the regions whose history is rich in mutual wars and destruction in the communities of rich and civilized peoples. They do not give up their history and their specialities, but live together, jointly turn to the future, the benefits of economic integration and cultural persuasion. Didn't we do the same thing in 1941 in a fight for a naked life, for full national equality? Should we return the wheel of history and pay the price we already paid? We will pay the error by poverty, by poisoning the spirit and by the position of a remote periphery in Europe." The big words were spoken by Ante Markovic, when he explained his economic programme, which Vojislav Seselj said was aimed at destroying Serbia economically. I'll just remind you he inherited a $22 billion debt and everyone accused him of overindebted Serbia, SFRY, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia and Macedonia. And then we had one German brand worth six dinars. The dinar could be bought in Austrian banks, the dinar could be bought in Swiss banks. The SFRJ received a huge loan from the United States and soon the fallen economic country became a respected economic partner. Unfortunately, you who cast me had different ideas, different plans today when we talk about borrowing Serbia, again I have to remind you – do not hate the citizens of Obrenovac who will receive the loan, because in Obrenovac they did not vote for you. I understand your bitterness. Don't have any misunderstandings for the citizens of Gornji Milanovac. They need to have a freeway. Don't you like the citizens of Chacka. They have the right to have a freeway. That loan from Azerbaijan with 4% interest is taken for them. It is not true, as my predecessors said from another political party who counted on how much we owe each minute, that one of these loans will also be used in the election campaign. It's true that we'd be less in need of credit if that badger in Colubara had worked a little less, at least one shift if he'd skipped it. When you count on how much we owed in a second during the DS government, then calculate how many 120m euros, how much was missing in the Colubara, then divide by one year, and you will get to the 10m-euro figure per day. Then do not wonder why half of the members of the main board of a political party are sitting in the Central Prison and why they are easier to hold a session of the main board in the Central Prison than at the Sava Center. When you accuse and point your hand at Oliver Dulic for a 35m-euro loan that will receive the Building Directorate, go to the construction site, to the young people of this country who have the right to their future, who have the right not to live with their father and mother at 30 years of age, they have the right to start a family and buy an apartment on loan. Explain to them why it is bad for these apartments in Duke Step's settlement to end, and then remind yourself that you claimed to make 100,000 apartments of solidarity, so you turned both of the 100,000 apartments of solidarity when you finished your term. You need to explain to Serbian citizens why and why it is not good to finally end the sulphur pollution in the Obrenovac thermal power plant and why the loan from the Japanese government is not good. Of course, there will always be a cry from the opposition that Serbia is excessively in debt and is unable to repay its debt. It is true that we are very in charge of the country. I'm telling you again -- a little bit more optimism, a little better messages to the citizens of this country, because debt is really an evil friend. We are in debt because every year we spend more, a billion and 200, 300, maybe 400m euros than we earn. We have serious economic difficulties, but at a time when the economies of far more developed countries have fallen than Serbia, when Greece is on its shoulders, when Ireland sinks, when the Baltic countries are facing an economic breakdown, when the economic breakdown threatens one moment and Hungary, when it still threatens Italy. It is an important message that I will send to the citizens, however difficult it is to live in Serbia, we have avoided the country's economic breakdown and have not experienced what the opposition wanted. All those who have told us, each session has begun – here, now that you have called an emergency election, here, now that you have a mandate, you must now face the fact that Mrs. President, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic has announced regular elections, whose call will be March 13th. As they deceived citizens about everything, from selling KIM because of the white shengen, from leaving Vojvodina because of the candidate status, from the fact that the CEFTA agreement will go to the Raška area, from not knowing what to do in this country, all your illusions have broken down and you look like some ice-driving shipwrecks on that ocean and then happily leaping – we are saved, here comes the Titanic, and that's the election call for you. You who say we're afraid of choices, as a member of the Resistance, know very well what fear is. Fear is what I saw this morning in the eyes of its political opponents when Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic said elections would be called because it is not easy to lose the election regularly. It may be easy to change the party, but you can't change the people. Finally, I must tell you that Serbia will repay its debts the moment a more normal economic climate is established throughout the world. Right now, we're at the stage of a major recession. None of us would be in charge of our own household. Each of us sees domestic behavior in times of crisis. As difficult as this may be, we've been host to this common state. Finally, I have to tell you, to you who are throwing, the future government will certainly have to make and adopt a strategy and this long-term external debt management strategy, we will have to look up to the experiences of Ante Markovic. It wasn't that long ago, just 22-23 years ago, when the SFRY of many at the time was economically on its knees with $22 billion in debt, which was very much at that time. Today, only two countries that have emerged from the SFRY, Croatia and Bosnia have an external debt of 90 billion euros, but I am here to take care of Serbia and take care of Serbia and therefore give you full assurances, following these elections, this government and the government that will continue their work will have no problem paying back that debt because Serbia needs little optimism. It's much better to be in charge of foreign commercial banks than with Joce Amsterdam. It is much better to build bridges over Ade with credit than to be made by Joca Amsterdam, the Legion and other exotic characters some politicians call investors. At the end of my presentation, I must say that in the evening of EU candidateship, when Serbia is about to step into this great family of Europeans, I must remember the first democratically elected prime minister, Dr Zoran Djindjic, to share the pride of DS members of the European torch and because today we finally see the end of the road that we started in 2000, there may be a lot of things that we share before 2000, but a lot of what we found in the future connects us and I am absolutely sure that what connects us will be what Serbia's citizens will be able to recognize, with the fact that no single dinar from these loans will end up in private pockets, but it will end where they need to and no one will do what they do to load on their back and carry them. It remains for the citizens of this country, it remains for our children and it remains as a monument of one time, a difficult time for which I am absolutely convinced that it is behind us, but I am absolutely convinced that this is a better European time ahead of us. We will share it together in the opposition, which is against the EU and we are in the EU's power. Once again, I take the opportunity to thank all those who believed in this European idea, and above all to mention once again the man who turned on the European torch and the European lighthouse, Zoran Djindjic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66085	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66086	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, Mr Minister, today we are talking about a set of laws that should contribute to the better lives of Serbian citizens. Just because we don't have a spare homeland, but only Serbia, after the time we've survived sanctions, war and now, in the time of the global economic crisis, we're looking at how to create a perspective primarily for generations that come behind us. It is very difficult to speak after Mr Milivojevic's inspired speech, but with a few sentences I will try to refer to those draft laws that are before us. It is because we are interested in improving the production of medicines by Galenika, precisely because we are interested in preserving JAT as a national carrier, precisely because we want to fix the situation with JAT Tech, and by building an Anex hangar 2 to bring it into work, maintenance and repairs for the already won type of Boing 737 aircraft and to equip ourselves with the purpose of conquering, maintaining and handling an Airbus 320 aircraft, which is why we are considering these bill proposals today, so that we can do better business and be competitive and that they can also be those companies that our Serbia who will be competitive and which will give a further perspective. We are ahead of us with the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia precisely on the basis of a loan contract for the construction of residential and business facilities at the site of the "Step Stepanovic" barracks in Belgrade. I think it's undeniable to help the construction industry, to make it possible to build new apartments, and those who understand better than me in the economy say that the construction dinar during the year is 12 times inverted. That is why it is necessary to give an additional impulse to improve the situation in Serbia on the two sides, to give a new injection for the construction industry and to allow, on the other hand, housing primarily for young people who face the establishment of a family and work for the benefit of our country. With regard to the completion of the bridge construction project on the Sava, I think it is clear to all of us that all access routes should be arranged and that there should be any improvement in traffic in the area of our capital, in the area of the city of Belgrade. This will lead not only to a better life for Belgrade's citizens, but also to further cost cuts precisely because of today's difficult transport in the Belgrade city. With regard to the draft law on the confirmation of the EPS guarantee contract Project for small hydropower plants, I would like to point out that this project includes the rehabilitation of 15 small hydropower plants operating in the EPS Public Enterprise system, as well as the construction of seven new small hydropower plants on existing water plants. Right after the rehabilitation and construction of these hydropower plants all of these will be managed by Užica. Not only from Belgrade, but also that part of Serbia should have its significance in Serbia's development in the future. Some of the bill's proposals are not quite clear for those watching today's direct television broadcast. So, among other things, when the draft law on confirming the framework loan agreement F/P 1739 between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia appears, we do not know that this project consists of the following project components - of establishing a centre of excellence in priority research areas, building a biomedical research park in Belgrade, building and equipping a agricultural biotechnology centre in Novi Sad, building a nano-science centre and new materials in Belgrade, then forming a scientific and technological park in Nis, building apartments for young researchers in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad. With regard to the other draft laws that were set before us, we also have a bill to confirm the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a borrower and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan as a lender, to finance the construction of the shares of Ljig-Boljkovci, Boljkovci-Takovo and Takovo-Preljina, highway E 763 in the Republic of Serbia. I think the whole part of Serbia knows how much it means to realize an investment like this, because only on the Ljig section, namely Donji Banjani-Boljkovci, should 22 bridges be made. On the next part of Bolovci-Taovo, 11 bridges and four bridges are to be built within the troops of the local road. At the end of the Takovo-Preljina road is made of 27 bridges, of which 20 on the highway route. This shows all the strategic commitment to building infrastructure that should contribute to Serbia's further development and later realisation of the entire highway in Corridor 11. As regards the draft law on the confirmation of a financial agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia, it is a matter of realising loans for small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises of medium-sized capitalisation, and of particular importance for those enterprises in the field of environmental protection, economics, knowledge, energy, infrastructure, including health and education, industry, trade and other services. Finally, in an attempt to bring up all the draft laws that are under consideration today, I would especially point to three draft laws. Two concern the granting of a guarantee in favour, by loan with Japanese partners and with regard to the improvement of production in Kostolc. I think it is clear to all of us why Kostolakvaž in the maintenance and development of the energy system at all in Serbia, and I would especially like to underline the importance of the promotion at the Termo power plant in Defence, meaning "Nikola Tesla" Termopower Plant. In addition to this being in agreement with the strategic documents of the Republic of Serbia, I think it is very important, apart from the concrete financial effects and efficiency of production, and finally planning a decommissioning for the "Nikola Tesla" Termopower Plant. All of us who have had and still have some problems with air pollution know exactly how much production in large industrial systems can burden the environment and how much it can burden the air, how much it can burden people's health, especially children. We just know that as by-products of production in thermal power plants, not only come from sulfur, which is an unpleasant smell, but also from nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide and powder matter, these are those tiny particles that come into the lungs and that remain there permanently, which cause various diseases of dispersing organs, which can also cause cancerous diseases and which today-to-morrow can be burdened again by the budget of the Republic of Serbia in terms of human health management. That's why I think we have enough reason to support these bill proposals in the voting day. Finally, since I come from Pancheva, and today, within the agenda and the draft law on the validation of a financial contract in the improvement of judicial bodies between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, I must say, and you all have this in the material, on the 72nd and 73rd sides of the material, except for the significant projects of the renovation of the Court of Justice, then, the construction of a new office for prosecutors, bearing in mind and reform of the judicial system, then the construction of a new facility, the wings at the site of the existing Special Court in Statsk, what is important for my fellow citizens, is that in the list of sub-projects, it means in the list of 16 sub-projects, there is also the reconstruction and improvement of the facility for the Supreme Court in Pancheva and the building of a criminal court, and not only because it will improve the situation in Pancheva, but because we are going to improve these 13th of Serbia. That's why I'm asking you to support these bill proposals in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66087	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. In accordance with Article 96 of our Rules of Procedure, the word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66088	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary is gone, but I hope he comes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that this debate has passed in one misunderstanding of MPs of the ruling coalition on matter. Is it possible that someone thinks we're against saving Galenika by criticizing the government's loan? How is that possible? Is it possible to twist facts like that? We're talking about something completely different, and that's quite another -- there's an incredible rate of borrowing, there's an incredible ease of borrowing, and someone has to pay back that money. When they were warned of such things and were told that the Republic of Serbia's budget was wasteful, destroying and destroying, this salami laughed at such remarks. When such irregularities are observed and reacted to them, the state's reaction is soft, poor or nothing. Since there is already one example of the public in terms of loans being tried as a method, and this is how it is - when citizens can't repay that credit because they're over-indebted, because they've lost their jobs, because their salaries have been reduced, then they're offered a loan to refinance, so when they can't pay off that credit, then the state hires on behalf of the debtor's trustee, to rob the citizens of the property, so that they can't settle the trustee. I fear that the same situation with the state is similar to or the same, with the difference that the applicant or trustee of these debts is the EU, and I think that the debtor of the debt will be the NATO Pact. This is the situation in the state of Serbia. At the same time, corruption is emerging in the country, in all forms, which is petty, which is systematic. I expected after the first part of the debate, in the afternoon, that the government's representative would answer some questions, but apparently answers to those questions the government's representative either didn't know them, or he couldn't answer those questions. We, Mr. Minister, at least I was talking about a loan related to the payment of debts from the state-owned company Galenika, and I think you're familiar, probably unlike Mr. Dulic, although he's a doctor, with that problem. You see, Mr. Minister, while Galenike's director was Mr. Aleksandar Pradic, he left 32m euros on the bill. I'm talking about the end of 2008. How can that debt come to 14m euros within two years? How is that possible? The press mentions a variety of stories, and curriculous differences, and the rise of credit for the new factory, etc., but in that it was forgotten or deliberately kept silent, that the loan has a grace period for which we do not know what it is. How is it possible for the president, or director of the Galenika, to be president of the Management Board of a wholesaler corporation before entering the post? How can a statue of an unknown author be paid 30,000 euros in this Galenica? How is it possible to pay one wholesaler a fee of 4.5% because Galenika does not buy drugs directly from importers, but via wholesalerry? How can several cars cost several tens of thousands of euros be purchased? The bottom line of my story is that you have loaded Serbian citizens with such politics and such behaviour to repay credit. That's why there's a shortage of drugs. And when that question is asked, either there is no answer, or the answer is to throw dust to the entire assembly and to the entire people in Serbia. What happened to Torlak? How many credits have gone to Torlak? How far did he get? You're familiar with the vaccine affair. Why aren't these vaccines produced in Torlak? What branch is Torlak on? Very low branches, Mr. Minister, precisely because of this kind of policy. These are SPS personnel – Director of Galenika, Management Board, members of the Management Board. Where did you get all this debt? I didn't get an answer for those questions. When I talked about corruption, a World Bank survey came out. Serbia is third in health corruption. Mr. Minister, Tajikistan and Moldova are ahead of Serbia, the only two countries, and Serbia is in third place by corruption -- systemically. When we talk about these things, the Serbian government responded to the European questionnaire. That is also the question for MPs of the ruling coalition – in Chapter 23 the question 36 answered that health comes first in corruption. This is the answer where the debts are from what they came from. Finally, the laws adopted, the Health Protection Act, the Health Insurance Act, the Chamber Law contains elements of corruption - renting room space, additional work, denying basic rights to health care, what is guaranteed both by the Constitution and the Health Insurance Act. What's the state's reaction? Not at all. It's quite clear what it is. When you look at the incomes of the RZO, you see one big disproportionate. As GDP falls in Serbia and is below zero, so far RZO's work is growing. How is that possible, Mr. Minister? What kind of economic logic is that? What economist can say that's okay? When you ask the question of how these funds are spent and how, by which channels, how many health institutions they receive, how many employees in Serbia's health system, there is no answer. That's why the situation in Galenika is like that, and that's why we criticise this government move, not considering it not necessary to preserve Galenika as a resource. I told you that at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, when the director of Galenika was Mr. Aleksandar Pradic, he left 32m euros at the expense of the government, precisely because we felt that Galenika was strategically important for Serbia, because of the production of medicines. It obviously didn't matter to someone, but with the change of government he brought "Galenik" to very low branches, to sell it the way sugars might have been sold – for two or three euros. That was the goal of this new government, and it's clear to us. That's not how he treats the country. Here from MPs of the ruling coalition, we talked about Central Prison and the Central Committee, but you know, you should always go from yourself and maybe go from facts to the VIP salon at "Nikola Tesla" Airport and the golden spoon, which may have been melted into gold in the Mayanpek jewelery.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66089	Thank you. Is there anyone else who hasn't used the right of Article 96? Rules of Procedure, does he want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no more statements on the lists of MPs, nor has anyone reported who has not exercised his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principle and uniform search. We move on to a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Economic and Technological Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) on the granting of the status of associated membership as a stage preceding membership in CERN; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe on the financing of the project "Social Inclusion Education"; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum on Understanding between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Action Programme for Lifelong Learning (2007-2013) Agreement establishing a European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in Maritime Traffic; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Long-term Organic Contaminating Substances of the 1979 Convention on Transboundary Air Contamination at Large Distances of 1979; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Heavy Metals under the Convention on Transboundary Contamination of Air at Large Distances of 1979; Proposal for a Law on Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union on the establishment of a Framework for the Participation of the European Union in Crisis Operations of the European Union, with Declarations of the Republic of Serbia and the Member States of the European Union on the Security of the Laws of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of Serbia on the Republic to the Republic to the Convention on the Europeans, and the Convention on the Europeans's on the Security of Serbia's need to the European Union in the Convention on the European Union's Security of the European Union in the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Law on the Convention on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Security and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Security of the Laws, and the Laws, and on Security of the Laws, and on Security of the Security of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in the context of a joint single search on points 14 to 27 of the agenda, I have also invited the sittings, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Mr. Zarko Obradović and Mr. Milutin Mrkonjic, to attend and Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science, Miodrag Miljković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, Ivan Mrkić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I invited Tanja Misevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Jelena Marjanović, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Prof. Dr. Snežan Pajović, Assistant Minister of Security and Science, Dr. Tinja Mišak-Cerović, Assistant Minister of Defence and Science, Mr. Mr. Dr. Dr. Snjeljnažnović, Deputy Minister of Security, Deputy Minister of Security, Deputy Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Zagreb, Mr. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on proposals for the agenda for items 14 to 27 and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and that it is allocated to the representative group For European Serbia for one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the parliamentary group Forward Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the parliamentary group PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Donka Banovic, MP of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica; MP Boris Aleksic, MP. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Donka Banovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66090	Thank you, Madam President. As you have read, citizens have heard, and we know that within this point there are even 15 and 16 legal proposals. I don't have time to look back on a large number of these suggestions. That is why I will mainly talk about the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU on establishing a framework for the participation of the Republic of Serbia in EU crisis management operations, with statements by the Republic of Serbia and EU Member States on the waiver of claims. Since I will mainly talk about this bill, I am sorry that no one from the Department of Defense found fit to be in the National Assembly today when this agreement is discussed. At first, you said that you and how you did your duty, or invited people from the Ministry of Defense, but they didn't find it appropriate to come here today. The agreement that the Republic of Serbia signed with the EU was signed last June 8, 2011 and signed on behalf of the Republic of Serbia by Vuk Jeremic, foreign minister and, on behalf of the EU, Vensan Decer. The agreement sets out all the conditions under which the Republic of Serbia can participate in various EU-shaped operations. These missions or operations are formed to manage EU crises in various countries and regions around the world. In February last year, we discussed an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2011. At the beginning of the year, we discussed the involvement of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in all multinational operations. At that time, Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac announced the signing of this agreement, and I will read from the stenographic notes what he said about this agreement and the participation of members of the Republic of Serbia in missions forming the EU. He then said, "What is novelty and what is foreseen by this plan, that is, this agreement, and I hope that it will enter into realisation after signing an agreement with the EU... "—what's done—"... This is the possibility of participation in the EU's first missions and it will certainly be one of the historical facts, given that the former Yugoslavia and the current Serbia have been participating until now, only in UN missions. These missions I'm negotiating are missions in which we would participate symbolically, so EU missions, with fewer representatives of our army, but symbolism is so much bigger, which is the first time we've participated in EU-led missions. ". So he also told us something that we all know very well here, which is that Serbian citizens participated in UN-led missions and operations, and never before in the missions formed to manage EU crises. We of the DSS believe that this is the way to stay, that forces and members of the Republic of Serbia should exclusively participate in UN-led missions, not the EU and NATO. In the light of this agreement, it is also stated that the EU, I guess to be impressed, has close co-operation, as if we don't know, with organisations such as NATO, the UN, the OSCE, etc., that at this point there are 24 different operations, that seven of these missions, military missions, that one civil war, mixed and that such missions are in the world today are 16, which are so-called. civilian missions. We have also received information in the explanation, some civilian missions have been listed, so it lists the EU civilian mission called "Eufor", which is in BiH, "Eupol kops" in Palestine, "Eum" in Georgia, "Eujast Lex" in Iraq, "Eutm" in Somalia, and mentions the Eulex mission that is the most numerous, and thus the most expensive civilian mission that the EU has ever formed and deployed. Some estimates are that even today some 3,000 people are deployed in our southern province, a civilian mission so there are judges, police officers, etc. It is certainly the most expensive mission, but the mission, according to Martti Ahtisaari's plan, is building a legal state, under the allegations, building the institutions of the Republic of Kosovo. The European Parliament itself and commissions that are considering the results of the Eulex mission so far are talking about very poor results, that there is no "p" from the rule of law. So, only EULEX has so far been very successful when it comes to building an independent Kosovo. As for that part of their mission and goal, they are very successful. Therefore, the experience that Serbia and Serbian citizens have with the KIM EULEX mission should indeed be sufficient reason for MPs of this assembly not to vote in favour of this bill, or for this agreement. The acceptance of the Eulex mission and the deployment of EU experts in KIM territory was a major mistake made in 2008, when the government came to work. The DSS has persistently warned, so since 2008, we have warned that Serbia must not accept this mission because its primary objective, which we see is to work well, create and strengthen an independent state of Kosovo. Then you, I suppose, to calm the citizens of Serbia and the opposition, spoke about how you agreed and Eulex promised to be neutral when it comes to Kosovo's status. So it was a story through the media for domestic use. Eulex at no time promised to be neutral, nor neutral. It's a project from Marty Ahtisaari's plan. What did this Eulex mission provide? After three or four years, the Eulex mission provided the Albanians with another country in the Balkans. What is Boris Tadic, along with Eulex, and what is his brilliant and imaginative negotiator named Borislav, there is also great irony that someone named Borislav is so easy to surrender, what has EULEX brought with them to Serbia? Well, the Serbian people were provided with a star by EULEX along with this authority and provided for footnote. So, Albanians of the two states, Serbs got a star and footnote. I don't know if you know, it would be funny if it wasn't sad, if the citizens were talking about that star as a snowflake, because Edith Tahiri said yesterday that it was one snowflake that would disappear with the melting of snow. So, the star next to Kosovo's words is the result of Borislav Stefanovic's negotiations. I guess they also heard that this ruling coalition loves stars very much, that we will give everything for those stars on the EU flag, so when we see a star, no more problems, Serbs are satisfied. So, it is true that Serbia has not recognised Kosovo, but it is true that Serbia has recognised Kosovo with a star and thus has agreed that Kosovo's star can join international and regional organisations, so one day a deputy foreign minister named Petrit Selimi has said that the agreement that Belgrade and Pristina have reached will allow Kosovo to become a full member, so not an observer, in 36 regional initiatives. They also plan to achieve this model, or formula for regional representation, to benefit from membership and other international organisations. I'm afraid if this power lasts a little longer, you'll fight to make Kosovo a member of the UN. That's one of the results of the Eulex mission. What are the other results of the EU's action, or the Eulex mission to KIM? For example, Eulex complained to the Serbian government that he could not carry out all his activities, or his activities in northern Kosovo, that they were disabled, that Serbs living in northern Kosovo would not cooperate with them, to raise some barricades, etc. And then the Serbian government decided to hire the Serbian gendarmes, but of course provide them with phantoms, don't let them be remembered, or they're ashamed, of course they're ashamed of what they've done, but then, in order for EULEX not to be dissatisfied, it can work on the entire KIM territory, we've provided the gendarmes there to disperse people who sit in barricades for days and nights, guarding their houses and their own backyards, but God forbid that the administrative line becomes not even the right limit. What else has the EU resented us, what else does Eulex hold against us, and we're going to hurry up and fix it? They resent the existence of Serbian institutions in northern Kosovo, they call those institutions "a parallel". I don't call them that, I call them Serbian institutions. They resent it and ask us to fix it and we have terrible announcements coming from this House that neither parliamentary nor local elections will be held in the north of KiM. If that happens, then the parliament of the Republic of Serbia will indeed abolish the Serbian institutions at KIM. So what the EU is looking for, what Eulex is looking for, we hurry to meet and see how much it costs us. The presidents of EU Member States should not be angry. Don't let us anger Angela Merkel, or God of Guido Westerwelle, who was in Belgrade the night before Borislav Stefanovic's shameful agreement with Edith Tahiri, that he might have increased the pressure a little. Therefore, because of the incredible damage and pressure that Serbia and its citizens have suffered from the EU and its mission called Eulex, which has been doing and working on KIM for the last three years, the DSS that the only time is political and military Serbia, the path of neutrality, and therefore this National Assembly must not vote this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66091	Thank you. I give my word to MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66092	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as usual, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has put a large number of draft laws on the agenda within the same point. Many of them have absolutely nothing to do with each other, and here we have really important documents concerning, on the one hand, science, and on the other hand, the broad areas of security of the Republic of Serbia and international military alliances. It is truly a wonder that no one from the Ministry of Defence has come because as the SRS will show some of these draft laws are the introduction of the Republic of Serbia to a small NATO pact door. We'll show it unequivocally today. When it comes to the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU establishing a framework for the participation of the Republic of Serbia in EU crisis management operations, we have a large number of provisions and concrete facts that suggest that by accepting this bill, the Republic of Serbia is slowly approaching and entering a criminally later solder that causes crises around the world, after which it tries to control them, i.e. To draw the maximum by robbing nations that had previously destroyed their military force. The EU is monitoring the NATO Pact rate, and it is indeed unquestionable. What is very interesting, the European Union crisis management mission is also missions in the Congo, but the mission they say in Kosovo is to think of Eulex, I remind you that EU prosecutor Eulexa Anita Amin accuses Serbs from northern Kosovo of terrorism, that EULEX promotes Hashim Thaci, Hashim Thaci, who is listed in the report by Dick Marty as the person responsible for all crimes of the Kosovo and Metohija drug mafia, and also suspected of trafficking in human organs, i.e. He participated in human organs trafficking. There are no more serious crimes than these, and Eulex promotes this criminal terrorist power, and now the Republic of Serbia will formally start co-operation with such a one mission, possibly in Kosovo and Metohija to help EULEX create a Cypriot drug state. It's just unimaginable. I remind you that in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija there is also the US military base Bonsteel, where representatives of the European Parliament in 2006, who conducted an investigation into secret CIA prisons, were forbidden to visit, enter, and make sure that all Americans held at Bonsteel base, who they tortured, killed, and what they did in Bonstille. We have concrete data that there have also been Serb prisoners on several occasions, which is really scary. But here is the specific thing about the bill on co-operation with the European Union on crisis management. At the very beginning, the second point says the European Union is deciding whether it will call on third countries to participate in EU crisis management operations. Conditions regarding the participation of the Republic of Serbia in EU crisis management operations should be established by a subsequent agreement, which we do not have and do not know what it will look like, which is a major problem. Such an agreement should not affect the independence of the European Union in decision-making. What does this mean? Here we are slowly entering this legal matter where the European Union will decide how the Serb army will be used and what Serbian soldiers and civilian representatives will do, as it depends on whether it is a civilian crisis management mission, or a military mission concerning the management of EU crises. Article 3 of the Staff and Force Status says that the Republic of Serbia will be obliged to respond to any claims related to EU crisis management operations, which encourage or concern any member of its staff. The Republic of Serbia undertakes to make a statement on the refusal of lawsuits against any state participating in European Union operations. This means, if a member of a foreign army kills a Serb soldier or citizen of the Republic of Serbia that Serbia will drop the lawsuit, that it will not even mention it, that it will simply go over it. Not to mention the potential destruction of property, etc. Furthermore, classified data are being established, and the Republic of Serbia will take appropriate measures to protect the European Union's classified data, but since there is a special bill we will talk about later. So, like I said, there's a civilian and military component, it's interesting that you're predicting a chain of command. This is Article 6. - national authorities transfer operational control to the European Union. So, here's the Army of the Republic of Serbia will control, commanding it, let's say some criminal who participated in NATO's 1999 NATO pact aggression and who killed the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Head of Mission shall assume responsibility and exercise command and control, that is, point 4). We also have a financial aspect. Here it is determined in Article 7 of the financial responsibility of the Republic of Serbia, for any damage to those missions. Now, on the one hand, Serbia is denying a lawsuit against other Member States, and on the other hand, Serbia must pay any damage its citizens may cause. Now imagine what that looks like. A formula is also introduced whereby EU missions will be allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget for gross national income. Serbia undertakes to allocate and allocate huge funds to and from the European Union, in order for the EU to control the crises its Member States are causing around the world. In Congo, 4.200,000 people were killed so that companies from the European Union would have materials for the production of mobile phones, because there are large mines of these minerals right now. So 4,200,000 people. In KIM, we all know what they did, what they do with Serbs from day to day, how many Serbs died, how many medieval monasteries were destroyed, how many people were expelled. These are the missions of the European Union and the crises they have caused themselves. It is also confirmed in Article 10 of the military mission chain, where it is said explicitly in point 2) -- that national authorities will transfer operational and tactical command and or control of their forces and personnel to the EU Operation Commander. It also redefines the financial aspect of Article 11 and obliges the Republic of Serbia to pay the European Union a large amount of money, etc., and thus closer. Finally, we have one statement by the EU Member States, a text of a statement applicable to the Republic of Serbia and a smut of reasoning, a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, the reasons for the adoption of this law and a large number of EU missions, primarily the military ones listed here, look at their mission in Georgia. They deliberately endanger the interests of the Russian Federation, the EU mission and now Serbia should help. Is it like when they were selling, when the pro-Western authorities in Belgrade were selling guns to Georgia? So before Georgia committed aggression on South Ossetia and Abkhazia, when Sutanovac here in the Assembly said, the Republic of Serbia had to somehow earn money, the Ministry of Defence, by selling weapons to Georgia so that they would kill Russians. Now you are also committed to helping such EU missions in Georgia, Iraq, Palestine, where they follow the interests of the United States fully. To show you that EU missions are part of the NATO Pact and that they are co-ordinated with the NATO Pact, we will use NATO Pact and European Union documentation, primarily the 2003 European Security Strategy, which explicitly states that the US has played and played a key role in the security of the EU, and is of special importance to the NATO Pact. It's in the opening part. Also, their strategy and security states that transatlantic ties are the basis of each EU action and that the NATO Pact plays a key role there. They also call for an agreement between the EU and the NATO Pact, when it comes to military operations and the rules of Berlin plus. I'll talk about it later, but I hope you understand. When it comes to EU regulations and crisis management, there are also a number of EU documents, as well as their 2008 crisis management strategy, which also discusses the irreplaceable role of the NATO Pact, particularly within the framework of the legal framework, as regards the EU crisis management mission. NATO is said to be the backbone of the NATO Pact, the strength and capacity of the NATO Pact, which is on page 21. Interesting for you, since you probably didn't read it, and I mean first of all the representatives of the Ministry of Defence who had to see it on the old 22nd of this document are talking about the aggression of the NATO Pact to the SRJ in 1999. It says -- that EU members interpreted the UN Charter so that it was allowed to deploy peacekeeping troops in some territory, the territory of a country, without explicit express approval of the UN Security Council. See what you agree to when you pass one of these laws. They talk about what NATO said about the 1999 bombing, the NATO Pact's aggression against the SRJ, and say it had broad support in the EU. This is stated in their basic document on crisis management. So they support what the NATO Pact did in 1999, and how it would not be if key EU countries participated in it. Interestingly on page 28 of this document, which is the basis for EU crisis management operations, it is said that these crisis management operations require and that NATO Pact headquarters and NATO pact infrastructure can be used. So, it's not at all disputed with them. Also, on page 31 of this document, they state that they can be used and that NATO's pact should be used to plan crisis management operations. So, all we've been telling you, when it comes to slowly introducing Serbia into the NATO Pact into this criminal organisation, is that this government is confirmed unequivocally on the basis of these documents. What is in other provisions adopted by the EU? There is a NATO pact declaration and an EU that was brought in December 2002, as well as a crisis management operation. He says this - two organisations welcome the strategic partnership between the EU and NATO, and in the area of crisis management based on common values, indivisibility of our security, determination in the fight against the challenges of the new century. What does it look like we saw in 1999? Today, citizens of Serbia die from radiation-deprived uranium and toss various poisons that NATO has delivered to Serbia in 1999, and data on these toxins can be found in the interview of Spanish pilot Adolf Luis Delaros, who testified about it because he participated in the aggression. I mentioned the rules Berlin plus. What do the rules Berlin plus say? The Berlin plus agreement is based on the knowledge that NATO's pact member states and the EU have only one set of armed forces at their disposal. What does that mean? There's no duplication of the army, no duplication of command. You are slowly entering the NATO Pact, because NATO is looking after the EU's security pact. In fact, it manages some kind of EU armed force. So, in all operations, the EU uses the capabilities and resources of the NATO Pact. The EU has been provided with access to NATO's planning capacities, etc. In particular, co-operation in the Balkans, key co-operation between the EU and the NATO Pact in the Balkans, is being singled out. How does such cooperation look? That's clear. They are in favour of creating an independent state on KIM and dispersing Serbia. In addition, they defend the worst criminals, drug traffickers, human organs traffickers in KIM, and how could not if the NATO-based base in Afghanistan is supplied with Cypriot heroin terrorists that are further distributed to Europe. They make a lot of money, a huge amount of money, those criminals from the NATO Pact, Ship's terrorists, separatists, and others. The official EU site says one of the key operations is crisis management of Kosovo. By the way, speaking of Eulex, it's interesting that their website, the website, is located on a server in Albania that can also see anyone visiting the Eulex website. So they are absolutely in the role of creating a great Albania and finding friends there, not in Serbia. It is interesting that funds are allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget to promote such bad legal proposals, to promote proposals that are contrary to some of the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, notably the Constitution and the declared neutrality. So Dragan Sutanovac published on his website in the number 152 of the "Defense" "Trainings for Worms". So he didn't know how to write Serbia, so he wrote a hose. However, in the text itself it is corrected, there is no mistake in the text "Nutrality in the 21st Century", "Train for Serbia". Dragan Sutanovac in the "Defense" list, which is financed from the Republika Srpska budget, stands out. His experts say neutrality is bad for Serbia that NATO's pact and the EU should be adhered to. That is the stance, but it was to be expected from Minister Sutanovac, as he welcomed the removal of Serbian barricades in the north of KIM. He welcomed the beating of Serbian children, who kept the barricades, by the gendarmes under phantoms. The Shutanovac said that on February 24th...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66093	Please, no one in the Serbian government or among the MPs welcomes the beating of Serbian children. Please don't. I totally understand that you're sending political messages, but you're taking care of the dignity of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66094	Of course, on February 23rd, the gendarmes attacked the barricades and destroyed the tents and the men who protected the barricades. They had fantasized phantoms. There are a lot of witnesses who talk about it, there's a video. That was February 23rd. February 24th Dragan Sutanovac welcomes the action to remove barricades in the interests of Serbs. In February 25th, Hashim Thaci, who beats and arrests Serbs in the area of Gjilan and binds a 16-year-old child with foxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66095	Thank you. The People's MP, Hope Kolundji, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66096	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is difficult to argue with those who have been leading the policy of isolationalism for 20 years, confrontations with the world, confronting everything that is today the modern world. Try to turn Serbia into an isolated island, a ghetto that will be at war depending on how they estimate that day or that month, that year as one of the biggest enemies in the world. I don't think there's any need to argue with that. The results of that policy we've seen, the citizens know it as well. What is important for Serbian citizens is that they support the policy that will bring Serbia into contact with the world, which will reconcile it with the world, find the modality for Serbia to realise its interests in the world, however imperfect it may be. If Serbia's interest in living in a peaceful environment and being part of a process that provides stable development and peace in the region, then certainly joining global security concepts is one of the key interests for all citizens of Serbia. In this regard, we have several ratifications on the agenda today, but I see that the greatest attention and most serious abuse has been experienced by a single document, an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU establishing a framework for the participation of the Republic of Serbia in EU crisis management operations. It is also one of the security organisations that is trying to, using the capacities of all countries, provide equal conditions for the prosperity and progress of all these countries while at the same time ensuring peace in the entire area in which it operates. It is interesting that it is by those who believe that Serbia should turn its back on a natural environment and, above all, the EU and the countries that make up the EU and I fully support it and I think they have the right to say that they advocate some alliances and special alliances with some other countries, but I just want to remind them that they are in the process of joining this agreement and those countries that they would prefer us to be close to them, and less with those with whom the same countries are negotiating today, and so does Russia and China and many other countries, India, Japan and so on. So, if we are already talking about this kind of alliance being bad for Serbia, then we should also answer the question of how it is possible for Serbia to be bad, and for all countries that want to join the alliance is good. How is it possible that all countries of the world find their interest in accessing such security structures, and that there are some invisible individuals only known reasons why only Serbia should not join such alliances. Of course, I don't have any problem with the fact that someone's worried that it might not be good, but it's a big problem if they're cheating on the public. So here are the claims that Serbia has accepted an unequal relationship in this alliance and now I want to go through the text, because I think the best ally is the fact that it's written here and not how someone skips the fact, and it's talking about what he thinks sounds good. So the Republic of Serbia can accept the EU's call, it doesn't have to. The next Article 4 says the agreement should not affect EU independence in decision-making and should not prejudge the decisions of the Republic of Serbia on its participation. So it is up to Serbia to decide whether or not it wants to and whether it is in its interest or not to join such alliances after the EU decides to invite the Republic of Serbia to participate in the EU crisis management operation and since the Republic of Serbia decides whether to participate. That's what the text says. So Serbia decides whether it will or will not participate. What's also mistranslated here to the public is who's in charge and who's in charge. The status of personnel participating in headquarters or command elements located outside the countries in which EU crisis management operations are carried out will be regulated by arrangements between headquarters and related commands, elements and the Republic of Serbia. Without prejudice to the Status of Forces Agreement, the Republic of Serbia has jurisdiction over its personnel participating in EU crisis management operations. The Republic of Serbia will be obliged to respond to any actions related to participation in operations, but the Republic of Serbia will be responsible for taking measures, particularly legal or disciplinary against any member of its staff in accordance with its laws. So no one else will do it for her. It is said that the Republic of Serbia undertakes to make a statement on the waiver of the suit, but also says in the next member that the EU is committed to EU member states to make a statement on the denunciation of the lawsuit. So this is about reciprocity and a partnership where both sides have equal rights, equal jurisdiction and equal obligations. Therefore, Article 6, chain of command, point 2), all personnel shall remain under full control of their national authorities. That's the point. The Republic of Serbia will have the same rights and obligations regarding day-to-day operation management, as well as EU member states participating in the operation. The European Union will decide on the completion of the operation after consulting the Republic of Serbia. I repeat again, there may be a policy of someone's that we close ourselves here and not communicate with the world, that we have a little window and that through that window we look at one side of the world, and that's the policy that those who represent it in front of the citizens are making. They are citizens who are judged by that policy, and, by chance, citizens do not support that policy. What we will get as a confirmation very quickly is the choices where, quite clearly, such a policy in Serbia will forever be the past, but it is not the problem that someone is pushing for this policy and running for such a policy in front of Serbian citizens, because Serbian citizens are judges for such a policy and they will judge it, the problem is that in the absence of arguments for such policy, they resort to falsifying facts and resorting to what is false. That's actually the only problem with topics like this. Therefore, the chain of command, Article 10, all forces and personnel involved in the EU military crisis management operation will remain under the full control of their national authorities. It can neither be read nor interpreted. One single conclusion can be drawn from this, a policy that has no arguments can once fool citizens and deceive them in the past, maybe another time, but it can't be countless times. So I think the only thing that is really inadmissible is that some try to deceive and falsify the fact that they gain some kind of political point, but what I think is really inadmissible is that these points are trying to catch up with the most senseless, without any reason to accuse the people who are leading the country responsible, who are taking care of what the interests of the Serbian citizens are and who, after all, are doing this job here, are willing to say to parliament – this is what we deeply believe is best for the citizens of Serbia. Being isolated, fighting with the world is no solution for Serbian citizens. Being part of a single system, looking for a way to communicate with this world, to find ways to achieve the interests of Serbian citizens is a policy that is responsible. Every other policy, except for its unseriousness, is not even responsible for the citizens to whom it is offered. Thank you very much. (Boris Aleksic, from the site: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66097	Thank you. Mr. Alexic, you have no right to a replica. Obviously, two completely opposite concepts have been presented and there's no reason to explain anything to each other. We are moving to work according to the schedule of MPs who have applied for a word in this joint single search. I give my word to MP Milic Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66098	Thank you, Madam President. I'd just like to get a heads-up until it's a television broadcast. (President: Television transmission is up to 1900 hours. Thank you. The second item in front of the MPs of the National Assembly of Serbia is one quite a mix of everything and everything. There are also some loans, and I don't understand why they weren't put in this part of the previous, at first point, where it was just about the loans. There is something about air traffic co-operation, there are several points concerning security procedures for the exchange and protection of classified information between the Republic of Serbia and the EU, there is something about education, something about ecology. So it's very difficult to make a rational overview of all of this that you've offered us here on this table. First of all, I'm going to talk about these parts of the Ecology, so the proposal for a protocol on long-term organic polluting substances with the 1979 Convention on Transboundary Air Contamination, which is interesting also from 1979, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on Heavy Metals, along with the Convention on Transboundary Air Contamination at Large Distances, also from 1979. Who would have thought that in 1979, we'd be talking about the year 1999 when our allies, today's friends, these heavy metals and the poor uranium so richly enriched us. An ecological fairy tale about Serbia as a clean and green country, which has passed a large number of environmental laws that should protect the environment in Serbia, which has a special ministry dealing with it, which has formed countless directives that should be dealt with in this business, also countless funds that take over the ministry's work, which should also be done by the ministry. It is all a large legal framework that could be viewed within this ecological fairy tale that Minister Dulic has been telling us for four years, visiting Serbian cities, sometimes in his dressing room, and now increasingly in new leather jackets, with new leather bags, which he bought from Serbian citizens' money, without tendering. The question is whether he needs, right now, I'm not sure that in this cold that's been here, something that skin can help him. So, all this ecological fairy tale that's being told to Serbian citizens has its own, and how it's not going to end up as the fairy tale ends with some good hepiende for Serbian citizens, and what I'm talking about, as far as these two conventions are concerned, it's all in what exactly this ministry is, and this is exactly the minister that puts into perspective, and that's the report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Serbia. I want to connect these two conventions and what the facts are here, so let's see how we can cross these two things and how we can cooperate. Speaking of these ecological fairy tales, it seems that here in this Assembly today many other fairy tales speak and it is simply impossible for Serbian citizens to believe in a fairy tale of a stable country when today the euro is 110.19 dinars, when the government that owed 55 euros per second reached its 47% of GDP. I'm sorry, these are the data that appears from the experts, so not from the government, but from the experts. Or, when we talk about this fairy tale of fighting corruption, and we get information from international research houses, which say Serbia keeps falling on that corruption list, it is currently 85 on that list. Or, how can you believe the fairy tale of the Serbian government being very good at this crisis, and one million people are starving, many of them are fed in folk cuisines, and of those millions are 400,000 children? The tale of 200,000 new jobs has already been completely exploited and completed. Well, I talk about banks all the time, and I want to talk about fairy tales. The latest fairy tale is in this star, a footnote, which is said today to turn someone into a snowflake that is lost in winter days, but in fact about which and how well it speaks the comment of Hillary Clinton, another informed friend of this ruling coalition, who says nicely – this agreement makes Kosovo an independent state that has the right to represent itself and has the right to conclude international agreements. That's what Hillary Clinton says, and you say she's lying. Let's go back to this ecological fairy tale of ours. Today we ratify these two bill proposals that have a problem being applied because we have several studies of various environmental organisations dealing with this topic, one of them is Ecogea, which says that heavy metals, ash from thermal power plants, waste from slaughterhouses, and that's where I'm going to stop and remind you. Any of you watching Eco Patrol? I wish the minister were here, so let's talk a little bit, what's going on with the garbage from the slaughterhouse? One of the last shows of Eco Patrol is from my Colubary County, from a village located near Ub, where one meat factory, one slaughterhouse that deals with processing work, all the insides and all the animal waste brings and throws out a meadow, where people who get that food are collected, these insides of which are many of the sick animals, feed dogs, and then we come into a situation where we buy from these dog breeders, not knowing what they're carrying and what's going to happen next. So we have a law that clearly and precisely speaks about how to store slaughterhouse waste. How is it possible that this law is not applied and that everyone, including inspections, is in this game, because the man who started the whole story claims to have a lot of pressure from veterinary inspections to keep quiet, to threaten him in various ways. I do not want to mention the way pesticides are treated in agriculture and the way Serbian citizens can drive cars that are completely persistent and polluting the environment. The survey says that Serbia's Danube industry annually pours as many as 72,000 tons of nitrogen and 7,000 tonnes of phosphorus, placing Serbia third on the top of the list of polluters of the large river. Of course, the poisons released here poison Serbian citizens through land and water, but no one is talking about it. I must say that in Serbia today, with all the pomp accompanied by Oliver Dulic, on all the media, paying strong money from Serbian citizens to present his billboards and various campaigns representing the work of his ministry, which is actually very small, that it is almost inconspicuous, only five to ten percent of the waste water is being cleaned up today in Serbia. Everything else is poured into the water through the sewer, which is then used for drinking. Em, we've got a little processing and water treatment facility. Half of them don't use it at all. The newest ones that only open today work that day, while the minister and his assistants come to take pictures and never work again. I can tell you about five that have been open in the last year. The important thing is that the minister is here, they took pictures, now everything's fine. There are 375 contaminated land locations in Serbia, where the value of polluting matter in the land is above the allowed limit. Even a fifth of the land surveyed in certain parts of Serbia contains one or more pollutants in excess of the maximum allowed. I'm not talking about those parts that suffered from NATO bombing. These parts are best talked about by the increase in the disease in this Serbia, but no one realizes that it speaks publicly. This is the data from this report. It is 17% of the land samples from around Belgrade, the part of Šumadija and Pomorava. In the valley of Morava, this is what is worrying, the land is polluted with nickel, chromium, arsenic and lead. As far as I know, that's where you live from agriculture. The land in the Kolubara Valley is burdened with high levels of lead, chromium and nickel. Also, agricultural land. Do we have a law on this? The few MPs who are interested in this area know that we have laws on this and how we have it, that they are brought here in packages smaller or larger, they have never been spoken of openly and precisely. What's the deal with them? Do they recognize contaminants? The laws recognize, but those who need to enforce polluter laws don't recognize. The laws of punishment for polluters are very large, but they are not among those who are punished. So the law doesn't apply. Now the question I want to talk about is air. This is one of the topics set out in these two conventions, i.e. the bill. A report on the state of the environment, the one I'm about to call and which is probably big, so people think that we don't read it, recognizes three levels of pollution, three categories of quality air in Serbia. Excess air pollution, and this is about air in Nis, Novi Sad, Bor, Užica, Zrenjanin. Then, moderate pollution -- Belgrade and Panchevo. Here's Panchevo jumps and the city is no longer polluted. This Pančevci knows especially well how unpolluted and how accurate this report is. And then, slight air pollution, where the air is clean. These are interesting cities - Valjevo, Sabac, Kruševac, Vranje and the largest number of towns in Serbia. I'm from Valjev. While these cold days were when very many individual boiler rooms worked, I can also talk about thousands, citizens of Valev who otherwise have clean air, according to the report, could only breathe like fish, with tissues, and the whole city was in a complete cloud of smog. So much for the results and what it says here. Not to mention, as an MP on the media, they asked me -- how is it possible that we live in such a city and have such beautiful reports on paper? I told them – another fairy tale by Mr. Dulic, as well as that fairy tale about the fact that in the middle of the city of Valjev, in the center of the city of Valjev, waste of dangerous garbage should be made. That's the fairy tale from the beginning of the story. It's beautiful, but it's not in Serbia. Another part of the fairy tale is the moratorium that Serbia has on nuclear energy. We have until 2015, even formally, on paper, moratorium on nukes. Who authorized, before the minister, and now I assume that the Secretary of State, Mr Skundric, is to negotiate on behalf of Serbia on the construction of a nuke? Who's he empowering? On whose behalf does he say that? It's the first part of Mr. Dulic's fairy tale. I wasn't lucky to wait for him to hear this, but there's Mr. Minister Obradovic, because the second part of this fairy tale refers to education. One of the points mentioned here is the World Bank's credit for the social inclusion education project. You were not lucky, Mr. Minister, to be in public hearing, when we talked about the results of the Children's Rights Task Force, about what the situation in Serbian schools is like when it comes to inclusion. It is one of the topics which has also been interesting to a large number of NGOs, citizens, associations of parents, and to the representatives of institutions, because they were also representatives of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Everything we pointed out there as results, it could have completely signed, at least that's what Mrs. Tinde Kovac said. So, none of the things we said were exaggerated, even though I led this task force as the opposition's representative. We worked very objectively and the findings we came up with were made, and I think it exists on the Assembly site, if that's what you're interested in and if it's important for you to know how long it's been in use and how the infusion in Serbian schools has been difficult. But I suppose you know a lot about it. What we of the DSS parliamentary group said when we passed the Law on the Foundations of the System, is that the state has no money for such a expensive project as the inclusion. Then you told us that money is secured from various loans and that they will and how to contribute to making this big step in democratisation education, which the inclusion is and we support it with all our strength. It's just, we're very careful here, and we'd like to not end the story of the inclusion, as Gasha's reform ended, and as the stories of these big projects ended, when they collapsed on their own, like the towers of cards, because they just weren't sustainable. Now there's been a little bit of money. That's what schools themselves have confirmed, that they don't have for funding, that they don't know who pays for it, that they don't know why there are no associates who need to work on it, that certain local self-governments haven't formed teams that need to deal with this, or inter-resor committees. So the sea is a problem on the ground. That, I suppose, should cover the funds in this loan. I'm afraid we're a little behind on these means, because the inclusion survives on top teachers who have accepted to carry a burden on their shoulders. The system doesn't support inclusion. There was a conclusion at the meeting – there is something else that education does. The social has nothing to do with education, although the project is such that it should carry three pillars. Health has no idea there's a project like this. I'm afraid you're late for this loan. I'm afraid projects like this don't get in the way of strawberries, like you just did. Now in order to take a step forward, we need to borrow more money to make it. I'm afraid that's not a good way to go. There's another fairy tale about free textbooks. I'd like that fairy tale, if we could, to search, since you're here. I guess I won't get a chance to see this textbook law in front of the assembly. There's been a lot of material coming to the MPs. I've got a little something here with me about what this law is about and why it's changing, and what it needs to cover, what it needs to legalize. When we passed the Youth Act, we legalized the offices for young people who worked in Serbia for three-and-a-half years. With this law that needs to be passed, we need to legalise free textbooks, because there are obviously many things in this domain that are not familiar with the laws and laws of the Republic of Serbia. For example, this year's project costs the state a billion euros and can cost it 500m euros. That, you'll admit, is the savings that might go into this inclusion, not to borrow. Here's the thing. This is where you try to separate the textbook and the workbook. In this law still on the back is a workbook part of a textbook, a textbook set. These free textbooks do not have a positive opinion of the National Educational Council and the Institute for Promotion, Education and Education. You can't tell me about it, here it is, seduced, precise. Even representatives of the National Educational Council, which I assume you know is not anyone, argues and states why these textbooks you recommended to be used, very dangerous and incorrect, because those textbooks do not allow all the objectives and tasks of the course to be achieved. It's about the nature of the society of mathematics. In these textbooks there are contents that do not correspond to the age of students. These textbooks do not comply with textbook quality standards. They don't meet seven of the eight prescribed standards. Is it small? These textbooks do not meet standard one. Now there's an explanation and more and more. The state bought unauthorized workbooks, from first to third grade, so now in haste, this new proposal tries to legalize, proposing that no one should have an opinion at all, but they go that way, but for posters, for maps, this opinion is mandatory for posters. Do you feel that the workbook is less important than that? I don't think so. If something isn't approved, how was the workbook ever used in schools? I suppose for all citizens of this country, the same rule applies to all businessmen. There is a procedure, that procedure has to be passed without exceptions and the matter is simple. It was used by the Ministry of Education, and I have a memo, sent a letter to schools in which I agree to use it. It doesn't exist in the law and the law doesn't know it, your consent. Does that mean there are some who are above the law? What I said was a small part of something that's a big production. So a small part of the big corruption -- five hundred million. Is it small? Five hundred million here, five hundred million there, there's all your money so we don't have to call out the loans. I'm sorry we won't be able to talk about this exactly like that, but I'll take the chance, since you're here, to tell me what it is that I said wasn't liquid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66099	Thank you. Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66100	Dear Presidents, honourable parliamentarians, MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, dear colleagues, thank you for this opportunity to address me. Anyway, I thought I was talking about the laws that are the subject of your debate, but colleague Vojić Markovic asked me to give her an answer to this one question, which I will be very happy to do. The project has been following up on a campaign ever since. And why is that? Prozac is the reason for the money. Money, money, money and only money. Why? When Professor Micunović promoted the idea of free textbooks, and we at the Ministry of Education and Science accepted, in fact, there was the Ministry of Education at the time, to do this project, we faced great resistance from individual publishers who understood the project's dareisation meant lack of money in their registers. Not a question of child care, not a question of content, quality and other, but less money. Why? If the project predicts that one textbook can be used for three years, it means that the next two years, the textbook will not be reprinted unless it is in such a state that it cannot be used, which is decided by the expert commissions. And it's a very simple thing. Because the lack of money is likely, not likely but also less profit, because part of the money is not part of the profits but part of the total business, and then very strange, different stories about the fate of the project and what needs to be done. The data you've mentioned are likely data, I don't question them at all, it's just a question in which context they're spoken, because, for example, at the last session of the National Educational Council, when they're talking about free textbooks, there's no quorum, if that means something, and when there's no quorum, then the question is whether it's justified what they're saying, what are motives and what are the motives of individual members to talk about it in such a way. What is certain, since you mentioned a lot about both public procurement and the rest, that one publisher was complaining, he lost to the Public Procurement Commission, and it was absolutely confirmed that what we did was based on the law. He's run the case against us twice and he's lost both times. He sent two more complaints. The judicial authorities will give their judgment. You are wrong when you claim that the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on textbooks and other teaching tools is here to legalise something, but it is there to improve the law, because beyond what you are talking about it contains many more elements that are part of the amendment and addition of that law and I would like the National Assembly to be in a position to discuss several more educational laws, including this one, and then to reconsider the issue that is on the agenda. I must say that I formed an expert commission at the Ministry led by Professor Aleksandar Jovanovic, who was formerly president of the National Educational Council, a highly respected, handsome man. I think the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia chose him at the time of the second assembly majority. I asked him to help us in this project where teachers and other professional people were involved, and according to the law, a measure was found in what the content of a set is, because we noticed that individual publishers sell to children and parents what they want, not what they need, but what they want. For certain items, for example, in the first class, we had five books for Serbian, believe it or not, Bucharest, reader, manual, grammar, five books, so when you add five items or six, plus these other items, mandatory and electoral, then don't ask us from the ministry, and we are responsible for why the student bag is five kilograms and why there are so many textbooks. One epidemic prevailed – sell to the students everything you can, the parents had to buy it, so the parents were in a situation where only the teacher in question came and said – buy this set, not textbooks that are of quality, but buy this set, where perhaps one set was of one publisher for all subjects and it was not known whether all the textbooks in that set were as good as thought that, for example, the Serbian language or for members of minorities the native language, mathematics, the world around us or something else, and then our commission determined what the sets were. It was sent to teachers, that they opted, to choose at the level of the teaching council one set, for each subject the best textbook, subject by choice of teachers. Now I ask you, is there anything illogical about it? Of course not. Is it illogical that there is one set of textbooks in one school? Of course not. The practice was that you had two classes of the same class, that they had completely different, that we weren't talking about being inside the family, if they were, for example. Brother and sister went to school after each other, that they could not inherit those textbooks, because one teacher had one publisher, and another teacher had another publisher. Market economy. Each one of us was determined to do so. Before that was, unfortunately, a prosaic word called the margin, respected Mrs. Vojić Markovic, and that is something called a practice that was founded years ago. Then, together with this committee and the teacher's alliance and other professional people, we determined what the content of one set was, we offered teachers, teachers chose, we paid. Is there something wrong with that? Last September, 228,000 girls and boys received two million three thousand books for use. You believe me that they understand this project better than many respected colleagues, regardless of the title they bear. Why? Because these colleagues have a very specific interest, so they hide behind the big words, and there is a particular interest behind it. Therefore, do not be afraid, this project will continue to live with the future government, because it has its educational and social dimension. How is he good to many students and many countries around the world and not good to us? Nothing suits us as soon as it affects someone's interest. In Slovenia, there is a fund for textbooks, there is another parent fund, so you know exactly how many states and how many parents will give. The state gives you this and you don't question anything. I've listened to everything and everything. When we proposed these amendments and amendments to the law, even some rushed ahead to blacken us so much, that they did not make sure that we proposed amendments to that law from one body to the other and before it came to the Assembly, so they went out with five or seven days late in the media, telling us that the textbook was not good for that and that, and that was not already in the text delivered to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We learned some rules of play. As soon as we began to edit the system, we faced interests, different kinds of interests, with them all full of big words and noble goals. It's very simple for us. I remember a debate that we had, a public gathering where, with circumstances, besides Professor Micunovic, me and other people from the ministry, there were many NGOs invited, it seems to me that Mr Gilas was also. I found an interesting reaction from one of the representatives of the parent association, he says – parents do not ask questions. There's some, no offense, borderline where, to what extent, when, how and how much the parents participate in it. It would be logical for the textbook to be a tool asked about by teachers, not by others, and they make a decision. Mr. Gilas said then – okay, if you don't like it, you buy it. What's the problem? The problem is, someone's gonna lose a profit, two years when the project lives, and that's the whole story. Don't be afraid of the legal side, there's someone to worry about. Those publishers who care about their profits are very keen to file appropriate lawsuits with the authorities, standing in such a way as to challenge the project, but if it is the court, the court is doing its job. If it's about the other one, I have to tell you that so far, everyone has challenged their allegations. I'm sorry I didn't know you were going to ask me that, but I have to say the structure, it's all public information because you're using it, so am I. Let's see how much he's working and how much money he's making and how much he's making, and then you're going to face a very, very interesting one, to tell the situation, and it's very clear what motives are behind the question of what the fate of the projects are. So, don't worry, the project is in good shape, we'll continue it this year will be fourth grade. The National Assembly will discuss the law, I hope it will be adopted by the congregation majority. That they will vote in favour of this law, because that law is only part of the existing project, but there are other issues that are here, because there is also a question that is not mentioned in this project, the question and textbooks for members of minority communities. Who's gonna print that? Since the publishers are running away from it? Why it's not profitable, it's very simple, it's not profitable, because that's how someone else has to do it. This second one provides a high profit if you take 70,000 champions or 900,000 students, and the set cost between 50 and 100 euros, calculate what it is, nine times five 45, from 45 to 90 million euros each year cost textbooks, past notebooks, past accessories, past bags, past the other. And that's the big secret that's supposed to follow the story of free textbooks. Others can do anything, and we can't do anything. Why, because you're in somebody's interest? Thank you, Mr. Krassic. I'll take care of the weather. Speaking of these other education laws, you mentioned the Law on Confirming the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe on the financing of the Social Inclusion Education Project. Well, I must tell you that this bill, or social inclusion project, has two components. Component A and component B. That component A refers to home building, renovation and equipment. That it is ours, that the value of this part of the project is EUR 19,887,000, EUR 0.21 coma 79 euros, that our intention is to, since our resources are part of this project, because we must provide both natural infrastructure and arrange space for the facilities to be built. I would also like to tell you and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this project, which is planned to be completed by 2015, will include more cities in the Republic of Serbia. The end of the student centre, i.e. the completion of the construction of the Studenski dom in Nis, then the home of the school of agriculture in Svilajnc, is the completion of the construction of the Anex for the home of students, then the construction of the student centre, the reconstruction of the building of elevators in the Studenski grad as part of the November centre of Belgrade. Reconstruction, adaptation of pavilions and central cooking and with the Studen resort Belgrade to Palic. Expansion of accommodation facilities of the building of Anex dormitories and accommodation facilities of the building of Anex dormitories and the accommodation capacity of the Anex dormitories in Čačka, it is the home of secondary school students and the student centre in Čačka. Upgrading and adapting to the home of high school students in Belgrade, a work unit in Karajordje. In Novi Pazar, the construction of a November centre in Novi Pazar, the Studen center of Kragujevac, the construction of a new pavilion, the home of secondary school students in Leskovec, the upgrade of the student dormitory in order to obtain student capacity for students, the home of students. I think you need to know what money is spent on. Since you can hear in public that money is being spent on I don't know why. Now, I'm reading to you what will be spent, and if you're in the mood, I'll read you specific figures. And then I'll make it easier for both you and the auditor to know in advance what the money is going to be the subject of this project. Isn't it your goal and the government's representative to introduce the citizens to what seems to be good for them? Then don't question my desire to introduce you to it. Since you are trying to get to know the citizens of the Republic of Serbia about what you think is important, on the other hand, I am trying as a representative of the government to meet the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with what I think is important. Same as about free textbooks. We face our opinions here, and in the background there are certain stakeholders and care for children. Now, ask anyone, let me say from Belgrade, on the bottom, fantastically everyone accepts prices, respects the government's decision on the project of free textbooks, of course in Belgrade and Vojvodina, but objectively the standard of living is better, the payment opportunities of citizens are greater and the situation in families is better. But that's the kind of relationship that some people don't care about, and what they would care about if they could publicly attack a government project that says that Serbia really is a state of social justice, as much as anyone likes it or doesn't like it. So home to students of secondary schools in Kragujevac, expansion of accommodation facilities, in the Studen center of Subotica reconstruction and adaptation of the Student Centre. It will be built, renovated about 30 to 40,000 square meters of used space. There's a lot now, maybe now it'd be really pretentious if I read it all to you. When it comes to component B, it is about the professional training and training of teachers, the training of teachers and other staff. It is about improving skills for 18 000 and 500 teachers and other teachers who work with early education and education including educators in preschool institutions and teachers and teachers in schools, school directors, psychologists, educators, social workers and defectologists. Training programmes are designed to introduce changes in attitudes regarding working with children from sensitive groups and children with special needs. It's exactly what's going to happen, etc. I'm taking the opportunity to introduce you to another important law, that is, a bill that you're going to plead with. It is an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, CERN, concerning the granting of the status of an associate candidate who precedes the membership of CERN. I must tell you, by the fact that we have signed an agreement, that is, President Tadic is on 10 January of this year, we have essentially become part of the scientific space of Europe and have confirmed what we are constantly saying to quality researchers. Namely, a group of researchers from Vinci, the Institute of Physics, as well as other universities from Belgrade that have been working on this topic and in the past decade worked within CERN. The signing of the status of associated membership is one confirmation of the knowledge and abilities they possessed and the results they achieved in the project. It's about the largest research station, labs in the world. Even the Americans gave up building their research labs when they saw the situation of CERN. What they do is such a character that they objectively mark it for the whole world. We are practically signing the agreement on January 10th, the day President Tadic signed it and became an official part of the European scientific space and proved to have very good quality science. We will try to take advantage of the benefits of gaining the status of associated membership. How important this is and is talking about our science just to tell you that some countries that are members of the EU are not members of CERN. For example, it is Slovenia and Cyprus, and those who will be examples of it is Croatia, etc. I'm not saying I'd say others aren't good. I'm saying we're good and we deserve it. We've had one conversation with them, we'll have with the people who are our researchers at CERN. We want to use CERN membership not only as a promotion of our science but also to use CERN results to help develop the Republic of Serbia in different fields and scientific research and life. There is a great chance objectively for our businessmen too, because we will be able to participate in projects that CERN funds to the extent that our membership is equal to, most membership is 80 million dinars. It depends as the level of other countries' membership of the country's GDP, so to speak, it varies. In any case, it is a very important agreement that the congregation should accept. And a few more words, since it was here, you mentioned several agreements, but it should be mentioned that there are many among the state agreements not only with the EU, as it is potential but also with Russia, with Slovakia, with Turkey, with Ukraine, with Azerbaijan in different areas. Defense authorities, military industry co-operation, emergency assistance, air traffic, maritime. It is interesting that among all these proposed laws there is also a bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Serbia and the EU, the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Lifelong Learning Action Programme. This programme, by the way, exists in 2007-2013. We signed it on December 21st, 2011, so just over two months ago. The point is that this agreement is based on this memorandum that we have practically gained the opportunity to participate in all multilateral projects, networks, follow-up measures. This whole project is very big and it's huge money. The total budget for these projects is 6.9 billion euros. We have held, by the way, a press conference in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to get to know the public about the possibility that our educational institutions of different levels, but not only those, but also institutions and organisations that are important for education and science, such as state authorities, local self-government, businesses, chambers of commerce, other sectoral organisations, institutes and other research centres, NGOs and other organisations, that all have the opportunity to compete for these projects, that projects are a different amount of 150,000 for one year projects, up to 600,000 for three years, means projects from one to three years, that they can submit legal persons. All types of projects include cooperation between institutions from several countries, which is an intensity, in general, and in Europe, to cooperate as much as possible, exchange data and benefit from the comparative advantages of individual countries, or individual institutions, in the field of education and science. What is important is this memorandum, as it improves the methodology of teaching and quality of education, cooperation between educational institutions and labour markets, promotes creativity among students and preschoolers. These are all projects that can compete, training teachers to develop schools, introducing new educational profiles. We were left behind to compete on these projects. At the end of December, we invited all educational institutions to participate and published these data on the Ministry's website. I must say that I am pleased that today and this law is on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as others, and I hope that you will adopt them, especially for reasons, because there have been a lot of criticism in what money is used for. These few projects that I mentioned and this social inclusion law are listed exactly up to the dinar for what they will be used for, and this implies membership and lifelong learning, also implies our annual membership fee, in order to gain the opportunity to apply to projects that are extremely large from the point of view of money. Of course, there remains the question of our ability to participate in projects, and of course we hope to get them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66101	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Markovic, there are no elements to the replica. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66102	Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Boris Aleksic said that according to an agreement on Serbia's participation in EU crisis management operations, EU officers will command Serbia. After that, the DS representative explained for 10 minutes that this is not true, that representatives of the SRS are misleading the public, that Serbian forces will be commanded by Serbian officers, read various members of the Agreement, but did not read the most important, that is Article 10. Article 10 speaks of the chain of command and reads: "National authorities will transfer operational and tactical command over their forces and personnel to the EU Operation Commander". That's not the worst. The worst yet follows: "who has the right to transfer his powers". There's no telling who. There's no limit. It can pass on to a NATO pact officer, and at the very least to an officer of the Kosovo Liberation Army. The first law, one of the crises managed by the EU together with the NATO Pact, is exactly the crisis in Kosovo. The first law I'm going to talk about is the Law on Confirming a Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe on the financing of the Social Inclusion Education Project. With this law, the Republic of Serbia is in charge of a new 28mm, 500m euros. If the ruling majority adopts, and there is no doubt that they will also adopt this law and the laws we discussed in the first part of the session, this means that Serbia will be in charge of the new 1,711,600,000 euros on Wednesday, in the voting day. I've included all these laws, so the last law I've included, this law on confirming a framework agreement on social inclusion. So 25,500,000 euros. This is, by the way, 81 laws on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia discussed by the Serbian Parliament in this meeting. By adopting this law, by adopting this task, the total amount of the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia in this term of office of the Assembly, in the term of office of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, is 8,338,542,000 euros. Otherwise, on Wednesday, when we vote on these laws, 1,330 days of the term of office of this assembly will end. Now, if we divide the total amount of debt of these 8,338,000,000 by 1,300, then we get the result that MPs are ruling parties, DS, SPS, G17, SPO, Unique Serbia, PUPS and National Minorities, each day of their mandate. So, since 11 June 2008, Serbian citizens averaged 6,269,580 euros. If we divide it by 7,120,000 citizens of Serbia, this means that each citizen of the Republic of Serbia in three and a half years has been charged 1,170 euros in a new debt. This isn't about the debt base of that old 24 billion foreign debt and 17 billion domestic public debt. The worst part is, with these 1.170 euros, you owe all the citizens of Serbia, even those who were only born, you hired more than a million unemployed who had no income and you owed 700,000 people who, according to official statistics, live below the poverty line, because today they don't have a euro and a half to buy some basic life supplies. If you vote this law on the new borrowing of the Republic of Serbia by 28,500,000 euros, that means that in three and a half years, each household in Serbia, with 2,497,000 in debt of 3,339 euros. If you adopt all the laws that we are discussing today and we owe the Republic of Serbia for the new 1,711,000,000 euros, so we add that amount to all the duties of 11 June 2008, and we divide into 127 members of the ruling coalition how many on average voted for the adoption of these laws, we get one amazing piece of information that every member of the ruling majority, on average, owed to citizens with 65,657,811 euros, the right to change. You know, these 28,500,000 euros, which relate to the social area, may not seem too dangerous and frightening, but when it is seen in the context of the overall borrowing of the Republic of Serbia under the authority of Mirko Cvetkovic, it is clear that the law is also unacceptable. You know, when the government in three-and-a-half years owes the country 8.33,000,000 euros, it would be logical for the country to improve its standard of living, to start production, to open several hundred thousand early jobs, to decimate unemployment and the number of poor citizens, in Serbia, it happens exactly the opposite. We are constantly adopting new laws, we are constantly in debt, and in the meantime 300,000 workers have lost jobs, the number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia living below the poverty line has exceeded 700,000. The number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia living below the poverty line has exceeded 700,000, 730,000 people are seeking rescue from the plight of everyday gambling, and 70,000 people are surviving thanks to popular cuisines. The latest bill, which I carried out collecting these duties, shows that each raise of the ruling coalition's hands when voting on the laws, cost 810.590 euros in new debts to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So I draw attention to the ruling coalition's MPs before they vote for the adoption of this law on Serbia's debt to the new 28,500,000 euros to bear in mind that each handlifting is a new debt to the Republic of Serbia of 810.590 euros. Once again, I remind you that the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is 17 billion euros, the external debt is 24 billion euros, and with these 1,711,000,000 you are pushing Serbia from both feet irrevocably into debt slavery. The Serbian Radical Party will not help you and for this reason we cannot support these draft laws. As far as this agreement on security procedures in the exchange and protection of classified information between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union is concerned, it is one of a series of agreements that we have adopted here, more specifically adopted by representatives of the ruling majority, ruling parties, which I responsibly claim to be an insult, not only for national and state dignity, but also for common sense. You agree on the exchange and protection of classified information with the European Union to sign at a time when the European Union harshly violates United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244, practically, participates in the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija, in the occupation of the part of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. You and this European Union sign an agreement on the exchange and protection of classified information. It's beyond common sense. First-class black humor. The executioner is strangling the victim, and then he suggests let's take a break to get a little rest so we can sign a mutual co-operation agreement to improve our mutual security and when they sign that agreement, the executioner continues his job. The European Union, through the Eulex mission, is doing virtually everything to circle the independence of the so-called Republic of Kosovo and to provide it with international recognition. I remind you that the European Union countries played a leading role in breaking the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, then in breaking the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, then in breaking Serbia-Montenegro's state union, and now, together with the United States, are working hard to break the Republic of Serbia. I also remind you that the countries of the European Union, with which you will exchange and store data, significant data, significant to national security, have caused a series of wars in the area of the former Yugoslavia that killed 110.000 people, 500,000 people wounded, 22,000 people displaced, killed more than 43,000 members of the Serb people. I also recall that the European Union countries participated in Republika Srpska's occupation, having their part in the largest ethnic cleansing in Europe since World War II, in which more than 600,000 Serbs were expelled from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. The European Union does not stop at this crime. It helps Croatia today to preserve the results of ethnic cleansing, to prevent the return of the exiled Serb population and to prevent the payment of damage, war, material and immaterial damage. You sign such an agreement with such a European Union. It's ignoring reality, making fun of reality. I remind you that this same European Union was involved in the bombing of Republika Srpska. You remember their force for quick facts about how they shelled Serbia's Sarajevo and how they participated in Operation Maestral, which was occupied by the Croatian and Muslim armies in September 2005 by 13 municipalities in Bosnia's Krajina. The European Union played a leading role in the bombing of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Stoics bombed us for three months. Destroyed 300 bridges, schools, hospitals, killed 3,000 people, wounded 15,000 people, killed 73 of our children. It has caused us damages measured by tens of billions of euros, held under the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija, breaking Serbia's insurgency by Sandzak, rebelling Vojvodina, and you sign an agreement with them regarding the preservation of important security secrets. The European Union is responsible for the persecution of 250,000 Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. After care for the security of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija took over the European Union together with the US in Kosovo and Metohija, 1,004 Serb civilians, 300 Serbian people, at the best of their lives, were taken to Albania to be butchered there for the sale of organs on the world market. I urge all of this, I appeal to you, I appeal to the MPs of the ruling parties to call on their minds and show a minimum of dignity at the end of their term, to stand up and not to adopt at least one dozen of the humiliating laws served by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The next law I'm going to talk about is an agreement with the European Organisation for Nuclear Research. On this point, I only want to point to two facts. The organisation has never, not a single word, condemned the bombing of the Republic of Serbia with impoverished uranium. So, that's for the record. I remind you that the NATO Pact has admitted that the Republic of Serbia has thrown 15 tonnes of poor uranium, the Serbian Army claims that it is 35 tonnes, the Russian Army claims that it is 90,000 missiles totaling 45 tonnes. One such organization that should be the conscience of Europe, when it comes to this problem, has in no way condemned the crime. Only in Kosovo, so I'm not talking about Serbs, I'm talking about Albanians first, the number of people dying of cancer has increased by 100% after this bombing. We have the only country in Europe that has been the victim of the bombing and the mass bombing of the impoverished uranium, and that country is not only not a permanent member of this organization, it is not even an associated member. It's another one in a series of absurdities and therefore this bill itself makes it absurd. The next agreement with Turkey in mutual protection, please listen to classified information and materials exchanged in the context of co-operation in the area of the military industry. I ask if there is anyone in this hall who really believes that Turkey, which played a leading role in the war between Bosnia and Herzegovina against the Serb people, will play a significant role in the war in Croatia, a significant role in NATO's aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which is the main military alliance from the United States, which is soon taking over the Bonsteel base and which soon takes over the leading role in the occupation of the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, data from the importance of the military industry hides from its allies from the US and other NATO pact members? That's all crazy can believe. So why are we adopting a law that we know will not be implemented? We have adopted 1,200 laws and signed an agreement on a kind of military co-operation with Turkey. The last law I will look back on, the Law on the Agreement and Serbia's participation in European Union crisis-relieving operations and dispensing lawsuits. This is where the name of the law says everything. So a crisis management operation. There is only one information missing - operations to cause crisis and crisis management. It's not about crisis-solving operations, which would be logical. In that case, it would be logical for Serbia to join this agreement. Otherwise, this is one formal proof that EU countries are causing crises and managing crises, and how they do so is best seen in the case of Kosovo and Metohija, in the case of the Republic of Serbia. Along with America, the EU has caused a crisis that has led to the collapse of the SFRY, a series of wars with terrible consequences. The crisis continues, with the agreement that the Republic of Serbia is running for all the bad things the EU has done to it over the past 20 years, now it does to other countries and peoples for the EU's account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66103	People's MP Radisa Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66104	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us several draft laws, namely the Convention, which are united on a principle that is not clear to us, since there are also nuclear research, social inclusion, heavy metals and air pollution, European banks, co-operation with Turkey on the protection of certain data, etc. I think a memorandum that is included in this agenda, that is, in this point of "life" for Serbian citizens. You, citizens of Serbia, who have lost your job and you who will retire only when you are 67 years old, because that is what the EU wills, think carefully about what will bring Serbia a memorandum of understanding between the Republic of Serbia and the EU on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Lifelong Learning Action Programme. It's like someone reminds us of Lenin's work again -- teaching, learning and just learning. From all these draft laws united at this point, I have to say that there are some dangers lurking around, or NATO lurking in or lurking in huge loans or the EU lurking in or heavy metals and poisons and doesn't know what's worse and more dangerous for Serbia. If anyone knows what the common denominator of all these conventions and memorandas that are united at this point, believe that it should be given the Nobel Prize. In my discussion, I will focus on two protocols concerning environmental protection. This first convention, which deals with heavy metals by its nature, is a declarative character, and we can see that it mainly deals with category lists and descriptions of production processes in which heavy metals appear as byproducts. Twenty-thirty years later, although these conventions required production processes to be provided, toxic waste storage sites, ore depletions, such disasters took place, such incidents whose consequences have not yet been resolved and will still be felt for years. On the night between January 30th and 31st, 2000, 120 tonnes of toxic cyanide and heavy metals were dropped from Romania's Baia Mare base mine in Tis. At that time, the entire Tisa River ecosystem, as well as surrounding tributaries, was literally destroyed, including a good portion of the Danube River stream. The Tissa River accent was second-placed, just behind that disaster in Chernobyl in 1986. Who then compensated Serbia for the damage? Absolutely no one. We can say that Romania was not an EU member back then, while Hungary was an EU member in October 2010, but the likely ignored standards in Hungary's field of ecology were supposed to meet in order to join the EU, so the ruined tanks filled with toxic red concentrate, i.e. aluminium-based mud, gave way and contaminated in the Danube waters. Also, let us not forget that many companies make a significant share of profits and illegal profits by not spending money on proper storage and treatment of hazardous waste, hence heavy metals. They simply waste that waste, these waste dumps with toxic concentrates, scattered in remote areas, on mountain rivers or, worse still, burning that waste in high furnaces, which, unfortunately, has allowed them by the state of Serbia by their laws, of course, under the use of alternative fuels. A large number of amendments to this Protocol relate to procedures that signatories countries must take to reduce the concentration of heavy metals in land. Speaking of contaminated land with heavy metals, do you know about EU research, which we think is all the worst, about the pollution of agricultural land in Kosovo and Metohija? Kosovo and Metohija are polluted with heavy metals – chromium, nickel, lead, mercury, arsenic. We are saying this because we know that one day we will return to Kosovo. So said EU experts, who have produced all this chaos and powerlessness in Kosovo and Metohija, which has led to pollution. The worst part is that no one is responsible, since Eulex, and there again thanks to the green light given to them by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, no one, this Eulex does not arrest those polluters and those criminals in Kosovo and Metohija. That Eulex is breaking into Serbian houses, harassing, killing, arresting children, putting handcuffs on their hands. We had a chance to see it in the media. The worst part is that all these heavy metals come to central Serbia through river streams and threaten people's lives and health. Let me remind you, increased concentration metals cause genetic changes, nervous system diseases, cancer, sterility. Is there anything worse than that? Article 11 provides for ways to address the problem and compensate damages in the dispute resolution section of the heavy metal protocol. This is particularly interesting. Do you know who will handle these disputes? The International Court of Justice in The Hague. So without The Hague, there's nothing he can do about it. If the disputes are settled justly, under allegations, and timed as their colleagues in The Hague tribunal, then those who expect a verdict that is watered with heavy metals can freely reserve a place in the nearest cemetery. We are dealing with these protocols and conventions as if we're going to save the world from destruction, and the world's largest polluters, above all the United States, are not following any conventions, not just in the field of environmental protection, but as far as all the conventions that exist in this world are concerned. They are not even signatories of the Kyoto Protocol, which regulates the emissions of harmful gases and protects ozone envelopes. Let's look at today's paper. We don't have to go to either Romania or Hungary or America, Serbia, to Zajaca near Loznica in the blood of the founding child. Mr. Minister, a routine system examination revealed the presence of lead. Then what does the state do? What's the Health Department doing? What's the police doing? Who has the right to poison our children? Do these people have a name? Do they have any protection? Who are they anyway? I said a little bit about what this leads to, cancer, severe diseases, anomalies, sterility. Where did that come from? It fell from the sky. Can anyone arrest the responsible, Serbian radicals ask that? How many such Rabbits are there in Serbia? We have little uranium that NATO sent us in 1999 during NATO bombing and now we have to poison ourselves with heavy metals. It's about lead. It's about Annex 1. Protocol indicating the types of heavy metals covered by Article 3(1). From these past few years, we have had the opportunity to read the headlines on hundreds of memos, conventions, protocols that protect everything on this planet. We even think that the amoebes are covered by protection, but I can't find a way to see a convention that should protect Serbian citizens from the blackest genocide on the globe of the Earth, a convention that was supposed to sanction those who buried us with uranium bombs and nuclear waste from the NATO Pact plane. It's not there, it's not going to be, and we're left with the impotence to record the increase in the number of cancer patients, the largest number of children. In this second protocol on long-term organic polluting substances in the fourth section, waste, medical waste, etc., is listed as one of the techniques for reducing the mission. Today, under the form of alterant fuel, waste tires, pharmaceutical medical waste are crossed, and dangerous waste is burned in high furnaces, in the cement industry, perhaps in some solvents. What is normal for us and for international conventions, in developed EU countries, is, for example, not in Sweden. Here's an example. During our visit to the Swedish Parliament in 2009, we asked fellow board members what they were doing in Sweden with waste tires, as representatives of the executive government here in Serbia told us that tires are being burned throughout Western Europe as alternative fuel. Our colleagues from the Swedish Parliament replied that they were not doing this and showed us photos showing that they were making artificial hills out of waste tires, recultivated, where children were sledged during the winter, and our experts tell us – it's not harmful, it's in the EU, it's a deception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66105	Thank you. National MP Bozidar Delic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66106	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I would like to speak first of all about the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU on establishing a framework for the participation of the Republic of Serbia in EU crisis management operations. For the SRS, as well as for most Serbian citizens, this law is absolutely unacceptable. The agreements are another step towards bringing Serbia closer to the NATO Pact, and what is Serbia's interest in participating in the crisis operations caused by the same EU countries that are beside the United States in general in causing the crisis in the world? When we talk about these 24 types of operations, you can tell me whatever country you want and I'll tell you which country caused the crisis. The American strategy for causing and managing crises has been known since the 1990s. On our premises is applied during the breakdown of the SFRY, and then the SRJ, and we are particularly feeling it today in attempts to take away and take away our southern Serbian province of KIM. Nowhere did those who caused the crisis solve the same. They manage the crisis, reduce the intensity of the activity, and if the victim's country raises its head, they restart it and activate it. And in our places, right through crisis management, they've extinguished the supposed flame of war, but they've left the fire everywhere, so whenever they want to, they can re-prove the crisis, or the heat, they turn it into a fire, or a new war. The Serbian Radical Party has nothing against humanitarian aid, as there is a Red Cross humanitarian organisation in Serbia, which is in the system of international organisations of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent. We support it and all the activities that are in that domain, but this is something else entirely. This is about humanitarian operations, like "merciful angel," which we've already felt on our skin. We now need to participate with those who bombed us, who are causing all the crises in the world, under their command in crisis management operations in some other countries, and to impose solutions that are not in their interests, but in the interests of those who have caused this crisis. Last year, we witnessed what happened last year. The Arab spring, a crisis caused by the United States for its interests, along with its British and French satellites. They're doing the same thing in Syria right now. What is particularly sad is the fact that Serbia took part in causing the crisis in Egypt and Tunisia. Here in Belgrade, members of the Resistance have trained activists from Egypt and Tunisia about ways of causing unrest that will escalate in the crisis. Currently, as you know, there are five Serbian citizens in Egypt who are awaiting trial for threatening the security of Egypt, because they were few in training activists in Belgrade, they have already gone directly to Egypt to assist in operational management and the cause of unrest. They are still our citizens, but I don't expect them to be convicted, because they stand behind them America and will be expelled, as they have been done before when they are concerned. This agreement has two parts – provisions on participation in civilian crisis and other management operations, participation in military crisis management operations. However, if an agreement is read, it can be concluded that these two types of operations can be performed individually, either individually or in parallel, but most often carried out together. I find it a little strange that in Article 6 which speaks of civilian crisis management operations in point 4) the term military, which is entirely from the domain of military terminology and which should certainly not be found in this section where a civil operation agreement is spoken of. However, this only confirms what I have already said in advance, that this is about deliberately caused crises in the interest of certain EU countries, and especially not to speak when it comes to the United States. Is this agreement necessary for Serbia? Whether we should send our contingents, whether civil or military, to other countries, that we are most often opposed to the will of these peoples and those countries working for the interests of the countries that have caused the crisis, which are leading the crisis towards our interests and plans, and we are doing it all in the chain of EU command, where under our full control and command we have our national contingent, which is logical on the one hand, but that is a complete farce. Operations commanders are from the EU, they set tasks for national contingents, as can be seen when a member of the 6th Civil Operations and a member of the 10th military operations is read. In terms of lawmaking, you say, I quote - the EU security strategy confirms the EU's consistency with the world order, based on adequate multilateralism and international law. Well, it's just a complete farce. It is precisely the EU and America that have completely violated international law, and we have felt it again on our skin. Let me just remind the MPs that in this assembly we have several times raised the question of the participation of our parliamentary delegation as an observer at the ODKB Assembly (Organization of collective security arrangements). A so-benign initiative by the Russian Federation was not accepted, although none even of the ruling coalition representatives allegedly opposed it. This has not been resolved for three years, and here we want to send our soldiers and police officers to endanger the security of other peoples for the sake of EU interest. It can't, even if the SRS thinks it's the SRS's attitude to the citizens. I would like to say two more about the bill's proposal, and this is the proposal for a bill to confirm the protocol on heavy metals with the Convention on Transboundary Air Contamination at Large Distances, 1979, and the Proposed Law on Confirmation of Protocols on Long-term Organic Substances, along with the Convention on Transboundary Air Contamination at Large Distances, also from 1979. Gentlemen, if we had signed these agreements somewhere at that time or as they say by 1985, we probably wouldn't be discussing it today, and it would probably be okay. However, for us today these agreements are absolutely overcome. The first agreement speaks of heavy metals. These are metals whose density crosses 4.5 grams per centimetre by cubic and then is primarily talked about cadmium, lead and live. Everything said about these heavy metals is fine and acceptable are the measures proposed to bring the risk of their operation to a lesser extent. But in Serbia, we have a far greater problem with heavy metal, which is twice the size of lead. It is uranium and its isotopium – uranium 238, as we say to the poored uranium, which the Americans bombed Serbia in 1999 and used in Europe for the first time for the first time, it is free to say, atomic weapons. Not only did they bomb Serbia, but they bombed both Europe and the Balkans. The spread of this radioactivity and their particles will not stop the state's borders. We see the consequences of this every day. The death toll of leukemia and cancer is twice as high as it was before 1999. Why do we need these agreements when Serbia's territory is polluted forever? The time of uranium decay is 238 is 4.7 billion years. Let me try to explain it more vividly to you, even as far as our viewers are concerned. Since the birth of Christ, to this day, 80 generations of people have lived on earth for those 2,000 years. In order to reduce the radioactivity of uranium 238, 187 million generations should live on the ground. Let only one man die in every generation, you can see the situation of this crime that was committed in Serbia. In Serbia, all units have already died, especially the reserve band, as it is easier to monitor it, which fought in the KIM territory. All the arguments in these agreements fall ahead of these facts. That's why the SRS won't support them in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66107	Thank you. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66108	Mrs. Djukic, how much time do I have? (President: you have 23 minutes left. That's enough. Mr. Obradovic, let me boast a little, because these latest polls say the citizens of the Republic of Serbia share views with the SRS. If you please, citizens of the Republic of Serbia put Russia, China, Macedonia, Romania, Greece first as friends, unclassified. Everything is more than 50% when it comes to polling the enemy, in the first place are the United States. It fits with what Mr. Delic spoke before me, Radisa Ilic and Mr. Dusan Maric. It's in the second place, Great Britain. In third place are Germany, France, Croatia and of course the NATO Pact. So that's the perception of citizens. It's clear to them that our friends are exactly the countries the SRS says are friendly. You remember we signed some agreements in this building, there in 2000 with Russia and Belarus, based on which we have a special status. You see, they can put on a hundred different agreements, they can express beautiful expectations, but what is the perception of citizens, Mr. Obradovic, matches the views of the SRS. In the United States, in the UK, the NATO Pact, so now if you want – Germany, France, i.e. The EU, it is the backbone of the EU, they see the enemies of Serbia and the Serb people in it. This is very important because of several points of the agenda that are in this united debate, where there are 14 draft laws. You see how important these countries are, when you put all 14 of them in one item of the agenda. From the point of view of diplomatic relations is a little disrespect, but I don't blame you, I'm happy you didn't put 37 points on the agenda. We used to have 37 agenda points in a single debate. While I'm here with these polls and what's indisputable about research agencies, you see, with citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it's not clear yet who our friends and enemies are when it comes to some countries. For example, when it comes to Turkey, 33% of citizens think they're our friends. It's probably because of these shows, and 34% think they're our enemies, while 33% don't know. When it comes to the EU, 28% say - they are friendly with us, 39% of the EU sees them as enemies and 32% cannot say they are friends or enemies. Mr. Obradovic when you ask the citizens of the Republic of Serbia a question – is there a danger of separatism in Serbia? To say 67%. As for this parole - the EU has no alternative, who supports it? It supports 10.5%. In a way, it agrees with the initiative – 20%. It disagrees with the initiative – 19.3%. Opponents of this parole – 35.30%. Is the EU a damage to the Republic of Serbia? To say 22%, 21% agree with the finding, and say it is not harmful to the EU only 17.20%. Not to read further to this survey, some conclusions need to be drawn, what the mood of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is. We from the SRS can be satisfied with the results of this poll, because we see that all these years we spent on the political scene representing the views that Serbia has no alternative, that the Serbian people have no alternative, finally comes to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to understand why we stand for it and we will see it, it is not so important now, but we expect good communication. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I don't know if you were at the beginning. Mrs. Kolundji was talking about this item on the agenda, and what dominated her debate is a policy that lies. She talked and looked at me. It was an association that the SRS was running a lie policy. You see, the poll says we're not exactly lying, that it's okay with the citizens. But she forgot only one thing, that policy that promised 250,000 new jobs and employment did not achieve those results. That policy that she said -- both the EU and Kosovo -- didn't score, you know? That policy she was talking about on a better standard didn't score. That's not my opinion now. You know I'm much sharper in those criticisms, but that's what your statistics showed, registered, the Statistics Office. So 500,000 jobs are gone, there is no 500,000 future. The number of unemployed has increased by 300,000. Mr. Obradovic, it seems to me that 15,000 seniors are waiting at the Bureau, or 22,000. Maybe 22,000, I'm confused, 158 masters of science, right? Even three doctors of science are unemployed. This little, I don't know what this translation is – the whole life learning. What does that mean? Is there half-life, part-life learning or this – learning until you die? Mr. Obradovic, you lower those courses and those things, we have a higher education bar that is not employed. We don't need to invest anything, but the state has invested in their education, skills, and abilities. Our people are so intelligent. It's enough to give him a computer, in three days he's gonna learn to work on it, and he's better off working than this Srdjan Milivojevic, he's looking at the screen, and he's just laughing at something. He thinks it's a mirror. Our man is intelligent, amen human. How can you not understand? Now you say there are some great opportunities. I agree, you want to demonstrate some other policy, that's politics -- the EU has no alternative. It's politics -- we'll probably get candidate status to start talks. And when will the talks begin? Well, who knows. The Turks are waiting, poor people, for two generations to retire waiting. The poor Macedonians have already forgotten, made up their first year, said after that – get your hands up, there's nothing. But well, it's not the biggest problem of this set of laws being passed. You said earlier that you socialists were fighting for social justice, these are these free books. The biggest social justice fighter is Dusan Bajatovic. Poor guy's bleeding, he can't raise that much pay he's taking. I don't know, they write in the paper, a million and 200, a million and 300 a month. He'd love to have at least 50%, but he doesn't. Unfortunately, he's a minister, not a director of the Public Enterprise. Well, don't fight so much for social justice. It's better if you don't fight for social justice. Now the most important thing about this set of laws, it has to be said here, there are two contracts with the Russian Federation that, of course, radicals support, that's understood. Regardless of these criticisms that can be expressed in terms of these conventions concerning environmental sciences, which should probably be built up, perfected, from the point of view of principle policy, they are acceptable, but from the point of view of the consequences that we are suffering here, they are offensive to us, I must tell you. General Delic is only a part of that data he provided, and if you had the opportunity to read Dr Kovacevic's data that runs this thing in front of the state, he would explain to you what the poor uranium is, where it is and what the consequences are, you probably wouldn't have so much enthusiasm about these proposals here. Now we're coming to what's probably the most important thing to hide. We have two agreements here that signed this which he received in 2002, only that he no longer works in the state service, Sutanovac, so Tadic appointed him defence minister. There is no difference between the EU and the NATO Pact. Who says there's a difference? There's no difference. I don't know where you come up with the idea that there is no alternative in this EU policy, so far away that you go. I have one thing to explain to you, Mr. Obradovic, in June 1999, there was a plan for Ahtisaari - Chernomidin. The SRS was against that plan. All parties were for the plan, those in power and those in opposition and those not even in the Assembly. On the basis of this plan, Resolution 1244 was adopted. The adoption of Resolution 1244 actually achieved what was in the best faith, which is why the partners agreed. If the partners had no guarantee that it would be respected as it was written, no one would sign the plan. Same as the Dayton Agreement. In good faith that what is written is valid, the parties have confessed and signed. What happens after a few years the stronger party says – I don't care anymore? Then every reasonable man draws the conclusion that he can no longer trust that partner, because that partner once cheated on him, double-crossed him, double-crossed him, double-crossed you, and always cheats on you, and that's the relationship with the EU. Good neighbourly relations and now a philosophical question – is it a star or a snowflake? Mr. Obradovic, remember, in 2006, it had to be UNMIK-Kosovo. If changed terrorists come as MPs of their independent or those, the Serbian delegation leaves the meeting. Is that what happened, Mr. Beard? We left all the meetings abroad. We didn't want to sit in the O.R. where they came from. If it's UNMIK, fine. At first, these terrorists were not introduced into the role of politicians of transitional institutions. We're here today, what's the situation? Tadic says Thaci – where are we taking you? That's right. For what? For the EU. For what? Pre-accession funds to grab. No, people, the state is a very serious thing. Now let's explain some things, how we actually got into this situation. Here, Mr. Obradovic, the SPS, the DSS and the SRS were accused by Boris Tadic in 2008 of being anti-European parties ahead of the elections, do you remember, Mr. Obradovic? We got 128 terms of office. You remember, Vukic published secret conversations you had with Lilic. How can you not remember? Whether in "Justice" when you said "Lilic" - I'm with Boris like this. I'll bring you a book published, don't worry. Why would I make anything up? You know I don't do these things. (President: The best you remember is communication with Mr. Vukic. Stick to the agenda. ) Mrs. Djukic, I remember communication with you best. Let me explain some things, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Wait, 128 terms, Mrs. Slavice. Now we've published, Wikiliks tells me, U.S. Embassy dispatches, the demanter says – Dacica I've processed that he has to move to this side. What happened? The SPS transferred 20 mandates to Srdjan Milivojevic, and then you formed this, a party of enemies of Serbia, SNS, and there you have this educated, lifelong learning. He's no longer a construction technician. Do you know what he told the coroner today? Economy manager, as man progresses. All you have to do is look at the 58th year of your life. Then New Serbia left because these people were afraid that you would arrest them, not you, but these, and then we stayed at 57, the DSS stayed at 20 and Serbia became pro-European. It's not pro-European. Not even after these elections will be pro-European, but will be Serbian. I'm telling you, in 2008, she didn't win, the EU concept has no alternative, in 2012, she has to be beaten. Did you see what they're saying about this research? Your voters believe more the EU than they are against the EU, the SPS, but the PUPS and SNS remain the majority against the EU, but they do not know that they are both Krkobic and Toma for the EU. They don't communicate with each other. The voters are thinking something, and these two are pushing. They don't care. I'm saying that tomorrow these eyes open up to whom they vote. Once he cheats, he cheats all the time. You see what your Dacic said yesterday, he wants to fight these scepters for arresting his officers and now it seems acceptable, but the EU has no alternative, Barack Obama told me when I was at breakfast. Just to create coordinates to know where who, how, how important it is, how important it isn't that a man throws a voice in a nutshell, and by expecting something else, he gets something else. That's where we have to be very careful. We must, if we respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, state one general binding position. The Republic of Serbia can only have friends in those countries that have not recognised an independent Kosovo. All those who have recognised an independent Kosovo, with them must cool off relations, lower levels. When you make an agreement with the EU, 22 EU countries have recognised an independent Kosovo and do not deviate from it. And in all the stories, talks, agreements, all the time, Thaci's Kosovo has a primate over the Republic of Serbia. It was a big affair over the organs, so who's going to solve it, so let's leave the UN investigator to Eulex and them to go after Thaci, so please don't. But you talk to them, you make deals. That's the problem. And now these operations, how do you ease the stance of those five EU members? Again a mistake is made as it was made in December 2008, you called out for Eulex and Eulex came in with a presidential letter in December 2008 so that after six months, the same man who called EULEX said – au, so they are not status neutral, they are biased. And then in this assembly, a dilber jumps and says, "Why didn't your Russians veto?" How will they veto when the president of Serbia asked for Eulex? How was the General Assembly? Here we voted unanimously on the text of the resolution, etc. 70 and some states, Vuk Jeremic visited the globe six times, broke out, all of us will be supported by 70 states that have to fight with the United States in the General Assembly. Why? Because it is a principle issue, it goes into international law, etc. Prior to the start of the General Assembly of SMS messages, beautiful Kati, beautiful Tadic to change that there are joint resolutions of the EU and Serbia, and in one part of the resolution, the negotiating process. Where does Resolution 1244 say about negotiations? Resolution 1244 states that our partners for talks on essential autonomy and broad self-government are the UN Security Council. How's that? They were hoping, expecting. You expect something from someone who has shown you a million times specifically by example that he respects nothing he has signed, but his own interest. And we are now entering these two laws, and security, and co-operation, and we are now going to define with them crises etc. They're gonna ask us about the crisis. You remember in 2007, radicals when they came out of line -- you from the EU, if you think the EU can't exist without Serbia as a member, here we are. We'll pass all the laws in English by one vote, but don't make us growl and don't take Kim away from us. And what happened was silent and said – you will never be members of the EU, you will be carrots, stripes, poles, trimmings, etc. etc. but you will never be members of the EU, especially not now that they themselves don't know how to shut the holes, because they are drilling from all sides, because even Germany's primary money emissions can't hold. You know what it's like with the primary show and they have the primary show playing. Where did you get so many billions? Just from the printery. Some of their profits, etc. Let go of that story. The euro has played its part. Across the euro, Europe has paid the cost of uniting East and West Germany and the end. Six months that sounded nice, two stamps one euro, after six months what was a mark is now the euro and they hung things up and finished the job, but we believe. We do. What do we believe in? It's gonna be okay, something's gonna happen, we don't want to do it, and the money's gonna go down, it's the devil. It's only in Serbia that you can believe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66109	It's time for you to finish. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66110	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the MPs, we are now discussing 14 draft laws confirming agreements, memos and protocols, and just considering these proposals of the law confirms that from day to day our country's reputation, Serbia's reputation is growing. We, as we see from the proposed laws, have become candidates for the exporter and not for the importer of security. Among other things, the EU is with us practically signing an agreement with our country on establishing a framework for the participation of the Republic of Serbia in EU crisis management operations. This is a great ID for those of us who were in the area that represented the powder barrels by yesterday, and where it was not known how it would end with all the tensions that exist, and at this point we became important, means a respected partner both in Europe and in the world. This bill is just one of the many draft laws that we have discussed today, and the fact is that right now we have a whole series of draft laws that need to improve the lives of citizens in Serbia. It would be pretentious if I were to engage more closely today in the very advantages of the Law on Confirming the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe on the financing of the project of education for social inclusion, alongside the present minister, but this is about increasing access and improving living conditions in held homes, building, renovation, equipment for secondary school students and university students, as well as improving the quality of pre-school, primary and secondary education, through the implementation of training programmes for teachers and other employees. In the very memorandum of understanding between the Republic of Serbia and the EU on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Lifelong Learning Action Programme from 2007 to 2013 this proposed law confirms a memorandum of exceptional importance for participants of the educational process at all levels in the Republic of Serbia because it allows for inclusion in contemporary flows, obtaining their own experiences, but also insight into the experiences of others and before Serbia becomes a candidate for EU membership. All of this will contribute to faster European integration, faster harmonisation of our rules with the European and faster use of all the advantages that are being opened to us by improving and speeding up the process of European integration. We are talking today about the draft laws where our partners and Azrebajjan, Japan, China, and Russia, and the EU, and Turkey, and Slovakia, and international institutions, and among other things, but not as the last and last European Organisation for Nuclear Research CERN, in connection with granting the status of associated membership as a stage that precedes membership in CERN. I think it is also a confirmation of a comprehensive process which is unconstitutional in Serbia to become part of Europe, to become part of the developed world and to be the very scope of today's debate here in the highest home in Serbia, in the parliament of Serbia, in the National Assembly confirms all these 27 draft laws that we are practically a step towards Europe, that we are still Europe. In this regard, I call on all of you fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to support these bill proposals in the day of voting and to take another step towards Europe and to ensure a better life for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66111	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66112	Your Honors Madam President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I will be brief, since my computer appears to have irradiated Mr. Krasic, so he escaped, but I just want to point two things out for the end of this exhibition. Over 750 laws and other acts adopt this convocation, under your chairmanship, your colleagues and of course, these are probably the last documents that this assembly adopts in this form and form. Unfortunately, not everyone will vote for these laws, and I think it is a vain appeal, fellow Srdjan Mikovic, MPs of the opposition and Mr Zoran Krasic to vote for this, because no eyelashes will help anyone. But there is only one thing I would like to mention, at the end of today, at the end of this session, I would just like to read with whom we are all signing these Treaties with the EU, with the European Federation, and again with the EU, and then, with the Government of the Republic of Turkey, the cabinet of the Minister of Ukraine, and again with the EU and a very important agreement with the European Organisation for Nuclear Research CERN. Now I just want to make one parallel. Remember, Madam President, when we entered this hall and the presidential elections began, the then candidate Zoran Krasic, Tomislav Nikolic, said, when I win the elections, the Russian anthem will be played here, and this will be one more swing. Serbia is a republic today, playing "God's Justice", at the beginning of each session and signing contracts with both Russia and the EU, and I am very proud of what we have done together on all 750 laws and general acts that we have adopted, because in one 50 years someone else enters the Library and you, and me and my colleagues and Mr Minister, we will be proud of every word and every act that we have adopted here on every letter of the law we have voted, because it will be honorable, fair, responsible, professional, but above all, for the European perspective of our children. On that behalf, I thank you and wish you a happy trip to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66113	Please, Mr. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66114	Dear colleagues, MPs, even if you are worthy of staying in the hall until the end of this debate, I would like to thank you and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for having the patience to follow this debate. In fact, when discussing the draft laws that involve ratification or certain guarantees of the state, they feel by nature that they are topics that are not interesting. However, they are also interesting, because they are important for the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I am fully convinced that by ratifying these agreements, which are the subject of these agreements, Serbia's objective co-operation with the countries concerned will be improved or solutions will be applied which objectively, which will improve the quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I also wanted to finally tell you as Minister of Education and Science in the Government of the Republic of Serbia a few words about these agreements in the fields of education and science. He well noticed fellow Mikovic, we do a lot of things in this area, which somehow remains out of reach of the public, somehow positive news is not interesting. It is understood that it is the nature of our work, and then it is understood that we are doing it, but I have always noticed it, all of it, when we announce that we have done something, and today there has been some question of whether the funds will be spent in the right way, or if anything is done. I must tell you, because this is an objective opportunity to say something at the end of the term of office about education and science, science in the part where Djelic led for three years very successfully and provided significant financial resources to equip institutes throughout Serbia but objectively took a significant step towards further development of science, because some solutions that were objectively an initial character were adopted, so they were very aware of the need for scientific workers to meet certain standards, and hence their greater engagement, and this led to results. We're not a rising star by the number of quotes, we didn't sign this contract by chance. Years ago, it worked to finalize something that the Assembly should ratify. I said when I talked to Director CERNA, Mr. Holler, that when we ratify this contract, I would call him as a resolution minister to visit our country, and then we would make sure that we really showed him the research centres that we own and that he saw in part what he had the opportunity to see, or here in Serbia, what he saw in Geneva, that we had very capable researchers who could be equal participants in every research project. I want to say one more thing, for these four years, thanks to the European Union's resources, objectively, but even more to our domestics, which is kind of being ignored, we have managed to make 26 new schools, new five student homes, we have managed to make two new dorms, to increase the number of students who care about the state. For the first time in the history of the education system of the Republic of Serbia, we are funding doctoral studies after a new cycle, three years, we have 1,680 PhDs, it is already a significant personnel base, plus several hundred PhDs that the Ministry of Science in the previous term, until we have joined together, is also funding. We started five state schools, a department in Medvedja and Bujanovac, a state college in Vrnjačka Banja, a state college at the Military Medical Academy, provided for children in Serbia, for 228,000 students this year, and then for the previous two and a half years, for then champions, i.e. first and second grade students, complete free textbooks. Only this year is divided into two million three thousand books, and you can imagine what that will mean when the higher classes are covered. We've arranged the issue of education for our children abroad, we've introduced standards of higher education institutions, we've done a dozen other things, not to mention the legislative framework, five laws. So three are in the congregation procedure and I expect that in early March they too will be the subject of adoption. We are part of the European space, high education, we are part of scientific education and formal, because in some way, we are by signing the contract, or President Tadic, by signing the contract, has practically introduced Serbia, if I may say, into the status of an associated member, and this comes to him as some candidate status and we, in the scientific part, will be able to use all the benefits CERN gives. I mention this, not to boast as a minister, because there will always be critics, and they should be, because in an education system that has 900,000 students, which has 250,000 students in private, which is in state higher education institutions, and where there are 80,000 preschool students, you will always find examples that will say, it's not all like that, there's a similar. That's right, but we also had the courage to deal with these bad things in the education system, to look at the face of the problem standing before us and to solve it, as is the lack of level of education. For example, we are now on pisa tests, the last ones that have been done to reduce the functional illiteracy rate from 51 to 32.19, and the reading literacy we have raised by 40 points, by mathematically and physically seven, eight points and from the OECD index point of view, is taken as a good indicator that the country has moved forward. There is much to be done and I am absolutely convinced that these laws that will be adopted, at least in the work of education and science, will absolutely mean both in the area. All that we do, which is essential, every government runs its own policy, but there is something that is above every policy, which is the state and the care of the state should be common, the concern of every MP and every member of the government and that there is one continuity in what we do to make Serbia a better quality country, that is, to have a future, to invest in education, not a declarative pledge, but a real investment in the future. It seems to me that counterpart Krasic mentioned some years ago, and now the time has been shrinking from some scientific discovery to its implementation. What we learned 20-30 years ago, not only is it not part of the curriculum and the program, but even if something is being held back, the question is what will be used and that makes sense. It seems to me that colleague Krasic mentioned it some years ago. Now it's getting awfully short on time from some scientific finding to its implementation in practice. What we learned 20, 30 years ago is no longer just not part of the curricula and the program, but even though something has been held back, the question is what will be used and this lifelong participation and how it makes sense. This Memorandum of Lifelong Learning is, in fact, opening the door to us, as a country that we can participate in all the projects that the EU offers. If the 2007-2013 budget was 6.9 billion euros, then you can think of the possibilities. We kind of arrive at the end of that cycle now, because we signed on 21 December 2011, but at least we had a chance for 2012 and 2013. In the coming years, especially with candidate status, which I expect, we are given great opportunities to participate in different projects to provide, if you will, additional quality for the education system and additional resources. There is a great interest in the educational and scientific public of the Republic of Serbia that these agreements will be accepted. I urge all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to accept all agreements in voting day. Of course, I am most interested in education and science laws, but I think that by accepting other agreements and how it will make sense from the point of view of future development and the desired development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-27-0.u66115	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, nor are those that would under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure took part in the work, let me conclude a joint single search on the points of the agenda that we discussed, i.e. from the 14th to the 27th agenda. Let me inform you that the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on these drafts of the law. I would also like to inform you that we will continue our work on February 29th at 10.00 hours. I thank you for your participation in the work, thank the minister and his associates for actively participating and I will see you Wednesday at 10.00 hours. Bon appétit.
