ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e71	Two permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative, Kari Henriksen, and by the Socialist Left Party Group on the sick leave of the representative, Solfrid Lerbreck – both from 3 March onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Western Agder: Odd Omland For Rogaland: Eirik Faret Sakariassen
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e106	Odd Omland and Eirik Faret Sakariassen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e117	The representative, Jon Engen-Helgheim, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e122	On behalf of the representatives Siv Jensen, Sylvi Listhaug, Helge André Njåstad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on border control measures for a new stream of migrants to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e127	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 2 March 2020: ‘The City Council was held at Oslo Castle on 2 March 2020 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 under the direction of His Royal Highness The Crown Prince. The following decision was adopted: Government council Geir Inge Sivertsen is dismissed in grace. State Councillor Torbjørn Røe Isaksen takes over until further notice the management of fisheries and seafood in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, as well as the responsibility he currently holds for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. State Secretary Trine Danielsen is pardoned as Secretary of State for the State of Geir Inge Sivertsen and is re-appointed State Secretary for the State Council of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. All the amendments made above shall take effect on 2 March 2020 at the latest. 11.30.’ The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e164	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e180	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e196	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e203	First of all, it is appropriate to thank the Committee for its excellent cooperation – flexible handling processes from all parties and to show patience on the part of the proposers as the process of handling has taken some time. The representative proposal deals with a theme that I think most of us here in this room have a big heart for, that is, how the sugar so that Norwegian industry can continue to recognize that the energy we use as electricity is pure, but also reasonable, which we all think should be an advantage for Norwegian industry. Norway has a long and proud story before the build-up of force, the backbone of our power system is the adjustable water force. For generations, we have arranged for the renewable hydropower to be harnessed to industry and jobs in Norway. We have done this by reducing the rate and exemption of electricity charges for parts of the industry, corresponding to 7 billion kroner. kr in collective lighters, cf. the national budget 2020. Some customer groups have also been reduced by Statnett. Guarantees of origin are a labeling scheme for electricity to show power customers that a lot of power has been produced from a specific energy source. Power producers selling original guarantees also receive additional income from their renewable power generation. Nevertheless, it is such that the plurality of a comment in the Inst. 401 S for 2015–2016 sees that the system can improve, where a bad government ‘examined further how changes can improve the functioning of the renewable energy system with guarantees of origin and product declaration for electricity than at present’. The work has been carried out in the department, thus taking into account what the proposers have put forward in their proposal No. 1 and 2. We are looking forward to this work being presented from the Department's side. The proposal also has ratios relating to the output of AIB, and to ensure that Statnet’s tariff model is set up so that industry’s cost part reflects the costs it imposes on the network, and a proposal that mentions the equivalent level of tariffs for high-use large consumers, regardless of whether electricity is taken from the regional or transmission networks. Statnett has been working on the tariff model for a long time. This is a demanding work to consider many aspects. There are long listening processes. However, the detailed governance of Statnet is not in the department's form of ownership, as the representatives here state. Finding a tariff level that is consistently high for high-use users is also complex, nor does the State, as the owner of Statnet, have the power to influence the tariff. I look forward to a constructive debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e227	I want to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good job. In this case, the Labour Party has very many proposals to build up under the Norwegian industry, in view of the power policy we have. It is important to take action and get emissions down here in the world, but it is also important to take proper action to build up under schemes and solutions that point to the real use of the force you have. The guarantees of origin are a challenge in this way, where one actually pays for something that indicates that it is produced renewable power somewhere, if not exactly the power you buy. So it's a little bit like buying green, what do I say, green -- I just thought the president would start immersing me -- that you refer to green, good arrangements, but then maybe it's not quite like that anyway, so you sail a little under the false flag. I really appreciate a good president here. What's the challenge is that the EEA Agreement provides opportunities to use the space for action here, and that's exactly what we've been trying to find in this case. We see that if industrial actors, major industrial actors in Norway are to start using this system today and are to be increasingly forced to use it, there are many millions of expenditure in the budget for them, which is demanding. Oslo Economics produced a report in the autumn of 2018 that we sat down and studied carefully. It's important to look at what kind of solutions you found there. Based on that, we have worked with various actors and found out about these proposals that we have made on this matter, and we did so in June 2019. Today is March 2020. We have had three state councils in advance of Tina Bru, so we have great expectations that the new state council will actually get involved in the matter, take action and do something about this. We know that all of the former state councils have been positive about doing something, but we've in some way not been presented with anything considering what result we're going to get here. So we have great expectations of that, really. I think it's high time to go into it. If there is a matter with which the government will also come back to Stortinget, we would like to join in and look at solutions further. We have also been presented with various proposals and have had good dialogue with the rapporteur, who is also very committed to this. I think that the whole committee, whether you're in position or in opposition, wants to do something, and our industry is impatient, so I think here's the most important message now, after the matter has been so long, that something happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e240	And that the representative probably wants to make suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e245	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e250	The representative Else-May Norderhus then addressed the proposals of the Workers' Party and the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Greens' Greens' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e255	In this case, the Labour Party is concerned with the Norwegian industry and the framework conditions for the industry. It's very good, and the Workers' Party should be commended for that. It is important that we organise for the industry and that we have framework conditions that enable it to develop further. I also understand the intention of the Labour Party's proposal, and see the challenges posed by guarantees of origin. Nevertheless, I struggle to see what better solutions this proposal will give us. If you just turn your back on it, unfortunately, the problem does not go away by itself. Norwegian industry both has and has had a competitive advantage over renewable power generation. That is the advantage I understand that proposers want to maintain. Whenever international customers and Norwegian industry request evidence of the power used in the manufacture of their products, the ‘Made in Norway’ shall mean renewable and further evidence shall be unnecessary. The thought is great, that one. But when the rest of the world deals with guarantees and creates systems to prevent double counting, I struggle to see how Norway will be able to stand out. I find it difficult that guarantees of origin will disappear beyond the borders of Norway, regardless of what Norway is doing in this matter. Norway, which to date has undoubtedly earned guarantees of origin, and Norwegian power producers have made good money to issue them. Nor should we forget the value of the business they are. The demand for clean renewable energy will only increase, and the value of renewable energy, and in particular magazin-based hydropower, will increase. Guarantees of origin help to strengthen this and make renewable energy even more competitive. This proposal will hit the power industry very hard. On the other hand, we see that trade in guarantees of origin reduces the competitive advantage of renewable power generation to Norwegian power-intensive industries. On the front of the industry is so big that it offsets the downside of the power industry, I am considerably more uncertain than the proposers are. So I think the best thing now is to wait for what the department and a new government council do to get some opportunities and a room for action on the table. If the situation is not new, it is at least even more topical than ever. It may be appropriate for the Department to give priority to progress in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e272	I would like to start by thanking the proposers for putting an important theme on the agenda. Norwegian energy policy and not least good access to clean and cheap energy have been a key factor in Norwegian industrial travel for over a hundred years. It has contributed to the creation, innovation and production of important export goods across the country because the works and factories have been close to energy sources, for example. aluminium production. Norway is close to 99 pst. self-sufficiently renewable, and mainly from hydropower. Therefore, there is reason to question the Norwegian industry when it appears that it has to purchase guarantees of origin for clean power. Immediately, the system of origin marking appears to be a system of greenwashing. Unfortunately, there will be errors for the Norwegian industry, which is initially based on just pure energy. It should be our advantage, not inconvenience, and it should happen without having to purchase into a guarantee scheme. That someone in 2020 should come and claim that Norwegian products are not climate friendly because guarantees of origin are not purchased is therefore meaningless. It's become a system that's hard to understand for most people. However, when the Central Party today does not support the proposals of the Workers' Party, it is already a matter of making the system of so-called product declarations and guarantees of origin better than it is today. The center party can promise that we will go critically into such a case when it comes. We would like to examine in more detail whether the guarantees of origin have worked in line with the intention and whether results have been achieved for increased renewable energy production, as intended. Given the cross-political consensus that this is a scheme that does not work as intended, the Centre Party believes that such an investigation is a good place to start before concrete changes are adopted. The parties share the concerns of the proposers that the cost share of the online industry is increasing. The uncertainty surrounding the new tariff model has been around two years and contributes to the absence of new investments. It's serious. It is not a good and predictable industrial policy at a time when we are in a transition from petroleum-based, sea-based industry to land-based green industry. A new tariff model must be made in such a way that the share of costs incurred by industry reflects objectively and retrospectively the costs actually incurred by the network and should be regulated in order to minimise the uncertainty associated with network costs. Predictability is essential for the future of industry, and we are dependent on more land-based industry in the future. I bring up the proposals of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e289	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e294	We also share the concerns of the proposers that the Norwegian industry may lose an important competitive advantage if guarantees of origin have to be purchased as a form of evidence that the force used is renewable when electricity production in Norway is initially based on clean hydropower. In the fight against the climate crisis, the world will need more renewable energy – renewable energy that can be used to replace fossil fuels. Also in Norway, more renewable energy is needed to phase out the half of our fossil energy consumption. The guarantees of origin we are discussing today were intended to provide incentives for the production of more renewable energy. Whether these guarantees have done so in Norway is an unanswered question. Have the guarantees only increased the profits of the power companies? One of the challenges now is that guarantees of origin are sold to businesses and persons in other countries. This will include, inter alia: Norwegian industry is left with the power that is allegedly not clean, even though the electrons they take out, mostly come from Norwegian hydroelectric power plants. It seems that there is a broad consensus that the system of guarantees of origin and the NVE product declaration is not working well enough, even if there are no good alternatives to them today. This was also pointed out by Stortinget when Stortinget dealt with the energy message. There is also reason why SV is involved in the proposal to further support the work already under way and that we should have an investigation into the whole system of guarantees of origin and how best to organise them in order to operate optimally. I refer to the proposal by the Socialist Left and the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e308	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e313	There is a broad consensus in the hall that it is possible to make the labelling better, but then some of the consensus stops there – how we should do it, and who we should distribute cake to – because the power industry has a number of incentives today. The rapporteur, Mr Eskeland, pointed out, among other things: on tax incentives. It is a zero electricity tax, and the Norwegian power industry also has so-called long-term contracts that many other countries do not have. The reputational income that we can say goes to renewables is also part of this. The second is to contribute to the replacement of polluting power in Europe. The revenue currently charged goes to the owners. To call it a slightly diffuse power sector – it's mostly municipalities and we residents who are the owners of those companies. They don't want to lose income. The issue of reputation is also very much a question for consumers, we as power customers, who are likely to have to pay a contribution to industry if we are to subsidize further. I also think we should go a little beyond the borders of Norway, for the discussion is as far as it really is concerned to make Norway as different as possible. We've been for a long time, with our hydropower. Today, the other European countries are coming up with large-scale renewables, and that is, of course, the objective, to get other countries to do as Norway does. One could say that this is a scheme that might go out on date in the future. Whether it's in 5 years, 10 years or 30 years, we don't see the contours of today, but I think it's worth taking the reputation debate – whether Norway is going to stand on the outside of the debate about transforming the energy supply in Europe and not showing up the renewable sector we have, with our hydropower and how important it is. We also build other renewable energy. Digitalisation is an important part of that transformation. We're going to be on that team, and we've gone ahead with the Nordics. I encourage us to continue to link together in the Nordic countries and also to Europe on the change to green energy. This is where I think the representative Else-May Norderhus tried to say "greenwashing." I can't see that the intention is. It is an honest attempt to achieve more renewable energy across Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e324	Hydropower resources shall be managed to benefit our communities and our nation. Hydropower remains a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. There is no doubt that Norwegian power generation has very low emissions. In 2018, the total was 98 pst. of electricity produced in Norway from renewable sources — mainly hydropower but also some wind power. The system of guarantees of origin for electricity has been under discussion for a long time. The Ministry has worked on different solutions to improve the functioning of the scheme for consumers, industry and the power industry. The guarantees of origin also provide large revenues to Norwegian producers of renewable energy. Income comes mainly from foreign purchases of Norwegian guarantees of origin. At the same time, industry is concerned that the scheme weakens their competitive advantage of being located in Norway. The concern of the industry must be taken seriously. I therefore look at a solution that better gets the message that the flow in Norway is green. Both consumers, industry and the power industry are asking for the information showing the actual climate impact of Norwegian electricity supply. The system of guarantees of origin will continue, but we can clearly distinguish between this and the message that the flow in Norway is renewable and green. I do not want to actively weaken the scheme of guarantees or make changes that threaten the large revenues from them, but cleaning up the information on Norwegian electricity is important for several reasons. Households, businesses and municipalities need a good basis to choose between different energy solutions, and industry must be able to demonstrate that their power consumption has a low climate impact. So to the proposals on tariffs in the mains power grid. It's the power customers that cover the costs of the network. My starting point is that all customers must be involved in covering these. All network operators are themselves responsible for establishing tariffs in line with the applicable rules. Tariffs shall be based on non-discriminatory and objective conditions while providing signals of effective development and use of the network. Statnet’s final tariff model has not been completed and adopted. I assume that Statnet itself is designing tariffs within the energy legislation and the EEA Agreement. If some online customers have to pay less in network rental, the others have to pay more. All regional network companies have to assess for themselves whether large consumers in their network are of equal importance to the network as large consumers in the transmission network. The breakdown into customer groups and thus the cost allocation between different customers shall be based on relevant network conditions. This is a principle on which a fixed tariff model for large consumers in the transmission and regional networks must also be based.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e341	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e346	It's a challenge when you start taking things into consideration, getting a balance that both industry and power companies and the community's revenues will be satisfied with, and that's exactly what makes this issue difficult. We recognize that too, but we have tried to do something about it and tried to come up with solutions. I want to challenge the state council to clean up the information stream. We have a proposal here that the NVE should provide clearer information on what is physical power consumption, and what is power consumption based on guarantees of origin. Then it's interesting to hear how the Council of State sees a solution, since you don't support what we've proposed. Then I am interested to hear what the Council of State thinks about how it would have affected us if we had signed out of the AIB system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e355	I share many of the considerations that the Workers' Party has about the need for this clarification, as I also said in my post. There's no doubt that this is complicated. This is something we've been talking about for very many years. I remember very well when I was the case rapporteur for the Energy Communication several years ago, that it was also a topic. It's not easy to find the good solution, but I believe we'll get it done. As I said, I'm working on it, so the system can work better and take care of the different reasons we have to take care of in Norway. I agree that there are challenges to the guarantees, but the state's membership of the AIB I don't see as such a challenge. I am really quite surprised that the Workers' Party is making such a proposal here in the Stortingen today, without the consequences of anything like that being investigated, for the purpose of the AIB is that they should contribute to a subordinated trade in guarantees of origin. So regardless of what you think about the scheme, I think it's in everyone's interest that this is happening in an open and despicable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e364	I did not get an answer to that with the NVE and the pie diagram, which is actually a proposal, so it could give the Council of State the opportunity to respond at once again. When we hear the Left and the Kjeseth, he says that this arrangement might go out on date. But it's more of a trend that maybe it can be imposed on the industry to have it in the future. It's not today. But we don't know what's going on in the future, so we need to find a way to solve this that's predictable for the industry. There are several EEA countries that are out of the AIB system, but it does not close the door for power companies to sell guarantees of origin. That's why we should actively pull out as far as we can. Because today it is not possible to say that we do not want any guarantees of origin. I just want an evaluation of the proposal that we have on the NVE and information, and how the Council of State assesses guarantees of origin in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e375	As I said, we're working on a solution. It will be a little premature for me now to address a concrete proposal for a solution, because there are many aspects that need to be taken care of. But I fully agree that we need to see if we can get a clear message about the composition of the physical power supply. It's one of the things that it's natural to look at so that industry can communicate in a different way than today about what the Norwegian power supply actually looks like and what their consumption is like. What I miss a little bit in the Workers' Party's approach to this matter is to take care of the power producers as well. These are huge revenues for them, there are large revenues for many municipalities. Making sure that we have a system that doesn't weaken the value of those guarantees will also be pretty important. I also think it is worth bringing with me in this picture that 80-90 pst. of the guarantees sold from Norway today are sold to the rest of the world. So it has not yet greatly affected the Norwegian power-intensive industry. They are not the ones who mainly buy these guarantees. As I said, there are many reasons that need to be taken care of. I look forward to coming up with a solution every time, but I don't have the whole solution here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e384	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e403	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e410	The Committee has been dealing with a matter of solar power, and as the rapporteur-in-Office, I would like to say that I think this is an exciting proposal in a field that the Committee has had very few cases about so far. That's probably a lot of other things we've had more often, to say it like that. Norway needs ambitious targets and more organized frameworks to speed up solar energy deployment, there is no doubt about it. We're behind most, and it increases the need for self-search, I would say, for what ambitions we want, and what kind of solutions we need to achieve these goals. Our neighbours in Sweden have 10,000 solar installations this year, while here we have 2,000 installations. The fact that Enova now wants to reduce solar power support from April onwards is that there are several parties in the committee that are strongly responding to it. We see that there is increasing interest in this area politically. There is also something you can see in the comments and the stream of proposals in this case. We find it disappointing that the government shows so little interest in and willingness to adopt new solutions and to take action that can stimulate more projects, rather than now supporting the reduction that Enova has in their support. Rather, the government indicates that the interest has increased so that there are several operators who want this product, and then believes that the market itself should govern it in the future. We're not there yet, as we see it. Then we point out that the Council of State pointed out that RME, the Regulatory Authority for Energy, is to send out a hearing on positive customer schemes for housing law and co-operatives, and that it is the Ministry of Oil and Energy that may adopt the amendments to those regulations. It's the government's privilege to do that, but then we also have to expect that you use enough energy in the government, maybe even solar power there, to get the necessary grips. State Council Bru is like a sun in the hall, so I think then there's hope, there's light! [[Laughter]] The government rejects the proposal for Decision IV to seek a combination of Enova grants with loans from the Husbank, but now meets the proposal for these new criteria by saying that environmental documentation is one of the criteria for obtaining loans. It could be a good start. Proposal for a Decision I to investigate various measures to stimulate the increased production of solar energy in Norway is not met by the Ministry, as they justify the participation of the Norwegian research communities and industry themselves in this development, and they indicate that important instruments are established through Enova.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e427	Supporting and facilitating energy-efficient low-carbon solutions is important in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and saving energy use. However, I do not believe that the Storting should be behind the individual allocations and priorities of technology. I doubt that it would lead to so much better solutions. If we're going to succeed in the transition, I think there's someone who needs to see the whole thing and grant and prioritize the use of money, create programs and grant support for individual projects, and Enova is our tool to see this whole thing. It shall not only be an objective to have as little as possible in the shortest possible time to change its daily life, but one must have the ability to think in the long term, see which products can provide new solutions, create markets and provide new technology developments. Solar technology development is likely to be affected to a very small extent by what is being done in Norway. I both believe and recommend that we continue to use Enova and the device we have today to assess new solutions and technologies – to bet on them is necessary in the start-up phase – and then phase out support schemes, release capital to invest in new and better solutions and technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e436	The sun is the basis of all life. The transition to a future where we can no longer rely on the black, non-renewable carbon must be about the green renewable carbon and renewable resources. In this, the sun is absolutely crucial, even up here in the north with long winter nights. The potential for producing energy from the sun is great and will be an important complement to other energy in the future. Solar energy is produced locally, and Norway has many surfaces where it can be installed without major conflicts. It may be on the roofs of our homes, or of ‘most people’, which some people like to say, or it may be on agricultural buildings — in use or not in use — or at ASKO warehouses in Trondheim, where solar cells already cover several thousand square metres and contribute to the production of pure hydrogen for the company’s trucks. Even though we're starting to see traces of solar energy in this country as well, there's room to bet more. Only in 2019 the Swedes installed over nine times more solar panels than we did here in Norway. Then the solution is not to phase out the aid, as announced. On the contrary, support needs to be maintained and the tools for stimulating investment need to be strengthened. In the previous case, we debated new industrial policies. There is also an important perspective in this debate. The production of solar photovoltaics and components is energy-intensive. Norway has industry producing these products, and we do it based on pure renewable energy. We therefore need to learn further from electric car policy in the transition to a more climate-friendly age. Norway has made good progress in the conversion of its passenger car fleet through the benefits for zero-emission cars. In particular, this has contributed to a strong increase in electric cars on Norwegian roads, but so far it has not contributed very much to new Norwegian industry or sustainable jobs of significant size, if we do not look at those who install charging stations around. In solar energy, we have an obvious possibility. By stimulating households and industry to contribute to increasing energy production by investing in clean energy, we can also provide for Norwegian industrial construction. Norwegian photovoltaic producers have so far been through a quite turbulent time with both ups and downs. By linking public support schemes for the installation of solar photovoltaics to the plant’s climate pressure, Norwegian solar products will be significantly better than the competing industry, for example. in China, where the solar photovoltaic products are based on coal energy. So we can help to ensure that climate change also contributes to industrial change based on non-renewable resources. I take this up with me the proposals of the Central Party, together with the Socialist Left and the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e453	The representative Ole André Myhrvold then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e458	A little while ago, the committee was traveling to Svalbard. When we got to the airport in Longyearbyen, we could see that at Svalbard, too, there is a potential for solar power. There's one wall covered with solar cells, and the number of hours of sun in Longyearbyen is in a year as many as the number of hours of sun in the more southern parts of Norway. This shows that Norway also has a high potential to invest in solar power. If we are to be able to stop the climate crisis, we must ensure that everyone is included in the transition. We have to have a policy that makes sure that most people get out better, and if they are to have the opportunity to join, we have to make sure that most people don't get locked up in expensive, polluting and energy-intensive solutions. Today, in reality, only those who have equity and funds have the best opportunity to use government grants through Enova to produce electricity and put solar cells on their own roofs. This means that a lot of people fall outside and don't get the opportunity to participate in the transition we're about to undergo – that they don't get the opportunity to reduce their own energy costs through a more decentralised and self-produced stream. That is why we in SV believe that we need to create energy loans, to continue the support from Enova and to increase the subsidies to solar power. In addition, we need to provide housing laws, communities – yes, maybe entire neighborhoods – with the opportunity to produce and use solar power together. Solar power is today perhaps the best and easiest solution to the biggest problem in the world. Today, there are few conflicts associated with the use of land, as there is today much talk of using already existing buildings and developed areas. That is why SV has promoted this proposal in Stortinget, and I would like to address the proposals put forward by SV together with the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e469	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e474	I would like to commend the Socialist Left Party, which has promoted these proposals, because we need to debate the development of a sector that is going to mean a great deal to the transformation of renewable energy within us. Norway has contributed to the development of solar technology. But we're now making an even bigger contribution to the conversion we're doing within electric cars. The next step becomes the storage capability, and it's on the way batteries that can be the cache that allows us to use the energy for hours a day. Electric cars are one of these intermediates. When we put a lot of electric cars into the system and we can use them as stores, it's also a big contribution. But we have to discuss whether the next step is going to support the batteries, which currently have a little too high a price for people to put them in. We should be glad that there are technologies that are so reasonable that there is almost no need for support measures. Here, developments are going very quickly, and there is coming more and more efficient technology. I even have solar panels on my roof at Gjøvik. There we have six to seven months of winter, but now in February I have had production quite many days. It's like someone has to go in front and try out. I haven't done this on a large scale, but I see what kind of development is coming. I can keep up with my cell phone at any time. It also creates more conscious consumers. We are also discussing whether to introduce power tariffs. Part of this is also reducing energy consumption and using it as efficiently as possible. We also have to look at something other than the roof. In agriculture, there are many ceilings, and they are large consumers of energy. It is not appropriate today to apply it to the milk robot, but there are many ventilation systems that stand and walk, and where the sun can play a significant role for the farmer. It also comes in other areas. In particular, with regard to the digitisation of farms, one has a technology that allows one to co-use, whether in the case of biogas or there are other small scale renewable possibilities on individual farms. We have more than 20,000 employees in the Norwegian electrification sector. It's going to increase as we phase out oil and gas. We're building a whole new industry. This is built up all over the country, it is not just south of Norway, where there is the least snow and most sundays – it fits all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e489	In Norway, we are so lucky to have almost zero-emission electricity production. Large parts of our energy supply are already based on renewable and climate-friendly energy sources – we should not forget that when discussing solar power. In the government platform, we point to the need to maintain and gradually strengthen the possibilities of self-produced energy for households, housing and agriculture. At the same time, we must ensure a well-driven and efficient power grid. To achieve our climate goals, electrification becomes very important. Electrification and new consumption patterns challenge the traditional grid, which is one of the most societally critical infrastructures we have. The NVE estimates that at all network levels there is an investment need of approx. 135 B.C.E. kr towards 2027. This has to be paid by all electricity consumers in the large fission layer as our mains power supply is – and then we have to make sure that we build efficiently. New solutions, such as: micronets, smart grids, solar energy, etc., could help to mitigate some of the investment needs of the traditional grid and thus dampen the network. It is therefore important to develop new solutions. Both important and joyful is it when business sees new opportunities and thus helps us get even more speed on development. There are clear indications that solar energy in Norway today is profitable. We've seen significant growth in the use of solar energy in recent years. The Government considers that the operation of the power system and the power trade must be based as far as possible on market solutions. At the same time, we have a comprehensive public tool to develop and stimulate the use of new energy technologies. The main instruments are established through the Norwegian Research Council, Enova and Innovation Norway. Overall, they can contribute to projects throughout the innovation chain from idea to technology deployment. Enova shall establish instruments to achieve sustainable market changes. The aim is not that support should be paid at all times, but that we help and help to develop good solutions, so that they will be competitive in the long term without state support. The framework for Enova’s activities is set out in four-year agreements. Within the framework of the agreement, it is up to Enova to give priority to areas, to develop programmes and to grant support to individual projects. The NVE proposal on power tariffs, which is now being consulted, will help us to avoid unnecessary network investments over time and keep the network leases down for all. Power tariffs will also ensure a fairer distribution of costs in the network. Power tariffs mean that the saving – through grid rental – of installing solar cells is somewhat reduced. This is because the installation of solar cells reduces the need for grid capacity to a small extent. Even with sun on the roof, most customers will need power from the web on cold and dark winter days. However, the changes proposed in the network tariffs will not reduce the savings of autoproducers of electricity through saved electricity costs and consumption charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e520	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e526	Oh, I just have to find the balance here-- after-suns after the weekend. I'm still out there meeting people with agricultural property. [[Laughter]] They're busy taking part in the green shift. Agriculture has even entered into an agreement with the government on greenhouse gas cuts of 5 million tonnes. At the same time, the conflicts surrounding the development of renewable energy on the wind turbine side are considerable, while we know that solar production could contribute to a strong market complement. Why will the government not help to speed up these processes, so that we get more solar energy in agricultural buildings? We also see that those in agriculture who have installed solar panels are struggling to sell surplus energy because they face formal obstacles.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e535	I do not initially agree with the representative of Myhrvold, because there has been a steady growth in the use of solar energy. It happens very positively, but if you listen to the debate that has been here today, it almost sounds like nothing has happened in the development of solar power. That's not the case. Developments in the use of solar power in Norway have been very positive in recent years. Only in 2018 it was distributed at the base of 15.3 million. SEK to 837 solar photovoltaic systems for private dwellings, among others. I'm really sorry that agriculture is also going to take part in it. I just think that the instruments are actually quite good today, and there is no doubt that we want to continue to support it. For this reason, Enova continues to have the possibility, for example: through the Enova grant, to grant aid to solar photovoltaic plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e540	In fact, last year the Swedes installed nine times more than what we did here in the country. That means that we have a pretty big potential. When I meet people in agriculture around the country who want to install solar panels, there's confusion about how the system works, and there's uncertainty about whether we can deliver surplus power on the web. Will the Council of State take the initiative to clean up the legislation, so that it is actually possible to provide surplus power on the network, to make use of the potential that exists on bar roofs and other operating buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e547	Once again, I mean it's drawn a picture that doesn't quite match reality. Solar photovoltaics are obviously something that more people are using today. We wouldn't have had the growth we've had, if not. I fully agree that we need support schemes that are designed in a way that triggers innovation and supports technology in the growth phase. I mean, we do, too. I'd like to warn you that we can control Enova in detail. We have very poor experience with politicians who choose solutions and technologies. It's Enova who has the competence to make complete assessments. I also believe that, if possible, there should be support schemes – as we already have, but even more solar support schemes – in that case there should be other instruments, not that it should be financed by everyone over the network. I don't think that's a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e554	The Council of State stated that the proposed power tariffs could reduce the profitability of the individual installation of solar installations around the country. Now this is just an NVE proposal, and it is for treatment in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. My question is whether the Council of State will ensure that we have a system of power tariffs that at least does not inhibit the deployment and deployment of solar power around the country – which does not impair its profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e559	As I said in my post, we are aware of that challenge, but at the same time, I believe that it is a very important principle that everyone is involved in bearing the costs of our common power grid. Even with solar cells on the roof you are dependent on being connected to the net, because you also need power when the sun does not shine and it is cold winter days, for example. In that case, we must use other instruments – which I also had in mind in a previous response – to stimulate more solar power, not use the grid as the only instrument. It is also important to remember that even with proposals for new power charges, there will still be money to save on installing your own power generation, for example. with solar cells. But as I said, there are other schemes that support under solar cells, one has the plus customer scheme, one has the exemption from electricity charges on self-produced electricity and other support schemes. I'm aware of that challenge that we're going to follow closely on it, but I think it's an important principle at the bottom that everyone needs to be involved in financing our common power grid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e566	I thank you for your answer and have another question to the Council of State. The majority in this room are today going to reject several of our suggestions. One of them is to install solar cells on roofs of public buildings, to require public tenders to establish solar cells. Even if this is voted down in the Storting today, will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that this type of requirement can be included in public tenders?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e571	I agree with the representative Haltbrecken that using public tenders to promote the green shift is an important part of climate policy. The government has announced an action plan for climate-friendly and environmentally friendly public acquisitions and green innovation, it is in a start-up phase now. With regard to energy-related issues in public tenders, I would like to strike a blow to think completely here as well. We must not forget that measures such as smart management of energy use, district heating and energy efficient construction play a very important role in the energy system. Fortunately, we already have quite a number of instruments in place here. It is important for the comprehensive transition we are about to make to the low-carbon society that it should be as cost-effective as possible. Yes, I agree with the main principle that it is good to use public tenders to promote the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e580	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e587	We've been talking about agriculture as an actor with a lot of ceilings. The municipal sector is another player with a large number of roof surfaces. I mentioned Gjøvik as an example. We've had a local election where we've written new cooperation agreements. There's always a shift between Gjøvik and Hamar. So in the cooperation platform in Gjøvik, the majority, who are the Center Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, have written that we're going to beat Hamar when it comes to roofing solar cells. They're going to put solar cells on the entire new Anchor Forest swimming pool – it's a big roof surface. But in Gjøvik we have pointed to the kindergartens, which have many roof surfaces. Where we have a great opportunity. Creating such competitions also in the municipal sector is important, because it means that one can use the hydropower in another way and get better income, among other things. for industry or other sales. Cabins are another area where there are many roof surfaces. And there's a lot of landowners that have distributed the area for cabin expansion, and we also have to see if we can use it this way. The SV then takes up its right of residence law in the proposal for a representative. The legislation is used to look at the possibilities of grants for housing law. We also have to see if you can impose on the builders of dwellings where there are no other possibilities, to place solar cells on the roof when you build. Loan schemes are also an important part of this when it comes to financing housing loans — a so-called green loan. This applies to more than the House Bank to stimulate it. So to the frame conditions. Governments have pointed to many of them. It's like those who produce their own power don't get rent. There's also an important part of the earnings here, which are few talking about, but which we need to get better at talking about. The more you produce, the less networked. That's a big part of the electricity cost for a consumer today. This we must continue to adapt to technology and to development. There is a great optimism about the use of solar cells today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e604	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e622	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a replacement of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e629	I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee, plus that I would like to pay tribute to the Centre Party, which has promoted an important principle case of ownership and taxation of wind power in Norway. Wind power on land has become competitive and there is growing interest in investing in wind power plants. After the matter had been settled in the Committee, the government has decided not to proceed with the power tax committee, which was also relevant for the taxation of wind power. It is thus uncertain how and when the government will possibly follow the principle of natural resource tax that can benefit the host municipalities. The Committee has a different majority from the Storting, and it is most likely that there will not be a majority for any of the Committee's good recommendations. The individual parties will explain their views, while in the rest of the article I concentrate on the Labour Party's policy. We have recorded that there is increasing resistance to wind power on land, and the Workers' Party believes it is urgent to put in place a policy that gives better acceptance to the population for investment in renewable energy. There is a need for much better processes for the establishment of wind turbines. This applies in particular to interaction with municipalities and local actors. New knowledge of the impact on natural diversity needs to be taken into account. The processes must be transparent and the different considerations must be knowledge-based. There is also a need for more research into the impact of existing facilities on the environment, natural diversity and neighbourhoods. The Workers' Party believes that natural resource taxes must be investigated and the aim must be to give the host municipalities a fair share of the value creation. It is crucial for the implementation of sustainable renewable energy projects. The Labour Party believes that security of supply and the achievement of climate objectives are national responsibilities, and even if we expect much better dialogue with the municipalities, we will not grant veto rights to the municipalities with regard to the establishment of wind power. The natural resources belong to the community and the principle of a fall-back shall be used as a basis for all use of natural resources. The Workers' Party believes that the concession period of a maximum of 30 years is in line with the principle of a fall-back, thus ensuring the Community's control of wind power resources. It is important that wind power installations be removed after the end of the concession period and that the landscape be restored as far as possible. We're not sure if today's arrangement provides sufficient guarantees that it does. We therefore ask the government to review the concession terms for both older installations and future ones. Recently, there have been several media redundancies about foreign investors that are not taxed on corporation tax in Norway. The result is that large revenues from Norwegian wind are sent right to tax havens. Some changes have been made with effect from 2019, but we are uncertain whether these are sufficient. We ask for them to be evaluated and for new measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e654	The government has set ambitious targets. Electrification of Norway is one of the objectives we are working on in order to contribute to fulfilling the Paris Agreement. For us here in Norway, electrification is synonymous with renewable energy. If we are to achieve these measures, wind power can eventually make a significant contribution to this energy mix, as a supplement to the backbone of our renewable energy, the adjustable water force. Wind power, however, is a theme that has become more topical in recent years. Several factors are the cause of this, and one of them is the work on the national framework for wind power, which has now progressed, as well as an increase in investment in wind power plants in order to achieve the objectives of the electricity certification scheme. In parallel, we also have costs that have fallen for projects, and there has been a greater awareness in the opinion of these projects, when they have now been updated. But concessions given several years ago have created local protests when they've been started. What one believed one had said yes to, might have evolved to become a different plant than one thought, yes, until that time. There seems to be a great deal of agreement across all parties that the concession rules must be streamlined, and that a tax regime must be put in place to ensure that the revenue from wind turbines also gives value to the community. Here, it is important that values are also left locally, so that development also has legitimacy in the community. Right, there's probably a slightly different approach to relapse than the Center Party and the Workers' Party are prefects. Yes, there are some similarities between hydropower and wind power, but they also differ at an important point. Regulatory hydropower is a large project that has been established for several generations. Wind power, on the other hand, is currently a young industry with plants that are largely mature for replacement when the concession period is out. That the state would then take over the end-of-life windmills did not seem rational. Because they are on, they are also largely rented out by private landowners or municipalities. Right, a rather has to go through contractions in the concession terms in order to assert that an even better degree of assurance is that there is an economy in the projects to carry out the renovation and restoration of the facilities after an additional concession period. But this has nothing to do with relapses. Securing the restoration of areas after an additional concession period is one of the elements that the ministry is currently considering when the concession rules are for evaluation and remediation. Proposals from the proposers are already being evaluated in the department. We therefore find no reason to believe that the government should work on what they are already doing. The government party is therefore not going to enter into the proposals that we are asked to make today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e671	Wind power has literally been in the wind in recent years, and the attitudes towards wind power outside the municipality of Norway have in very many cases changed completely. In Rogaland a few years ago, concessions were given to wind power over a low shoe. It was pressed from all sides, and the Senter party alone would wallpaper the county with 1,000 windmills. Now both the Center Party and the municipalities meet themselves at the door. Lots of things have changed since then. Wind was not profitable, technology was not fully developed, and it is easy to see today that many of the concessions that have been extended have been unfortunate. I don't think they're bad luck just for municipalities and landowners who get negatively affected, but for the whole industry, when one sees the reactions that are coming and that hit the entire wind power industry as a whole. Introducing relapses on projects that have a lifetime of about 25 years, I consider to be of little use. We must not end with the state taking over projects that others would liquidate and clean up. Then it must be more important that we can impose and ensure that the builder has guarantees of cleaning and repatriation when the concessions expire. I look forward to changing concession rules, like the proposers, and I believe that the Council of State should make a big announcement about wind both on land and at sea. This could include new claims for concessions and for taxes and other compensation to the municipalities concerned. I am in any case very pleased that it is likely to be a changed and more holistic approach to wind power. Much more attention needs to be paid to the social economy, including natural interventions and losses, as well as access to the network, the need for power and not least the economy. A proposal on local veto law is also being promoted today and a concession is to be granted in line with local wishes. This is something the Progress Party strongly supports, but we are not going to vote for, and I would like to justify this: the Progress Party does not want to support expansions that do not have the desired social benefit, even if the municipalities want to expand. The need for power must be present and network connection costs must be fully covered by the project. But then we see that there can be installations located in two municipalities, where the municipalities concerned can have their own opinion, and then we have projects that can be crucial for other businesses. This is just a more practical approach, and I would like to make it clear that it will be extremely far inside of us to grant a concession that is contrary to local municipal government decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e688	Norway is a country with a lot of wind and thus favoured with large wind resources. In recent years, wind power has become competitive with hydropower, and we notice great interest in investing in shore-based wind power. In this way, developments in wind power may have gone a little too fast when it comes to public ownership and the lack of tax regime for wind. Often we also see wind power being compared to hydropower. Both make extensive use of natural resources and produce the same goods in the same market. However, unlike in the hydropower sector, there are mainly foreign capital forces behind investments in wind power, and there are no restrictions on such investors. Recent examples have been found that large revenues from wind farms in Norway are not taxed by company taxes in Norway. We have seen that the foreign owners of the Tellene wind power plant in Rogaland send large revenues from Norwegian wind to a tax-free island in the Caribbean. For the wind power that is being developed, it is not a good enough piece of legislation even if you use a general resource that is geographically and to a large extent nature. Today, more and more wind turbines are being bought up by foreign interests. Today, the centre party has promoted these proposals because we want a locally anchored development of wind power that preserves landscapes and natural qualities and existing industries and contributes income to local communities. In rural development, this must be in line with local and local government decisions, and national ownership must be ensured. In line with the long-standing Norwegian tradition of natural resource use, there is a need to introduce a tax regime for the wind power sector that ensures both Norway and Norway a share of the value creation generated by its natural resources and that ensures their fair share of natural resource municipalities. The centre party believes that the wind and natural areas, like the water, oil and gas, are a resource belonging to the community. We are therefore proposing to introduce provisions to allow municipalities that allocate areas to wind power to receive more of the income from a natural resource tax, and that proposals for a wind-return scheme such as that for hydropower should be examined. In addition, local acceptance of wind power is important. Therefore, the Centre also promotes proposals for a local veto right in the municipalities, that one should say no if one does not want to set aside land for such development. I am surprised that the Progress Party does not participate in such a proposal. You've been able to read in the media lately that this is what they should be on. But they say as usual one thing in the media and vote for something completely different in the main hall. I'm bringing up the suggestions that the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e705	The representative Sandra Borch has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e710	The world faces two fundamental environmental challenges. It's the climate crisis, and it's the insane loss of natural diversity. As a society, we need to solve both of these challenges. Until today, much of our power development, whether wind power or hydropower, has gone at the expense of important natural values. At the same time, this has given us an emission-free power and power generation that is cleaner than in most other countries. But even though nearly 100 pst. of our power generation is renewable and emission-free, half of our energy consumption is still fossil. We need to get rid of that, and then more renewable energy is needed here, as well as, of course, energy efficiency improvement. We're going to have to learn from the power build we've seen in the last few years. Parts of it have triggered great protests, the last year against wind power. Therefore, when it comes to building renewable energy, we need to take far greater account of nature and of our indigenous people, together, than what has been done up to today. That is why we look forward to the government proposing amendments to the concession processes in wind turbines. We hope the changes will be so extensive that they have to be dealt with by Stortinget. If not, we're afraid there's going to be faltering on a system that's too bad. In addition, we need to learn how hydropower was built up in Norway. We made sure that the hydropower was owned by the public, and that there were limits to how much private interest could be owned by the common resource as the hydropower is. We also have to do that for the wind power. Just as the water is the property of the community, so is the wind. I am a little surprised when in the debate on wind power I hear people who are concerned that there are so many foreign actors inside the wind power side. It is only SV that today is promoting a proposal that could have done something about that situation. Only we are behind the proposal that wind power should have the same ownership requirements as we have for a lot of hydropower. I encourage the parties concerned that there is incoming foreign capital to vote in favour of SV's proposal that the same requirements apply to wind power as too much hydropower. In addition, we have to provide for tax rules that leave the community with the gain, not least the municipalities that make their areas available. I'll bring up the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e725	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e730	There are many good reasons to discuss the wind power regime now. We govern the overall framework conditions of the red-green parties. In the last ten years, a lot of wind power has been developed in Norway, perhaps surprisingly much, and in particular the red-green parties should take note. Together with the framework conditions we have had, we have had a scheme of green certificates, a kind of input tariff that has stimulated many concession applications and a lot of wind power development in Norway. Today's government parties and the Progress Party are involved in discussing how to regulate this over the next decades and beyond. It involves many areas. Looking at the concession regime is one of them. It has alerted the state councils to a review of it. The Planning and Building Act is also applicable in this way. Today, there are technologies that make it possible to visualize increasingly higher masts, but also more infrastructure development, with roads and other, in order to get more and more masters out into areas. We have heard from many of the local debates that it has been a challenge to imagine what aesthetics this contributes to, but also sound and noise. The tax guess is another part we have to look at. There's also a discussion about ownership. State power is the largest builder of wind power in Norway, and Norseide Hydro is the largest buyer. We must also include that in the debate. So far, I have not heard any suggestion that we should prevent State power from owning outside Norway. One has to consider discussing that part. If one believes that there should be no foreign capital in Norway, why should Norwegian capital be abroad? We now have the time to discuss how we will continue to do this. At the same time, there is another new technology that creates opportunities for Norway. We have had a debate earlier today on the possibilities of solar power. It is important to say that very few municipalities in Norway have said no, which have been overrun. On the contrary, the state has intervened and said no where municipalities have said yes, and where there has been too much interference. There's a kind of a fall-back on wind power today: one gets a concession for only 25 years. Under the second power, one gets up to 100 years. What we need to start discussing is something they've already started with in Denmark, and that's the waste part and recycling of windmills. In Denmark, the 4,000 windmills that go down in a short time. We in the Nordic region should discuss whether we should have a common resource use of it and not create each of our waste lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e749	It blows a headwind around the country against the wind power industry. It is not strange when we see the consequences of wind turbines for nature, and not least where the money from wind power ends up. At Smøla, 100 oats are killed by windmills. In Germany, 1 200 tons of insects die each year from windmills. On the Hitra and Südmark mountains, Hubro, a endangered species, was found along the way in the construction process. Half of the wind power in Norway now has foreign ownership. 16 of 18 wind turbines built between 2018 and 2020 are owned by non-resident companies. These conflict-affected facilities do not pay for Norwegian schools, Norwegian hospitals or roads and infrastructure. We allow foreign owners to move large sums of money out of the country. We pay them to destroy Norwegian nature and run off with profits through subsidies to the wind power industry. Then it's not nice that people stand up to this policy. Most people know that the natural areas and winds belong to the Norwegian people and are to be managed for the benefit of the community and future generations, and we need a much better law to ensure this. We see that today's system is not working. In Egersund, for example, the plant that was built was not what was requested. The areas of intervention are three times larger than those listed in the applications. Elsewhere, we see that the windmills are much larger than what is taken into account in the evaluations prior to the process. Last year, the UN Panel on Nature presented a report showing how the loss of habitats is one of the three main causes of up to one million plant and animal species being threatened. Where are wind turbines built in Norwegian nature? Yes, mostly in untouched areas. An average of 800 metres of road is required for each wind turbine, and the roads require explosion and other interventions to be large enough to carry parts to turbines well over 100 metres. In these questions, the Red and the Wind Resistance have two thoughts in their heads at once: we cannot save the climate in a way that at the same time destroys the nature and systems that we depend on, which ensures clean air, clean water and not least the food that we eat. We must secure the community, secure nature and ensure that people are heard, and take on board that resistance to the wind power industry is massive for good reasons. Red says no to all new wind turbines on land. We want clean-up after wind power plants that are out of operation. Not least, we also need to ensure that taxes and profits from wind farms benefit Norway and do not end up in a post office in Cayman Islands.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e765	Both wind power and hydropower generation are the exploitation of natural resources, but the actual and legal basis is very different. The concession for the construction and operation of wind turbines is granted for a maximum duration of 30 years. This time period fits well with the service life of wind turbines. In the case of hydropower, however, concessions are granted without a time limit. The considerations behind the requirement of government ownership with control and control in the case of unlimited use of hydropower resources have very little to do with the time-limited use of wind power resources. After the end of the concession period, the authorities have full control over the use of the wind resource. Nor is it appropriate to derogate from the general principle that private investors can engage in wind power generation. This is as in the second industry and in line with our obligations under international law. There will be significant disadvantages associated with a demand for wind power receding at the end of the concession period. Repatriation to the state is not suitable for ensuring good management of wind resources in the future. The wind power that is now being developed is the result of different governments and magnifications since the turn of the century to enable us to use wind power for renewable development here to land. Local acceptance has been important in the treatment of the concessions that are now being realised. In practice, there has been hardly any concession during this period without the support of the municipality for the project. In the review of the entire wind power concession system the ministry is now in the process of implementing, consideration for even stronger local involvement will be central. I would also like to contribute to a legislative framework that ensures adequate control of the operation of the installations and to the full follow-up of concessionaires of the required concession conditions for the development and operation of wind power plants. I am concerned that the continued development of wind power should contribute to economic development and employment, and we should take proper account of the local population and our nature. I want a good system that follows up the obligations and responsibilities of the concessionaire when wind turbines are shut down after the end of the concession period. In the review of the concession system, I assume that we will have a regulation in place that provides sufficient clarity in terms of warranty. The provision of the guarantee shall be sufficient for the decommissioning and restoration of the site and shall be in place in a timely manner during the concession period. Tax matters fall within the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, and further tax issues therefore need to be referred to him. The government has not taken a decision on whether to introduce land-interest taxes and natural resource taxes for wind turbines, but here we will consider possible further follow-up. In the case of tax adjustment, profits derived from activity in Norway should be taxed here. Profit movements are unfortunate and the possibility for taxpayers to make arrangements to reduce the tax burden in Norway should be counteracted. The Ministry of Finance presented in the 2018 budget for measures designed to counter profit movements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e788	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e793	Of course, I have questions related to taxation, but they were referred to finance. I have another question about the process that is now being reviewed in order to improve the concession process. I have asked a written question about it, which was answered very well, but I have also been contacted by the organisations, who are wondering to what extent they will be able to be involved in the future. They have not yet received an invitation to dialogue meetings to make recordings, in order to improve concession conditions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e800	We all know that the level of conflict around wind power development has been very high, and the fronts are very steep. That's also why I want more dialogue in the process we now have, to hear everyone involved. This applies both to those who want to expand, and to all others who are affected — whether they are local democracy, organisations with vision, etc. I think that's absolutely crucial, because we have to talk and get the discussion on a good track. There is much of the foundation for us to now alert this review and see the need to tighten it up. I am concerned that we should still be able to have wind power expansion in this country. I think it's a good thing; we need more renewable power. But then we have to make sure that we have a framework and a concession system that ensures that it is wanted locally, and that we get it into a good framework. My impression is that the builders also see the need and are interested in that dialogue. Of course, we also need to ensure participation from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e807	Thanks for the answer. Another issue related to wind power is retrocession. I do not know if the Council of State has the opportunity to respond to how much of those who currently have a concession, who have concession conditions where there are no clear demands for return, but are there opportunities and grounds for making stricter demands now – after they have been granted the concession – to those who may not have it within the concessions until now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e812	I think it's very important that we distinguish between those who have already received a concession and those who might be given a concession in the future. It also has something to do with the predictability of our system and the obligations we have. We can't make any changes to concessions given. But I think this question becomes one of the important things we have to consider in what we are doing in the future, and therefore I kind of share the intention of the Workers' Party. I just don't understand the desire for a relapse, I don't quite understand what the point of something like that should be. I don't understand what might fall back. Is that the turbine? Is there an area that has been affected by industrial activities that have been there, and then is it the responsibility of the State to clean up after those who have been there? I think that is wrong. I believe that, through the provision of guarantees in concessions given in the future, we need to ensure that the clearing job is done by those who have run this business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e817	The last year has, among other things, TV2 revealed that foreign owners of the Tellene wind farm in Rogaland send large revenues from Norwegian wind to a tax-free island in the Caribbean. In recent times, we have also experienced great local resistance to wind power generation as it provides great natural interference. There are a number of issues that now do not exactly give local enthusiasm that the municipalities are willing to reduce the area to wind power, which we have seen makes it difficult to put in place a national framework plan for wind power. My question to the Council of State is whether she is willing to assess the taxation of the value creation of foreign companies in Norway and whether it is willing to make a proposal for a natural resource tax on wind power to benefit municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e824	Again: Tax is not my responsibility. What we said on the part of the government when we abandoned the proposals from the power tax committee was that we have not taken a decision on the proposals to introduce them, for example. rent taxes and natural resource taxes, but that we will consider a further follow-up to them. With regard to the second part of the question from the representative, I believe that we must include in the picture that, for example. the case of the Telles is also concerned with the depreciation rules introduced for wind power. This was quite a broad consensus about in Stortinget. Of course, wind turbines in Norway will also contribute taxes to Norway. It is an important principle, and on the part of the government, we have implemented a lot of measures to counteract profit movements and the eroding of the tax base. We have e.g. tightened the interest-rate limitation rule, and we have introduced country-by-country reporting. Those measures work. Of course, I agree with your intention. I just think that the Center Party also has to tell the background and the story of why the situation is the way it is, among other things. on Tellenes. It gets a little bit under-communicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e833	I am pleased that the Council of State in its statement says that – when looking at the concession rules – she will look at the requirements related to clean-up after the end of the operation. I think it's a lot to pick up there. In one of the replies from the Council of State to the Committee, it appears that today there are three facilities which have been granted a concession, to which no cleaning requirements have been imposed after the end of operation. My question to the Council of State is whether, in her work in the future, she will also look at and make demands on the three plants where there is no requirement for clean-up after the end of the operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e840	Once again, I think I have to answer a little as I did in the past: it is very important to distinguish between those who have already received a concession under the legislation in force today and those who have been in force, and those who may receive a concession after the changes that may occur. Energy authorities may, for example: do not withdraw concessions granted, but there may be specific cases where, for example: has come up with substantial new technical knowledge that will allow us to reconsider the impact studies that have been carried out in order to ensure that the basis for the concession is in place. I don't think I can go into the individual issues here and now, but I fully agree that we have to make sure that we have a code that ensures that those who are given a concession in the future also clean up afterwards after the concession has expired.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e850	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e857	We note that SV wants to set requirements for public ownership of wind power similar to what we have today for a large adjustable water power. Although it is enough in line with SV's basic statement that everything that is Norwegian public owned is good, it would probably have led to several of the projects that are today built, or under construction, not having been of any kind. The reason is that foreign capital has lower return requirements than Norwegian capital until now. It is often underestimated that investments that are made in wind power, create development, increase value creation and create jobs. Nevertheless, for the legitimacy of constructing wind turbines, it is worth considering that some of the value creation comes back to the host municipalities and the community. There is a gap in all the most important, together with an increase in renewable energy production, which a wind farm is throwing away.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e864	I have to say that in this debate you have to hear a lot. Earlier today, we heard a touching concern from the Progress Party for Norwegian Nature. I have to say that is new tones from the party that have stood at the forefront in order to bring down valuable areas in Norway. But if the Progress Party takes this concern for Norwegian nature into account in other matters as well, for example. when it comes to the cultivation of land or valuable natural areas under asphalt, under quadruple highways, I believe that Norwegian nature can face a bright future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e869	I felt the need to respond to the Council of State, which in its reply challenged the Workers' Party in case of a fall-back. I believe that we in the Workers' Party were very clear in our contribution: we believe that it is time-limited, upholds the principle that natural resources belong to the community, in the same way as we have previously suggested that it should also be a time limit in aquaculture, and there we also talked about 25-30 years. I just want to make it clear, because it came up in the sequence change, that that's what's going on from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e874	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e891	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e898	I can start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on the current setting. There are, of course, two rounds of wording that we have already debated in connection with the State budget. The background to this proposal for a representative is the reference to a text that was proposed by the Ministry of Climate and Environment, which has been blackmailed by many parties in the position we adopted on the State budget. One has also had a report from the nutrition committee that is behind the comments made here. There is a broad picture of a balanced policy based on the two-part objective of Norwegian anti-terrorism policy. One should consider both the grazing priority areas, the grazing industries and the reindeer industries and on the other hand to have viable populations of predatory game. With that background, many of the same formulations based on the majority of the state budget proposal at that time – Right, Left, Christian People’s Party and Left – now also have multiple comments supported by the Labour Party, where one assumes that the administration of the bear must be based on the robberies agreement, the need for a balanced policy, and where one points out that individual assessments of the damage potential should be made before the inside is possible. In the state budget, as in this case, there is also an indication that the robberies deal is solid. In the extension of that, I see that there is a loose proposal by Jon Georg Dale on behalf of the Progress Party. That proposal also points to the two-part objective and that one should support the decisions contained in the predatory game settlement. It's a natural extension of the plural remarks I've just made, so on behalf of the government party, I can say that we're going to join it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e909	The Labour Party will continue to contribute to the achievement of a two-part objective for Norwegian predatory policy. One shall ensure that all the major predatory game species in Norwegian nature and, at the same time, ensure the use of outlanding areas by agricultural and domestic interests, as well as the rapid and efficient extraction of predators that are particularly close to the population and the population, in accordance with the Nature Diversity Act, and where the quality of life of humans is affected. The Labour Party is under the current predatory policy and the frameworks set out by the adopted predatory game agreements, which are based on the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention. The Labour Party is committed to ensuring viable predatory strains in Norway in line with the Nature Diversity Act and our international obligations. The size has set targets for predator species bear, gloupe, yerv and wolf. Some of the reasons for the high level of conflict with predators are perceived by many as a lack of willingness to comply with the agreed stock targets. The Labour Party believes that it is essential that all parties have respect for the goals set by the Stortinget. The Labour Party believes that the leaders of the agreements will help to mitigate the level of conflict between the predatory game management and the grazing industries, and will once again make it clear that we expect the authorities and the administration to follow up. The Labour Party will vote in favour of the proposal tabled by the Opposition Party, the Progress Party, and we will also vote in favour of the proposals of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e918	As we have also said in previous speeches in other debates dealing with predators other than these, there will always be different lines of conflict in predator policy. It has the Storting sought solution through a balanced solution in various wild game settlements back in time, and which form the basis for the administrator a drive. For bears, it has been shown to be particularly demanding both to be able to keep the stock up on the stock targets set, while at the same time protecting the necessary pasturage interests of many areas in the districts. For example, Trøndelag is such an area where grazing has had a high potential – parts of the trøndelag are empty for grazing animals. In the past, it was largely based on the situation we've had with the bear. We are forced to manage this in a way that keeps us down the level of conflict, and that it does not increase further in the years to come – for the sake of a reasonable balance in predatory game policy, but also for the sake of those who have and run important industries in the districts. So I realize that it is particularly demanding to achieve effective management of the balance between predatory game priority areas and grazing priority areas in Northern Ireland, where one sees that there are several different predators that have hold, and where the zone divisions open are inappropriate if one is to get to a resilient management. There is a special situation, so I want to encourage the government to have a particularly good dialogue with predatory wildlife subjects there in the future, in order to try to mitigate the level of conflict and the pressure that livestock producers also experience there. In addition, we have put forward a loose proposal that I am pleased that we are now getting broad support in the Stortinget. It helps us to be able to keep the balance even in the future. With that I will address that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e927	The representative, Jon Georg Dale, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e932	I would also like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. This is neither the first nor the very last time we deal with predatory policies in this committee and in this Chamber. I am pleased that we across the parties can work as well together on a case complex that arouses so much debate in the public domain. The framework for the current predatory policy has been set by the adopted predatory game agreements, which are based on the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention. So our predatory management is based on the two-part objective that we have in predatory policy. It is a responsible management of the large predators in Norwegian nature, while taking into account the use of the land areas by agricultural and domestic interests. Therefore, of course, we assume that the bear management is based on the robberies agreement. In areas where the stock target has not been met and where there are challenges related to the boundary between grazing priority areas and bear management areas, individual assessments of the damage potential shall be made prior to possible removal. In extending this and the comments made by the government parties on the matter, we are voting in favour of resolving the proposal for the Progress Party. In principle, we did not see the need for decisions in the light of the comments we have, but we agree with the content and therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e939	The breeding game agreement laid down the basis for the provisions on grazing priority areas and the breeding area for bears. In the agreement, it says, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘It is assumed that the achievement of the stocking level of bear will not require land beyond the scope of today’s breeding areas.’ And... ‘It shall not be predators representing a potential for damage in priority grazing areas for domestic animals and calving areas for domestic animals’. These points from the predatory game agreement have also been taken into account in the Granavolden platform, which states that the government is to ensure ‘a clear geographical differentiation between predators and grazing animals’. In spite of this, the Ministry of Climate and Environment concluded in its budget that, in order to increase the population of brown bear against the stock target, the government would indicate that areas with a known incidence of intestines must be prioritised to bear until the national stock target has been reached. In that case, it would have dramatic consequences for several parts of the country that currently have challenges with brown bear, because in reality, no matter how much damage the bear has done, it would not be possible to take out pests. Such management will lead to the conversion of large parts of today's grazing areas into bear management areas. Among other things, the entire Trøndelag will become a predatory game area after such an interpretation, as it is registered within grazing priority areas and municipalities such as Meråker and Grung and the Fosen peninsula. Such an interpretation is not in line with the Robbery Agreement and has also been challenged by departments other than the Ministry of Climate and Environment. It should be unnecessary to clarify this, but over and over again we see that both the Department and the Council of State break with the Robbery Agreement, which has a broad political anchor in this Chamber. That's why the Central Party has to make such proposals over and over again to remind the Left Party that there is actually a settlement on the basis of the administration we have today. The management of the bear must be based on the predatory game agreement. A balanced policy towards grazing is important. The wording introduced by the Government in the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2020 is suitable for creating unnecessary uncertainties about this. That is why we consider it absolutely necessary and important to address these proposals. Then I see that it is obviously difficult for the Progress Party to support proposals that come from the Central Party. I believe that all the proposals that the Central Party has made today have broad support in the Progress Party. I will go ahead as a good example, because the Senter Party supports proposals with which we agree. That is why we will support the resolution that the Progress Party has been promoting here today. I would also like to address the proposals behind the Senterpartiet.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e964	Then the representative Sandra Borch has taken up the proposals that the Central Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e969	Initially, I would like to stress that the government is following up the decisions and leadership of the Storting, including the Berne Convention, the Natural Diversity Act and the Garbage Bill from 2004 and 2011. In this way, we intend to achieve the two-part goal of having both grazing animals and predatory game in Norway. So it's imperative to ensure both of these things, but then I'll first say that fortunately we're in a situation where the loss of sheep to predatory game hasn't been lower since we started to record the loss of sheep to predatory game. The loss of sheep to bear has also gone down somewhat in recent years, and that's good. In particular predatory areas, claims for injury against the bear are granted in nine out of ten cases, and on average 11 dead bears are registered in Norway every year for the last five years. The first proposal we are discussing today concerns zone management. The basis for a clear zone management is the predators’ own management plans, where different areas are prioritised to relatively predatory and grazing animals. The starting point for a precipitous and clear zone management is that the file targets can be reached within the priority predatory game areas as far as possible. On the one hand, it means that the area that is given priority to some predators is functional for the species, on the other hand, that means that the priority pastures must be large enough and suitable for grazing. A good differentiation that takes into account both grazing and predatory game ensures to a greater extent that we can reach the stock measure, which the Storting is aware of. In the second and third proposals, reference is made to two points in the game of robbers. In comparison, there are a number of formulations that mention the importance of predatory game. It is also a series of formulations that mention the concern of grazing animals. These formulations cannot be read in isolation. The individual formulations must be balanced against the other, so that we can find the right balance. An important point that Size is normally very busy in these equations is the stock measure. They're also busy. So I notice that the proposers, when we talk about wolves, are very busy with the stock target, and it seems that in a way it's going to be the only thing that governs the policy. I don't agree with that. I also don't agree that the stock measure should be the only one that controls when it relates to bear. Just to illustrate, we're well below the size of the bear. If it was the only thing we could control, we could hardly have shot a bear in Norway. But we do, because they do damage. And it illustrates that one is required to take care of several things when one drives with predatory game management. In the light of the proposal being put forward, reference is made to a wording of the budget proposal for 2020. Its background is that the bear's stock target has not been reached. It was also dealt with and commented on when a person went through the budget, and the majority stated that one should take individual consideration. I totally agree with them. So it's like with bears like with other predators and the care of grazing animals that it's not easy to find a good balance, but I mean essentially that we can do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e986	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e992	We were many who noticed that the government in the state budget for 2020 stated that ‘in order to increase the population of brown bear against the stock target, the government will give the lead that the area of known occurrence of interiors must be prioritised to bear until the national stock target is reached.’ My question to the Council of State is what you really meant by that. Does this mean that large parts of today's pastures are actually converted into bear management areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e999	No, that doesn't mean that. But that means that one has to take individual assessments when inside, as in this case, does damage, and they do damage outside areas that are set aside for bear. That means that this is something I have to look at in concrete terms, for example. whether the place of refuge of the bees is outside a bear's area, or whether it is mainly within a bear's area, but that it has stretched out, etc. Such assessments are well-suited to manage. The reason why this is demanding is that we are so well below the standard of bear, and then the consideration of innermost is entirely decisive. It's tempting to ask back, if the Center Party is in favour of this goal: what measures do they think we should take in order to come up with the stock target Stortinget has agreed for bear?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1008	I notice the Council's response, but he's really just creating even more uncertainty about what's grazing priority areas. What happens if there goes a bear bin into a grazing priority area in Trøndelag? Will the Council of State then stop the withdrawal of the bear's beak because you're going up on the stock target?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1013	There must be a concrete assessment, and then there are several elements involved in that management. I mentioned some of them in my answer to the first question. There's nothing new about it. This is the defaults set by Storting. It follows, of course, the management of wild game, and if there are complaints, the department also follows the instructions given by the Stortinget in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1018	The interest in taking a line on the state council was not so perceptive, so some of us have to help fill the quota. With the Council's response now, which is really the same as that of the State budget, namely that the government has to take an individual assessment of whether or not to take part in pasture-priority areas, I have to ask: what does the proposal that might get a majority here today mean? What does it matter? For that proposal, it specifies that one should not change the management between grazing priority areas and predatory priority areas in relation to that contained in the predatory game agreement. And it says that you're assuming that it's not going to require area beyond today's breeding area. So what will the proposal adopted here today mean by a change in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1025	The proposal now under way to be adopted, which seems to have wide multiples, clearly determines the importance of a two-part management, of taking into account grazing animals. I understand that I'm important to the Storting, and of course we will follow that up. Those who support the proposal, and who voice it today, have also made it very clear in comments in the vote that it is important to make individual assessments. So do we. That's how management works. I understand that much of the background for this is the demanding situation that occurred especially in Namdalen and in Trøndelag last summer. And I want to stress that I fully understand that it's demanding for them that debt there. There are difficult legal and administrative assessments when entering and taking a fall decision, and when one may have to keep to reach the Storing stock target. Such assessments will not be simple in the future either, but the fact that the Stortinge adopts the proposal that comes from the Progress Party is, of course, we take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1030	It remains equally unclear how environmental management and state councils will focus on the proposal that is being adopted here today. The last two seasons have not been granted within Meråker, which is a grazing priority area, in Selbu, which is a grazing priority area, in Grong, which is a grazing priority area, and in Lexvik in Inner Fosen, which is grazing priority area. But the proposal says that now you're going to give birth permits in pasture-priority areas, as I read it, because you're not going to change what's in the predatory game deal. So I must continue to ask: when the environmental management has now consistently refused to grant permission for killing within pasture priority areas of Trøndelag, it should not be said there that the practice cannot continue with the proposal adopted here today, because the proposal adopted here today is tightening up in relation to the points of the robberies agreement. 2.2.14, which says something about which management area is the predatory area of Trøndelag, and which is not?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1035	Now I'm only going to have to repeat the fact that that proposal came today early, and of course we have to be allowed, if it's decided in Stortinget, to study it carefully in the administration, before I can answer one hundred percent here on how it will affect the administration in the future. But we stick to what the Storting agrees, including that proposal. At least at first sight, I do not read that proposal so that one with it will automatically give birthrights if a bear, completely independent of the damage potential, regardless of whether it is an indoors or not, regardless of all that one should consider, moves outside a bear priority area to possibly go back again. So I'd say the way the representative Arnstad reads it, doesn't seem reasonable. But it is clear that if the Storting decides this, we will of course go in and study it carefully, and I am sure that the administration will also do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1042	The proposal, which seems to be getting more today, clearly states that one should follow the management of the predatory game agreement with a view to preserving grazing. Then the questions asked by the representative Arnstad are relevant, including:What kind of practical meaning does this have? There is no doubt that the proposal is made on the basis of the fact that the grazing industries in the areas covered by the Storting have been treated as grazing priority areas. The question to the Council of State is therefore: how can a person contribute to, by following the decisions currently taken in the Grand Duchy, that the result is that people who are actively feeding in the districts can be confident that if there is a bear in pasture priority areas, there will still be a decisive focus on grazing industries when dealing with claims for harm?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1049	There are a number of ways to make sure that one is busy when measuring them as the representative of Dale. He was even inside some of them in his main post. For example, one must have a functional management area for predators, and he himself pointed to the situation one has in region 7, and asked us to find a solution to that. That's also what I'm busy about. There's one thing that makes it easier to feed. One has to have a functional administration area, and it's totally independent of whether it's larger or smaller, but it has to do with whether the quality of the area is good, and that one can handle both. I read the proposal submitted by the representative Dale, so that the Stortinget clearly indicates that it is important to pay close attention to the grazing industry in order to assess the breeding conditions, and I agree with that. Then I also read what the representative Dale and the rest of the committee say in their comments in the vote, that one has to take individual consideration, and of course we will take that into account. I can see that the Storting is in agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1058	It is natural that one takes individual consideration, but the starting point for this is the two-part objective of the predatory game agreement, where the care of grazing is given much more weight than the concern of predators in pasture-priority areas. It is within the framework of the predatory game agreement that one has the opportunity to make such specific assessments. I want to underline that from the pulpit, too, that it must be the clear understanding behind this. It is not the Storting that makes single assessments in individual cases, but it is a clear framework for the majority that has been and that has been the basis for the management of wild game in the light of both 2004 and 2011. It is crucial that the Council of State pretty soon clears that the proposal for which we are today going to have a majority in the Storting actually has practical implications for the administration of pasture-priority areas. Can the state council do it now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1064	The right side is that we are far on the way, although I have to reiterate that the proposal has been submitted today, but there is no doubt that one should place considerable emphasis on the care of grazing when one is outside the areas set aside for predators. It's like a very basic premise in a predatory game like that – no doubt about it. It's for the government to follow up. I am also pleased that the representative stressed that the Stortinget could not or should not conduct individual proceedings in such cases, as I have well understood that the Centre Party is more committed to, but the framework must be clear. Then it is clear that the care of grazing animals is very important, and then there are also many other things that one has to take with him, including. the stock measures agreed by the Storting, which of course are also part of the management.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1071	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1078	Bear management in Trøndelag has been a major challenge for a long time. There has been serious damage, in particular, to the management of the bear – but also to the failure of the jerve act one has had year after year – and it has been a situation that has now persisted for several years. This isn't in the wolf zone. Here one can not push ahead with the fact that there are no more sheep, on the contrary: the grazing areas in Trøndelag are some of the most active grazing areas in the country, both in the case of sheep, in the case of domestic – the southern Sami domestic industry – and in the case of other livestock. So there's a lot of people who have a very active grazing practice. The problem is not that an automatic killing permit for a bear outside the bear zone is granted; the problem is the opposite: it automatically refuses any killing permit for a bear outside the bear management zone, i.e. in the middle of the grazing priority areas. That is the problem, and that is a persistent problem over several years and in many municipalities. In Meråker they have had major problems with it, and they operate large sheep farms, and there are not so many alternative livestock options in Meråker. In Grong they have had major problems associated with it, and Namdalen is a large and important grazing area in Trøndelag. In the Inner Fosen, located far outside the bear management zone, they have had huge problems with it, and getting through to the environmental management in terms of those problems has been very, very difficult. That is the background to the proposal that the Central Party has put forward here today. What we're really doing in the proposal is just clarifying what's in the predatory game agreement, that one shouldn't require land beyond the scope of today's breeding grounds to achieve the stocking target for bear. But the environmental management has gone on a line where they don't give birth permits for the interior far outside the bear management area. The Council of State and the government now have to take over, and I'm a little worried about this exchange of lines, because I don't quite understand if the Council of the Left has taken over the fact that one today can get a majority for a proposal that actually means that one should stick to the bear management area that you have, and then one should also grant a moulting permit in pasture-priority areas if it's inside. I think that's an important signal to give, because already the farmers in Grong are told that they must either not release their sheep this summer, or they must take them down from the pasture much earlier. They must therefore take responsibility and burden for a non-functioning predatory policy and for an environmental management that will not take seriously the importance and importance of the grazing industry in Trøndelag and that they have a major problem today with the ongoing administrative regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1087	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1104	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1111	I think we have to be honest and say that the matter that we are dealing with today, we have been given because it has been revealing in the press for several months. The newspaper has done a formidable job of revealing the threat to the use of fluorine in skistorage, both for nature and for people – both for sports and for factory workers. In worst cases, life may have been lost because of this use, in addition to the danger it poses to nature. I would like to thank Mr SV, who has promoted these proposals here in Stortinget. The Committee has been divided into two parts in its proceedings. The four bourgeois parties have chosen not to support any of the proposals, while the three red-green parties and the Green Party have chosen to support all of them. I believe that then Minister for Climate and Environment Ola Elvestuen, who has been the one to deal with the matter while it was going on in the debate, has been too passive. He has agreed to the problem, but has not been willing to use any policy instruments. In the comments on the case, the four civil parties state that there must be ‘limits to policy’. This is an argument we are very used to hearing from the Party of Advancement and the Right, but that the Left and Christian People's Party also believes that the use of harmful natural toxins is not a political question, is the novelty of these two parties, and it shows how they are influenced by the government cooperation and the rhetoric we are used to hearing from the Right and the Advancement Party. When policy does not take responsibility, I am pleased that the International Ski Federation has done so. They show great social responsibility, and I want to thank the forces in the Ski Federation that have worked for this. This problem, however, is not solved only by the decision taken by the Ski Federation, because there are more races in Norway than those under the responsibility of the International Ski Federation, including the United Kingdom. within ski shooting. We therefore believe that there is also a need for stronger national legislation. Everyone agrees that the best thing is to put in place international agreements and legislation, but there is no contradiction between working nationally and working internationally — rather, on the contrary, what we do nationally can create a framework for an international norm. Let me finally point out that the Council of State in the letter encourages people not to use fluorine in skimmering. Until a regulation is in place, of course, I fully agree that it should not be done by people, but then people have to know what to choose. There are some manufacturers who notice their skimming, but not all. That is why we need to put in place a proper labelling system, so that consumers know what they can do, and make good and informed choices. With that, I recommend the vote by the Committee, which the Labour Party supports, but which unfortunately does not seem to have a majority in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1126	Fortunately, greater attention has been paid to the environmental and health consequences of fluorotoxics, and it is. This is why, among other things: a ban on the use of fluoroskimming on screens for children under 16 years of age following the decision of the Ski Association in 2018. In addition, the International Ski Association has adopted a ban on fluorine scouring on all its rivers. This means that from the next season onward it will be prohibited to use it in Norway and internationally. In addition, those who sell products presenting a risk to the environment and health are obliged to provide sufficient and relevant information to enable consumers to make informed choices. The intention of this proposal is good, and it has already been better preserved than the proposals put forward by the proposers, because the government is already involved in international work on banning the use of harmful fluorine compounds, i.e. several countries are imposing a ban on this. So the question is, how many SV representatives are needed to promote a proposal that the government is already doing well? The answer in this case is obviously five. Then there is also a need for some representatives from the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party. I would also like to mention what was said in the Aukrust post where he reads out some comments and harpsesses with what he is used to hearing from the Right and Advance Party. Just so ideologically, I must say that it is strange that he is surprised that a liberal party like the Left is also concerned with the limits of politics. So this is something that unites the liberal and conservative tradition of ideas, of which Christian democracy is also a part. So that's it. But the second thing is that he reads those notes completely out of context, because what we're saying is that yes, that's ‘limits of policy, in particular where the challenges have been solved by the parties themselves, as in this case by sports organisations. The intention of the proposal has already been respected.» And then we go on and talk about how the government works with this internationally. So the intention of the proposal is good, the executive power of the government is even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1142	What should have been the cold fine time when we could have walked miles by mile on ski, has unfortunately been rain, rain and again rain. The positive thing in this is maybe that the sales of fluorinated paints and slides have been low. What do you do with good slip when it's not snow? But winter comes back, and so does the need to have good slides under the skis. But the good glide comes with a very serious side effect. In recent years, we have received many reports from the long-haul environment on significant health damage to skiers as a result of the use of fluorine in ski walls. Doctors are open that this can cause or have contributed to cancer. This year, the EU will introduce a ban on long chain fluorine compounds. Industry has been aware of this ban for more than five years. The problem is that parts of the industry adapt production with more short chain fluorine compounds. This is not good either for health or for the environment. Therefore, the ban on all fluorine walling is the only way to get rid of these problems. In addition, it is necessary to require ski-wall manufacturers to prove that the anointing they provide as an alternative is safe for human health and the environment. If they cannot demonstrate this, the lubrication may not be used either. In Norway, the use of fluorine walls on the skin for children under 16 years of age has been banned. The International Ski Federation will ban all its race from the next winter, and that's good, but the Ski Shooter Federation is still sitting on the fence. They will have the assurance that there are sufficient control methods in place to deal with those who may not care about the ban and nevertheless butter fluorine under the rails. So there's a danger that the fluorine will also be used in the next winter. This shows that the previous speaker, Stefan Heggelund, has not really got involved in the matter he is actually talking about. Norway should extend its ban on screens for those under the age of 16 to cover absolutely all the screens organised in Norway. There must be limits to politics, it is said. – Well, when there is a risk of serious harm to people and the environment, policy should intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1153	First of all, the former government council of the left in this area, Ola Elvestuen, has been offensive to get this undead, which we all accept it to be, to be alive. That's how we're going to do it, which is the matter we're discussing. I think that the case rapporteur, Åsmund Aukrust from the Workers' Party, is lubricating a little bit and might have some ‘ice in the ruby’ in terms of further progress. For the left, it is not relevant to confirm a law without being able to enforce it, and at present there is no method to verify whether there is fluorine in the paintwall. So we have a significant challenge in finding the means to enforce a law. That time is coming. So sport makes a lot of effort to deal with this on its own, but in a competitive environment it is difficult to regulate the use of, among other things. toxic chemicals. There is also no target for us to replace one toxic substance with another. This is more about than paint meshing; it is also about these chemicals being used in other products, including: In clothes, so here we have a big job to do with finding alternatives. The Swan label is a system that stimulates the use of other substances, and there is currently a swan-marked ski-murdering, which demonstrates an equally good sliding effect and which is produced with different contents. We also need to facilitate the release of that information to the population. For someone who's going to go for a walk in the field, it doesn't matter if a user uses fluorine or not. The use of the community is also a contribution to reducing the need for ski-walling, but it does not exclude the need for sliding. So here we work together – many actors towards the same goal – on an international code. In order to prevent production, which is largely carried out in other countries, international cooperation is particularly important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1164	The government has a high priority to phase out environmental expenditure in consumer products. International regulation is the most effective and the most important instrument in this way. Consumer products traded in Norway are largely produced entirely different from those in Norway. In particular, environmental pollutants are transported across national borders through sea currents and air currents, so Norwegian specific national bans are likely to have very little or no effect. In order to phase out environmental expenditure in the consumer product, we need to cooperate with other countries at international level. The main strategy of the government is, therefore, to continue to slow down efforts on the international arena. It's giving us results. Norway will have an impact on the proposals we are making at international level. Chemical legislation in the EU is the world's leading chemicals legislation. Norway participates actively and works both to ban drugs, groups of drugs, and to evaluate them. Norway is working for stricter regulation of environmental pollutants internationally, both in the EEA and globally, through international conventions. Perfluorinated substances are included in the Norwegian priority list of substances that environmental management is working to phase out. A targeted effort is already being made to reduce their use. Norway has been working with other European countries for more than 10 years to ban more perfluoroactive substances in Europe and globally. Several of those substances are already regulated or are about to become regulated. The international prohibition on perfluorinated substances will also apply to the use of the substances in the production and use of paints, which is the individual product on which it is focused in the representative proposal. There is a limited space for action to introduce specific national regulations on environmental substances or to set specific national requirements on products. Chemicals and products are regulated by EEA legislation. National regulations could be regarded as illegal barriers to trade, contrary to our international obligations, if they go above a certain threshold. In order to strengthen consumer information on products, it is most important to work for good international labelling schemes. In this way, I would recommend both the Eco-label Swan and the EU flower, which helps consumers to target environmentally friendly alternatives. Swan-marked scouring, which is already mentioned, is free of perfluoroactive substances. Consumers also have the right to information on substances harmful to health and the environment in their products under current legislation, and manufacturers are responsible for ensuring that the products they sell are safe for health and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1179	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1184	In the article to the Council of State, we hear the Council of State say that because of international cooperation, the EU/EEA etc. will have difficulties in imposing bans on certain things in Norway. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State really believe that the imposition of a ban on the use of fluorinated skis and gliders at all Norwegian skiing events would be contrary to international agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1189	First of all, what I understand is that the representative Haltbrecken is now asking us to do, is not to impose a ban on painting itself, but to impose a ban on use at the event. Then one goes into what's different in its domain. That the Storting is going to start regulating what is legal to use there of the already legal product, I'm probably very sceptical about it. When it comes to prohibiting it in general, which would be a more dangerous way to that extent, I have to say that I doubt that it will be legal under the EEA Agreement. So one might say that yes, but we could just fix these regulations ourselves. But it's like, as far as I'm concerned, 250,000 different chemicals are registered. Starting to build up a national regulatory regime for it, with all it requires of work, skills, etc., will be a better and more effective alternative to the environment than being part of the world's most stringent co-ordinated legislation, I'm probably also very sceptical.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1196	No one in this room has said that we should not participate in international cooperation against these pollutants – on the contrary. So here the council draws up some strawmen. So it seems as if the Council of State is surprised that this proposal is about the ban on the use of fluorine touring at all Norwegian sporting events. But that is one of the core elements of the proposal under discussion today. It is actually one of the proposals that are being promoted. And then the Council of State says that it might be too much to intervene in the domain of individual sports. In line with that, will the Council of State lift the ban on alcohol advertising at sporting events in Norway? It is clear that Norway could have introduced such a ban on the use of this pollutant if it wished.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1206	Without this being my constitutional area, I would say that the representative Haltbrecken actually only proves my point, because there is no national ban on alcohol at sporting events in Norway by the Stortinget. This is what sports organisations themselves regulate, and that is why there is now a debate in football, for example. Of course, there may be a point of view, but that's not why we're here today. I would like to stress that I think fluorinated paint molten is problematic, and we are some that it has negative consequences. There is a reason Norway is working in the EEA to phase out a range of different fluorinated substances. But it is probably not what the representative Mr Haltbrecken seems to think, that we can be involved in that kind of chemical cooperation, that kind of common market, and at the same time have national special regulations that go across it. Here one more choice is required. And I think that if you have to choose, it's far better to be part of the strictest regime for chemicals around the world, which is continuously taking up new information about the new product of all the tens of thousands of chemicals that are still on the market, than to set up national special regulatory bodies for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1213	There was no serving of alcohol at the sports event I was talking about; it was alcohol advertising I was talking about. Now leave it. The Council of State says that it is difficult for us to have national regulations all the time we are involved in international cooperation. Does that also apply to tobacco? We are involved in international cooperation against the adverse effects of tobacco, but we have also introduced national legislation to limit the use of tobacco.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1220	Again, there is no national ban on alcohol advertising at sporting events agreed by Stortinget. There is a general ban on alcohol advertising, which applies regardless of whether it is a sports event or not. So I believe the representative Haltbrecken must get his copy fixed, for this does not hang in touch. When it comes to what he says about tobacco, it's not within my constitutional responsibility either. I have to admit that I do not have steel control over what international conventions we are part of in the tobacco field, but what I know is that at least it has nothing to do with EU chemicals legislation. [[Laughter]] I am therefore a little skeptical that it is particularly relevant when we are discussing painting walls.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1227	It is most relevant in this context, since the Council of State says that as long as we are involved in international cooperation in an area, it is difficult to establish national rules. What we notice is that the Ski Association and those who have worked actively to phase out fluorescence lubrication in the long run have welcomed SV's proposal. Unfortunately, we see that the government and the Progress Party do not want to take seriously the threats this represents to health and nature. My question to the Council of State is now about the introduction of good control procedures for the use of fluorine lubrication at the International Ski Association’s events in Norway. They have notified such a prohibition. Will the Council support the development of good control mechanisms financially through, for example: NILU, Norwegian Institute for Air Research?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1234	There are a number of control mechanisms to ensure that chemicals legislation is maintained and that illegal pollutants are not used in different contexts. Maybe you can think of more and more controls. I should be allowed to come back to that, if necessary. But I would like to emphasise again that when the representative has indicated that this is not taken seriously as a problem of the plurality, I do not read the plurality of the Stortinget like this. For my own part, I can say that this is a problem I take seriously. This is why we are still raising this issue when discussing legislation at EEA level. Last week, just before Christmas, I met — as a State Secretary — where I raised this issue with my colleagues who are Environment Ministers in other EU countries, and the need to phase out different types of fluorine that are dangerous to the environment. One thing that has to be careful then is that not only regulates the single product, but it immediately pops up a new product that is almost equal and equally environmentally harmful. One has to work to regulate groups of products, and for this to be continuously updated legislation that applies to everyone, not only to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1241	Then I would like to ask the Council of State what he intends to do with the substitutes that we now see some skimmering producers plan to use as a substitute for the long chain fluorine compounds, which will be banned in the EU from the summer of. The EU will ban the use of so-called C8 compounds, but what we see is that instead more short chain fluorine compounds, C6, are used. What will the Council of State do to prevent skimming and slipping with these connections from being used at events in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1246	Norway has already put forward a proposal, which is now under discussion in the EU, to ban C6 and C4, so it will continue to work on it – fortunately. We have a very competent environmental management, which I believe – like me – is in agreement with the representative Haltbrecken on the need for regulation here. What we clearly disagree about is the need for joint regulation. I believe the need for joint regulation is entirely decisive, both because it is a product that is largely non-produced in Norway, and because these types of pollutants are moving with sea currents and winds and enter Norway regardless of whether it is a national special ban or not. That is why we need common rules, and we already have the proposals that the representative is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1251	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1272	In the 1980s, Norway lacked a good special waste system. This was the recording that the Stortinget adopted the main lines of the Norwegian system for special waste at the end of the 1980s. A particularly difficult case was the establishment of a necessary landfill to deal with hazardous inorganic waste. National authorities assessed several possible sites for such a facility, until then Minister for the Environment, Thorbjørn Berntsen, in 1992, passed through and established Norwegian Waste Management AS, NOAH, with the state and nine industrial holdings on the owner’s side. The company became operational by purchasing Langøya outside Holmestrand from Norcem/Aker. This was important for two reasons. Firstly, the establishment of the facility in Langøya was necessary in order for Norway to fulfil its international obligations under the Basel Convention. Secondly, the plant was essential for the Norwegian industry, which needed a solution to deal with inorganic hazardous waste. Since the entry into force of the landfill ban on biodegradable waste in 2009, the Lang Island facility has also been important for dealing with increasing quantities of fly ash from modern waste incineration plants. Today’s facilities in Lang Island have capacity up to 2024. Then the property will be full, and Lang Island will be rehabilitated and returned to the open air area, as the President said. The current situation is not quite different from the situation we had when the NOAH was established at the end of the 1980s. Our treatment capacity in terms of inorganic hazardous waste is now dependent on the introduction of treatment solutions. This is indisputably established both by the Environment Directorate and by industry itself. However, there is still considerable uncertainty about the treatment facility and how to land it for Norway — despite the fact that the issue has been discussed and investigated for a number of years. As early as 2015, the Directorate-General for the Environment concluded that new installations for the treatment of inorganic hazardous waste would be needed after the capacity of Lang Island had been exhausted. The Directorate drew attention to the fact that, in experience, it takes a very long time to plan, investigate and project a large hazardous waste treatment facility. In order to achieve a new landfill before the end of the NOAH Lang Island, the Directorate felt that planning and impact assessment had to be started immediately. The Directorate stressed that local resistance could lead to the need for the State to take responsibility for the investigation of alternative solutions and localisations, and that it could then be appropriate to assess the State regulatory plan for the location considered to be most appropriate if it is difficult to implement the establishment of such a facility locally. Furthermore, NGU investigated an assessment of geological conditions at potential sites for landfill of inorganic hazardous waste in 2016. The study was carried out on behalf of the Environment Directorate, on the basis of a list of 12 possible sites compiled by the Directorate for Mineral Management. That list was rapidly reduced to five possible sites. Following a joint inspection with the Environment Directorate, the list covered two sites, namely the valley of limestone mines in Porsbrunne and the municipality of Rekefjord Ostpukkverk in Sokndal. In addition, NGU considered at the time that two additional sites had potential in relation to the geological conditions, and Lervik was in the Municipality of Kvinesdal and Raudsand in the Municipality of Nesset. Today we're left with two projects, between Brevik and Red Sand. The Environment Directorate considered that the mountain halls in Brevik were well suited as sites for a landfill, based on the assessment of both geological, hydrological and geotechnical conditions. As far as Raudsand is concerned, the Directorate-General for the Environment considered that they had not received sufficient information to assess the suitability of the mountains in Raudsand for establishment, and it was also not clear whether the respondent would be able to have a technology suitable for the treatment of the type of waste in question. In addition to listening to his own trade directorate, then Minister for Climate and Environment, Ola Elvestuen set up an expert committee on hazardous waste on 15 April 2019. The committee presented its report on 4 November 2019 and the expert committee’s assessment was that it should be planned that the amount of hazardous waste generated and which needs landfill capacity at the end of the Lang Island operation is at the same level as today. The committee of experts considered that the State should not continue to work for a landfill solution in the valley of mines. It was primarily justified by Norcem’s decision to continue the extraction of lime spat and Norcem’s assessment that co-operation is not possible. Norcem has a concession to operate and extract lime in the mines until 2040. The sample also showed that co-operation between current activities and waste landfills has not been part of previous evaluations. In addition to the valley mines, mountain halls in Odda and Gudvangen were mentioned in the expert committee, but there are no plans for the establishment of new landfills in these halls. In the Nesset municipality, there have been objections to the municipal sub-plan that regulates the mines at the industrial site. The plan is therefore dealt with in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. So the expert committee's contribution has probably not solved the world's problems. Once again, the arrow and the bottle point towards the Council of State, and it is important to make a decision. After all these years, it's still unclear what's going to happen, and it's serious for several reasons. One is that the Ministry and the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, have established that the reduction of Norwegian treatment capacity will not be in line with our international commitments. The second is that this is a very important industrial policy issue. Adequate landfill capacity of inorganic hazardous waste has become scarce, but it is a crucial framework for Norwegian industry. Several hundred Norwegian companies depend on the existence of an environmentally safe and competitive solution for inorganic hazardous waste, and it is a demand from the Norwegian people that it is managed precisely that way, that it is safe, so you don't have to be afraid and wonder if it is possible to live where you live in the future. An example of a company that has clearly stated that they need these competitive landfill solutions is Kronos Titan. If there is no solution to deal with their thin acid, several hundred workers are put in an impossible situation. This will have consequences for other industrial enterprises in the Øra industrial community in Eastfold and indeed other sites in the country, because the industrial enterprises are linked by exploiting each other's raw materials and side streams. Kronos Titan is quite clear that a landfill in Red Sand is not relevant to them, so how will this affect the reality of that facility? I want the Council of State to respond to that. For industry too, this is very serious, and you can, as the situation is today, risk standing without a robust solution when the property on the island of Lang Island is full. You don't necessarily have a concrete technological response to new solutions in 2024 – and good solutions – in relation to the circular economy, so landfill is one thing you have to work with. Forward-looking politicians and civil servants, together with industry, have provided a good system for hazardous waste in Norway. To continue this, we now need a new facility to deal with inorganic hazardous waste. My appeal to the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment is therefore to cut through and land this matter now. I think there are many who have expectations of this – far beyond industry. People wonder how dangerous it really is, and they may feel that the government council is always in the department and is far too little out there and convey how dangerous this is to environmental areas near a landfill. The debate has been very polarized. Those who actually want to create new businesses and new jobs in this context, and who may be interested in getting a landfill, have a lot of local resistance and screaming after a government council actually comes and takes responsibility and shows way, because there is a need.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1302	Let me start by thanking the representative Norderhus for raising an important issue for discussion in Stortinget. It's a problem that many people are concerned about, both locally, where there's reason for it, and not least in business. It is true that today’s landfill for hazardous waste in Lang Island is considered to be full by 2024. There are over 200 Norwegian companies delivering hazardous waste to Lang Island today, and there is a need for a solution when today’s landfill is full. Hazardous waste contains hazardous substances that are hazardous to health and the environment and, in order to prevent their spread in nature, it is decisive that hazardous waste is treated defencefully. The business community itself has a responsibility to handle own waste. The attempt to establish a new landfill for hazardous waste in Brevik was halted in 2015, when the municipality of Porsgrund refused to establish a plan for action. There was then a situation in which Norway risked standing without hazardous waste treatment capacity, and it would hardly, as the representative pointed out, be in line with relevant EU legislation or in line with our international obligations, such as the Basel Convention, to have sufficient national capacity to deal with hazardous waste. Against this background, since 2015, there has been a process in the Ministry of Climate and Environment to assess the role to be played by the country in ensuring treatment capacity for hazardous waste. As part of that process, the Directorate-General for the Environment has carried out various evaluations and assessments. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has established a planning programme for a possible landfill in Brevik to provide important information on that site. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has also followed the estate plans on Raudsand, which the municipality has our planning authority. Contrary to the regulatory plan to be decided by the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation, I cannot comment on it. In spring 2019, an expert selection of hazardous waste was set up to assess both how the amounts of hazardous waste could be reduced and how future treatment capacity for hazardous waste could be ensured. The recommendation from that selection is relatively fresh and was made in November 2019. The selection of their assessments was that it is possible to reduce the amounts of hazardous waste in the long term resulting in a set of tools. At the same time, they pointed out that it would take some time to reduce the amounts of hazardous waste and therefore suggested that the amounts of hazardous waste that would need landfill capacity when the Lang Island landfill was closed are planned to be as today. The expert selection recommended that the government did not further work for a landfill solution in Brevik. At the same time, they mentioned other possible sites for a new landfill, then on Raudsand in Mora and Romesdal and in Odda or Gudvangen in the West. The selection also highlighted the need for closer consideration of possible transitional solutions to deal with hazardous waste if a new landfill is not in place when today’s landfill is full. That report was sent on a hearing in December with a short hearing period, 15 January this year. So it's gone. It has come in close to 100 listening recordings. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is now working on the follow-up and on the role of the State in ensuring a new solution. As part of this, an assignment has been given to the Environment Directorate to make an assessment of the selection's report and assessment of recommendations as they are. It includes the assessment of sites, the assessment of transitional solutions and the assessment of the means of reducing hazardous waste. That work is due on 1 April. Former Minister for Climate and Environment Ola Elvestuen and former Minister for Industry Torbjørn Røe Isaksen have also had dialogue with key industrial actors on possible solutions. That dialogue I'm going to follow up on. Among other things, I have Invited to a meeting with policymakers and municipalities for the locations mentioned by the selection, and I am already in the process of implementing them, in order to get more detailed information about what the plans at the different locations actually mean, what is realism in them, what is the progress plan, and what is the status. In conclusion, I would say that I have a deep understanding that many people in the business community want clarification, and I have a deep understanding that many people who live near the various locations that are pointed to, among other things. by the expert selection, would like a clarification. I understand that the representative of Norderhus wants a clarification, and that she wants me to get through, as she said. But it is clear to me that the article does not outline the solution that is preferred, and it is perhaps a little illustrative that this is a lot of consideration to take, and that these are demanding assessments. What I want to say is that the government has not concluded with a further process of how to secure future processing capacity. What we're doing right now is what I'm talking about instead, with the temptations I'm talking about. I can unfortunately not say today whether when it will take a decision, but what I can say, is that this matter has a high priority with me, and that is because she needs a clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1327	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I feel that the answer is fairly honest. I understand that the challenge is demanding, but it doesn't make it any less important to get this case landed. I understand that deadlines should be met, but once the consultation period has expired, it is important to pressurise. After all, the government has started a new solution process and has pushed a number of samples and investigations ahead of itself. You have to do that, it's not wrong to have done that, but it's incredibly important the sooner, the better to find a solution, because the discussion out there is alarming. The longer you wait, the harder I think it'll be to find a solution that can be accepted either way. After all, from More and Romesdal's side, State Councillor Listhaug was out this summer and said that it would not be on the Nesset, but she did not run to Brevik and said it was there. Because no one wants to say that, but everyone wants to take over the turmoil that is, and say, no, we're going to make sure it doesn't stay here. However, Norway has a responsibility: to find a solution. Then I want to say a little bit about the circular economy. I believe that it is important to make demands for better solutions to this. In the case of waste, there are a lot of imports and exports, and things interact, but at the same time the country itself has a great responsibility. A concrete question that I want to drill a little bit more in: How does the Council of State view the project on Raudsand and the possibilities there when Kronos Titan says they are not interested in sending any waste there? What will it entail in relation to the technological solutions to be used there and the management of the other waste to be used there, if any? Does that mean that it is not relevant – that there is no basis for having a landfill there? Or does that mean that you can easily find other solutions, and that thin acid is not important there? Another thing is that it's about how to process the different types of waste, and thin acid and sulphur ash have somehow come together in plaster and solutions in the NOAH system. But how are you going to make demands to make that kind of processing in the future, so that you can be sure that the waste is still safe if it comes into contact with water? Then I would like to convey that there is a great deal of uncertainty about how it is the state responsibility for previous rounds in Red Sand to be handled. I want the Council of State to make a comment just on how to deal with the waste that lies there today, because it starts off a little bit less with the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1342	I can understand that a set of selections is sometimes perceived as pushing the problem by the government, and historically it is not obvious that it has happened. But in this case I'll say, on the contrary. The expert selection that was put down to look at the treatment capacity of hazardous waste has given us very much useful information about both the possibilities to reduce hazardous waste – which I think everyone agrees – many good assessments there, and also information about the sites in question. So yes, it took some time, but it was important that the work was done, and that gives us a better basis for decision. Then the representative of Norderhus is quite right in saying that there is no shortage of politicians running around pointing out where this should not be – it is rare in such cases. Nevertheless, it is quite right, as it is emphasised, that at the end of the seventh, a decision must be taken, and that my judgements lie with me, and my responsibility is the role that the state may play in such a decision. We're going to take that very seriously. It's a little difficult for me to go deep into the assessments as single companies like Kronos Titan. But at least what's interesting about what's going on here is that it illustrates an important point. It is that when hazardous waste is involved, not only landfill capacity is important — that is, of course, one side of it — but treatment capacity is also very important. It has to be connected in some way, but one can of course think of different models for it. something the expert selection is looking at. So it is – and I must stress this – that waste producers are responsible for own waste, whether it is business or municipal combustion plants. But when that is said, I agree that this issue is important for the industry in Norway itself, that it is important that one has outlets, and that there is also a certain international obligation towards the state to facilitate the existence of capacity. Hazardous waste contains hazardous substances for human health and contains dangerous substances for the environment. One can probably discuss how the debate is about this locally, and what people think about how dangerous it is. But at least that's a reason why you call it hazardous waste, and it has to be handled in a proper way – at least we can be a few about that. I see without a doubt the need for a solution to be put in place, and the state's role in ensuring this is central to our current assessments. So it's important that the selection points out that new technologies could increase recycling. That's good. I am, therefore, busy considering in parallel the role of authorities to stimulate recovery, for example. through support for innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1357	Let me first give tribute to the interpellant to address an important issue with many potential conflict areas in it. It should be said that well within this debate I am about as much like when the debate started. It probably says a little bit about the complexity that these things have, and I just want to say that we also respect it. There are demanding balances between important industrial interests, favourable framework conditions for large parts of our business and considerable fear and resistance to the establishment in our own neighbourhood of all the important sites that are pointed out. One of the locations on which some time has been spent today is the Red Sand Location in More and Romesdal, which has initially been given local political support, and on which – quite rightly – there is a formal matter in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. What still makes me take the floor is not that I expect the Minister for Climate and Environment to clarify that question now. What is an independent point is that, following the completely necessary changes in the municipal structure that have come over the last few years, a significant local policy initiative is now taking place in the new municipality of Molde, following a reassessment of the planned budgets that have been made and which has provided the basis for the current case in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. A central question is therefore whether the government is prepared to wait for such treatment in the new municipality of Moldova before taking a position on further progress. The background of this resistance is about several things. It is both about the risk of hazardous waste landfilling and about cargo and distance from the sites to the market. In many cases, a careful analysis of all of this is necessary. But I think that when there are different plan status and the government at this time has not yet managed to conclude based on the information you have, one should have respect for the political processes that are going to take place in the new Moldovan municipality, and with it waiting for any decisions until a new local political treatment is made. The question is whether the Council of State is willing to clarify that question here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1368	I would also like to thank the representative Norderhus for addressing this issue in an inter-pelling debate. There's a clarification that needs to be made, which is demanding, but it's urgent. I would like to take the opportunity to ask the State Council of Rotevatn some questions about purely practical aspects of the project presented by the Bergmäisteren Raudsand AS and Veideck ASA in setting up a landfill for hazardous waste on Raudsand. On 28 October, Managing Director Jan Klauset of Kronos Titan sent a letter of political leadership in the municipality of Molde, to the municipality of More and Romesdal and affected neighbouring municipalities, where he clearly and unequivocally states that it is not appropriate for Kronos Titan to send 200,000 m 3 with dilute sulphuric acid all the way up the coast to More and Romesdal for disposal. He describes this as impossible because the distance is 2,000 km of travel-return. Special ships are required, the explosion of mountains not yet in place is required, and the costs are such that Kronos Titan would not be able to pay the cost of landfilling. To understand the seriousness of this recording for the Red Sand project, one must also understand which processes a user uses when landfilling this waste. At the NOAH plant on Lang Island today, an approx. 400000 tonnes of hazardous waste per year. Drought half of it is toxic fly ash containing heavy metals, the other half is dilute sulphuric acid from Kronos Titan. When one mixes these two components, it gets a very stable plaster mass that also binds heavy metals effectively. If one component, i.e. the sulphuric acid, is not delivered to Red sand from Kronos Titan, it is also not possible to carry out the process that is currently taking place on the Lang Island to bind heavy metals in the ash of this plaster mass. Then Klauset also writes in the letter that on 15 January there was a meeting between the waste industry and the Minister for Industry and the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment. He then writes: We have been informed that the Bergmeister Raudsand in this meeting did not bear out that they would store Kronos Titan’s thin acid in exploding mountain halls for up to one year if they did not finish their processing plant in 2024. In that case, this will be a stock of up to 250000 m 3 of dilute sulphuric acid, which is classified as hazardous waste. This is something that has not been up in the debate in More and Romesdal, and which came as a whole new information for me, and which I really find quite shocking, that one actually here plans to store sulphuric acid in its original form for up to one year. I would like the Council of State to comment on what appears in the Klauset letter. The second thing I want to mention is that in the project presented by the Bergmäisteren and Veigeck, it is said that one using the HaloSep method, which Stena Recycling has researched in Denmark, will extract heavy metals and salt from the toxic fly ash before it is deposited in mountain halls, which have not yet exploded, on Raudsand. What is not apparent is that the HaloSep technology for Stena Recycling is not yet commercially available. The first test facility at the waste incineration plant in Glostrup in Denmark started now at the turn of the year and will have a two-year test period after that to see if the cleaning process is working properly at all. So we don't know that until the end of 2021, probably after the decision to locate a new landfill is taken. The HaloSep method has been developed to separate heavy metal and salt from the fly ash resulting from the chimneys of waste incineration plants. The whole purpose is that the airbag should therefore be safe before being sent to landfill. The ash can then, if the HaloSep method proves to work as expected, be deposited as normal waste in an ordinary landfill near the waste incineration plant. Thus, transporting toxic fly ash over long distances to a large central landfill for hazardous waste is not allowed. The whole purpose of the HaloSep method is therefore to clean the ashes at each waste incineration plant in order to avoid having to establish large landfills for hazardous waste with enormous transport costs. The concept of Bergmäderen AS and Weibäcken completely reverses this on their heads. They will carry toxic unclean fly ash along half the Norwegian coast at great cost and clean the ashes after it has come to the landfill on Raudsand. I would like the Council of State also to comment on the side of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1408	The location of hazardous waste landfill will always be a demanding matter. It is easy to mobilise local resistance, whether the basis is professional and factual or not. We have seen that in this case. The option that the Directorate-General for the Environment has considered to be well suited as a new landfill for hazardous waste appears to be lost due to local unrest and resistance. Despite what the Council of State says about him being aware of the urgency, I am concerned that the government does not take into account how short it is for a concrete and realistic alternative to Lang Island to be decided. Four years is a long time in policy, but not in business that will depend on a solution — and not just a solution in a place, but one where the technical solutions are tested and logistics is in place. Kronos Titan, which in this chain is a key company with its thin acid, points in its consultation response to the expert committee that an alternative solution must be tested and operational during 2023. The company reminds the government that there are time-consuming technical and market assessments, process design, applications, consultation rounds and approval of the authorities to which they are going and such things take – as we know – time. Lack of clarification also creates uncertainty for suppliers, and – as in Kronos Titan’s case – uncertainty for their customers as to whether they can supply customers with e.g.: iron sulphate for sewage treatment after 2024. Of course, I am particularly concerned about the future of Kronos Titan, with 170 jobs in Fredrikstad and 230 jobs in the Titania mine. Owners are clear that without a sustainable solution for thin acid, further operations in Fredrikstad are not possible. This is no empty threat. The company's company in Leverkusen, Germany, which has used a different and more expensive method for the treatment of thin acid, has been closed this year because of a lack of economy However, if the concern for these 400 jobs is not sufficient for the government to move ahead with a solution: this affects far more enterprises and waste facilities, which have been in the hands of several. There are 17 energy recovery facilities delivering fly ash to Lang Island that are harmless to thin acid from Kronos Titan. Waste Norway calls for warnings. Economic Policy Director Cecilie Lind says to Fredriksstad Blad on 20 January this year that ‘without sufficient storage capacity for fly ash, energy recovery facilities must stop the receipt of waste within one to two weeks’. Waste Norway writes in its consultation response to the expert committee that it will ‘affect waste collection from almost all households and businesses throughout the country in a very short time’ if not a solution. Lack of landfill capacity will, therefore, not only affect hazardous waste — seriously enough in itself — but also the receipt of ordinary waste that cannot be recovered. Let me add that one of the alternatives it is working on – as the previous speaker also mentioned – Red sand in the former Nesset municipality will hardly be a realistic alternative. The Environment Directorate said in November 2018 that the Raudsand option is not sufficiently documented and that the technology envisaged is immature. Kronos Titan has made it very clear to the municipality of Molde, which is about to deal with the regulation plan, that for them this is an obsolete option and therefore they cannot base their solution on thin acid from the farm. Of course, the Council of State is aware that Norway is obliged by international agreements to have treatment and landfill capacity to ensure the safe management of hazardous waste. I believe that the government must recognise that this is a matter that needs to be resolved, that needs to be resolved quickly, and that will also require unpopular measures, if necessary a state regulatory plan. That is why I think the most worrying thing we hear in this debate is what the Council of State says that the government has not yet taken a decision on whether to take a role or leave it to the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1431	I would like to thank the Council of State for its sincere response. I hope the Council of State helps to get good answers coming, and that they will come as soon as possible to clarify the situation. Industry needs predictability. Employees need security. The people affected need to be reassured and feel both that the waste is properly handled, that their situation is not threatened in any way, and that coexistence with different industries and interactions in the environment should be ensured. The Council of State has not really answered the questions about what he is doing in this situation, other than consultation deadlines and that it is being heard, but what the further process is now concrete for the Council of State that is in the Chamber today, I would like to have an answer to. I want to know what kind of sketch he has to work on that process in the future, whether he's interested in just looking at the answer landfill – the expert committee also said that in a new landfill you have to have the kind of size you have today – and whether he'll start to follow what the Workers' Party proposed when dealing with the landfill notification of waste and circular economy, where we also asked for 25 pst. circular economy for hazardous waste — making it clearer. It takes time to find solutions, but through an interaction with both requirements and solutions, it is possible to do so. A little back to Brevik and Dalen mines: The expert committee pointed out that cooperation between Norcem’s activities and the landfill of inorganic hazardous waste has not been part of previous evaluations. Norcem's recognised professional environment in mining, which has in-depth knowledge of the mines in the valley, has rejected the possibility of co-operation, but what is the possibility of a third party assessment? Is an investigation instruction related to international solutions? I want the Council of State to say a little bit about it. I just want to say, as I said about imports and exports, that the Swedes are building new factories. Ragn-Sells is now ready not to send fly ash and reduce it considerably in 2021, and thinks to have built two factories and in a way to stop exporting to Norway in 2024. Then again, is there an interaction here in the Nordic market for which the Council of State can give an assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1446	Thanks for a good word change and for many good posts. There are many questions for me here, which are also about very detailed professional assessments that I might have to ask for respect that I cannot answer on a standing basis. But I will try to answer what I can answer. Many of the questions have been related to the Red Sand option. First, the representative asked Dale questions about this with any new treatment in a new municipality. I am well aware again that the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation has complaints with them, and what assessments they make, I do not know. On a general basis, it is such that decisions taken in complaints are adhered to and not to any future decisions. But what assessments are being made in this matter is probably the Council of Astrup that has to answer and not me, because I just don't know that. But by that option, it's right, as it was pointed out, that there's a lot of unresolved questions. It is clear that you have to dig out halls – what is the cost picture of that? No permissions requested, as far as I know. All of this is why I want to meet the different actors at different locations in order to clarify a number of such questions. We are working as hard as we can to clarify, so that decisions can be made on a good basis in the future. It's a demanding thing. There is time pressure in the matter, there is no doubt about it, and it takes time to establish new solutions. Therefore, the matter is of high priority. New hazardous waste landfill capacity is important for maintaining international commitments, and it is important for industry. When the representative Svein Roald Hansen is concerned that – I don't remember the wording – we in one way don't realize that this is time-critical, I think I can reassure him that we realize that one has to make decisions here. That's also why we work as fast as we actually do, with short hearing periods, etc. At the same time, I am busy that the report to the selection has to be evaluated in a good and thorough way. There are different tracks in it that we have to follow up. There are assessments of how we can secure new landfill capacity, it concerns assessments of the recovery of hazardous waste and the reduction of amounts, and it concerns the possibility and realism of possible intermediate solutions if one comes into such a situation. All of that has to be considered carefully, but we're working on a high priority. The selection report has, as I have said, been listening. The Directorate-General for the Environment compiles the hearing notes and has been given a separate deadline for us, which is 1 April. I can't say so much more about the further process now or the role of the state, but when it comes to the concern that the state should have a role at all, it's clear that it has to. We're talking about emission routes, etc., a little bit independent of the location. But if the question is whether it is a self-evident goal that a person enters a state plan and overrides a municipality, it is not, of course, an independent goal. But that the state will have a role here in some way is in fact in nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1460	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1478	Norway contributes large amounts of development funding and with a great deal of assistance to countries around the world. We would like to have political disagreements, and we sometimes do, on what the level of this assistance should be, but I think we all agree that the assistance provided should go to the best of both the people and the places to which it is provided, and that Norwegian assistance should maintain a high standard. Norwegian aid partners shall maintain a high standard of ethics, achievement and transparency and no assistance shall be provided to organisations or partners associated with organisations or persons supporting violent extremism or any other type of violence. Norway has strict guidelines for who can receive Norwegian aid because we need to maintain a high standard. As a result, I have understood that there are several organisations working in the Palestinian territories that will not be able to qualify for Norwegian aid, among others. because they oppose a negotiated two-state solution, support the boycott campaign or are associated with terrorist organisations. The reason I have this interpellation is that we are familiar with several examples of organisations that are indirectly receiving Norwegian aid through partnerships with other NGOs, and that we have reason to believe would not be eligible directly for aid support. As noted by the President-in-Office of the Council, the UAWC, the Union of Agricultural Work Committees, is such an example on the West Bank. I would like to point out that the UAWC of the United StatesID is categorised as the agricultural wing of the PFLP – Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – an organisation designed as a terrorist organisation of the EU, Canada, the United States and Israel. I would also like to point out that in 2018 Visa, Mastercard and American Express closed the possibility of personally donating to UAWC through their channels, precisely because of the connection to PFLP. UAWC and similar organisations that we think might be problematic are part of a project that has received over 50 million. kr in help from Norwegian Public Aid over the last five years. Another organization I can mention condemned the decision of the Norwegian authorities to cease funding for a youth centre named after the terrorist Dalal Mughrabi, a woman who participated in a massacre in Israel in 1978, resulting in the death of 38 civilians, including 13 children. Several such organisations have been understood to be part of projects indirectly receiving aid by receiving support from NGOs, which in turn receive Norwegian aid for their projects. My question to the Council of State is therefore how the Norwegian authorities ensure that organisations receiving Norwegian aid do not directly or indirectly channel Norwegian money support to organisations that oppose Norwegian foreign policy and that could themselves be disqualified from receiving Norwegian money support directly. I also ask how the Council of State avoids Norwegian aid going to organisations that, in the worst cases, may be linked to terrorist organisations. This is important for the legitimacy of Norwegian aid, but also for our own conscience and to prevent Norwegian development funds and Norwegian taxpayers from going to organisations or people who support violence and extremism.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1491	First of all, I would like to thank the inter-pellant, Gulati, for addressing a topic that provides an opportunity to discuss Norwegian development policy and the crucial role played by civil society in combating poverty. We know from our own history how industrious fires and non-governmental organisations facilitate creative societies – for a political commitment and for an economic activity that strengthens one another. A stable democracy is built from below. The same is true on the economic side. Therefore, there has been a broad consensus in this room that support for civil society must be a central element of development policy. Let it be clear: Norwegian authorities have very clear and detailed guidelines on the support provided to civil society organisations. It also applies to organisations with respect in Israel or Palestine. Norway does not support organisations that encourage violence or promote hateful expressions, anti-semitism or other racism. We take any accusation of misuse of Norwegian funds very seriously, and we conduct our own investigations where there may be credible claims or other information that provides a basis for follow-up. At the same time, we are concerned about the increased pressure experienced by civil society in many countries and the attempts to limit the scope of organisations. Everything we do in development policy is directed towards the great goal of eradicating all extreme poverty by 2030. In addition, we're going to achieve all of the other sustainability targets. All stones must be turned if we are to succeed in that work. The tools we have have have to be sharpened, and we have to select the tools that enable the receiver to generate its own growth as far as possible. Therefore, health, education and renewable energy are some of the key tools we use. The same applies to support for good governance, democracy, civil society and human rights — and not least the fight against corruption. It's important if we're going to reach the most vulnerable. The promise that no one should be left out obliges us all to work for a development that just includes everyone, where Norwegian support reaches people who are in vulnerable situations and who have limited opportunities. The good thing is that the number of extremely poor has fallen from two billion to 800 million. But if we are to achieve that goal – the last difficult rounds to achieve that goal – it is precisely the disadvantaged that we need to help improve our lives. We don't reach them without the help of civil society. Voluntary organisations are central – both as an objective and as an instrument. That's why it turned out to be 7.5 billion. kr of the development budget channelled through just civil society in 2019. Much of this went to work on good governance, education and health. Civil society organisations make a formidable effort, whether in the case of humanitarian operations or in the case of long-term assistance. Long-term efforts are primarily managed through grant schemes in Norad. Through competitive calls, the funds go to Norwegian, international and local organisations. Applications shall be assessed in accordance with their own legislation and a separate quality system for the application procedure and for the award of applications. That system shall assess, inter alia: relevance to the sustainability objectives, capacity for target and performance management, choice of partners, risk analyses, past achievements, local ownership, financial management and cost-effectiveness. Recordings from Norwegian embassies, departmental departments and external reviews are also included in those assessments. An important objective of supporting Norwegian organisations is to strengthen their partners in developing countries through knowledge transfer. They choose their own partners and have an independent responsibility to follow up their cooperation. It is a cooperation that will be in line with the U.D. and Norad guidelines on support. The choice of partners must be well-founded and based on thorough background checks and controls. The UD and Norad also carry out external organisational reviews and regularly visit selected partners. Palestine is one of the countries selected by the Stortinget as a partner country in development policy. In Palestine too, a strong civil society is important for democratic and economic development and for the establishment of an independent and democratic state. The fact that Palestine is a vulnerable society that remains in conflict — and with institutional challenges in its own ranks — only makes civil society even more important. Norway will therefore continue to cooperate with Norwegian, Israeli and Palestinian organisations — on the basis of a common overall objective of a negotiated two-state solution. We will continue to support organisations that are working to safeguard fundamental human rights. The Association of Palestinian Farmers and Fishermen, Union of Agricultural Work Committees, UAWC, is one of the oldest Palestinian civil society organisations. Maybe we can compare it to the Farm and Small User Team here, just to put it into a context, to the background of the work. UAWC has been registered with the Palestinian authorities in line with the applicable law. They organise and support Palestinian farmers and fishermen, not least through contributions to modernisation, professionalisation and climate adaptation. It is a party-political independent stakeholder organisation that is also working to increase the participation of women in political processes. There are activities that go all the way to the heart of several of the main priorities of Norwegian development policy. UAWC is one of several local Palestinian partners of Norwegian People's Aid receiving support from Norad. Support to the organisation has been around 2 million in recent years. kr annually, making UAWC one of the largest and most important partners of Norwegian Public Aid in Palestine. In addition, they received EUR 2.7 million last year. in humanitarian funds for food security work. Norad carried out a simplified organisational review of the UAWC as late as April 2019. The visit report refers to a well-developed organisational structure and sound financial control. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is familiar with the charges against one of the employees of the UAWC, Samer Arbeed. Like more than 50 other people, he was arrested by the Israeli authorities in September 2019 for alleged involvement in terrorist acts that had taken place one month earlier. I condemn the attack on the strongest. There are currently no indications that his possible participation has anything to do with his employment in the UAWC. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also well aware of NGO Monitor’s long-standing claims against a number of civil society organisations on terrorist links, including UAWC. There is no credible information that the UAWC supports or is involved in acts of terrorism, but they have expressed the opposite in the documentation we have received. Unsolved claims about such connections have been rejected by credible actors, including: in investigations carried out by Australian authorities in several rounds where NGO Monitor is criticised for its methods. Support for civil society is essential in order to bring about democratic and economic development. There will often be dilemmas related to assistance through civil society. In the field of human rights, support can in several cases go to organisations that do not share the views of local authorities, just as we cannot demand that they share Norwegian views in one and the same way. It could lead to tensions. In several countries, civil society experiences reduced space for action and the suppression of freedom of expression and assembly. Our partners note this pressure, and several mention threats and harassment as risk factors in work. The Government takes any accusation of misuse of Norwegian funds seriously and conducts investigations where there is credible evidence or other relevant information. All alerts are taken in the greatest seriousness. Norwegian authorities shall not finance violent insurrection, terror or other crime. As an example from the inter-pellant in 2017, it appeared that a Norwegian-supported centre for women on the West Bank was named after a convicted woman, we demanded that the aid be repaid. However, should it prove that an employee of a long-standing and recognised cooperation organisation is being convicted, there will not in itself be any reason to remove the support. We consider the support of civil society to be absolutely necessary in order to achieve the sustainability objectives. If this work is to bear fruit, it must be both long-term and based on thorough, objective control.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1529	I would like to thank the Minister for the answer and also for taking the issue seriously. As I began to say, although we may disagree with the correct level of Norwegian aid, we all share the objective that the assistance provided should contribute as effectively as possible both to the eradication of poverty, to development and to the strengthening of civil society. I have raised several concerns in the political environment that Norwegian aid can go to unfortunate types of activities. Among other things, the question of the prison wage payments of Palestinian self-government through the so-called Martyr Fund has been debated several times, and the four parties in government last year also expressed in this Chamber that they would actively oppose financial contributions to terrorism, including prison wages. This discussion is therefore not new, and I believe that Norway, as the leader of the donor country group, has a special responsibility to ensure that the assistance provided complies with the standards it is to maintain. I am pleased with what the council says about UAWC, and the investigations that the ministry has done, but I would also like to remind you of what I have said earlier, namely that other organisations and respected companies, like several of the largest payment companies in the world, have cut off people's ability to contribute to UAWC through their channels precisely because of worrying connections they believe UAWC has. In conclusion, I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether he is sure that the development aid provided by the Norwegian authorities to various organisations cannot indirectly go to organisations that have commitments that we cannot place behind, and what may be done – if any, it is assessed by the Norwegian aid partners to ensure that Norwegian aid does not indirectly go to organisations such as organisations. supporting violent extremism.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1540	I have explained why it is important to cooperate with civil society, and why it is important to do so in Palestine. I am also pleased – as the interpellant says – to debate a topic as important as what is addressed here. We have had it for a long time with civil society as a very central building block in development policy, just as we have had a long-standing commitment to Palestine in both the peace process and support for economic and institutional development. Because if we are to achieve results, we need to work thoroughly and long-term and make long-term partnerships. The civil society organisations are, as said, the most qualified to do that job, and do a very good job there. So it was with the prisoner pay scheme mentioned in the last article of the interpellant. I just want to show that it is a topic that has been addressed very clearly from this pulpit, and Foreign Minister Eriksen Soreide also addressed it in his last meeting with the Prime Minister, on February 20. We will continue to be part of international work and be clear on these issues. So until the Minister of Development is safe on our agreements and the management of the development funds. There are good frameworks and good practices for the grant schemes being dealt with, and I am very pleased with that discussion. So over the last few years it's become more aware of it, and I think it's important that we be even more clear about obtaining evidence of the good results that the development funds actually provide, not least in many of the most vulnerable and demanding areas in which we work, and in the conflict zones in which we operate. Then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has good authority to respond if there are significant deviations from the agreements that we sign. We're dealing with that, and there are several examples of us going in and terminating all or part of an agreement just where there are deviations from what's agreed. I feel safe about the administration we have. We have an incredible number of people who are in the field every single day to join in and achieve the goals that we have, and we have good administrators here, both in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in Norad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1553	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the answers he has given. I am pleased with the clear defence of aid, and I am also pleased that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is clear that Norway does not support organisations that encourage violence or promote hateful expressions, racism or anti-semitism. It was just supposed to be missing. But that's not why we're here today. We are here today because the representative Gulati has gone to a very dark hook on the Internet where he has found these very serious accusations that a Norwegian organisation is alleged to have links with terrorists. But he has not checked if what's there is to be trusted. He just pressed Ctrl C and Ctrl V and then put this into the Storting's Interpellations template and sent it over to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The problem is that this is not true. Is that really how the representative Gulati will use the opportunity to have important and often difficult issues debated in the Stortinget? Should the Council of State really have to come here and use its time to answer allegations that are demonstrably and obviously wrong? Does not the representative Gulati himself have a responsibility to check the truth in this? The accusations made come from a source that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself has said has a clear political impact. That's to say it carefully. It is known and well documented that the claims made by NGO Monitor over several years are mainly groundless and direct errors. They are discredited by the Australian, Swedish and Italian authorities and by the EU. I am also very pleased that the Council of State is clearly taking a distance from the NGO Monitor in its response. This is serious. It is serious at a time of increased polarisation, where false news and false accusations have to be involved in defining important debates, while at the same time facing enormous challenges that Norway must contribute to solving, including with aid. We don't have time to discuss these groundless claims. Terrorist financing claims must be taken seriously. At the same time, we know that it is a strategy to make such accusations to hit those with whom you disagree. They are used by authoritarian regimes that introduce laws affecting legitimate opposition and civil society, and they are used by actors such as NGO Monitor. This is a scary development that we all deserve to stop. It limits freedom of expression, limits public debate, and threatens democracy. We should have spent time debating that in Stortinget. There is no point in delegating and hindering the work of fully legal organisations for fundamental human rights, especially in the case of an organisation which is a constructive critic of both Israeli and Palestinian authorities. These questions are difficult enough, we don't have to mess them up with fake claims that can easily be cancelled with a simple Google search, which is available on most of the representatives' PCs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1570	I would like to thank the Minister for what I think was a very good answer to the question. On the other hand, I do not think the question that Himanshu Gulati raised was very good. I think the Minister answers very wisely as to why Stortinget should not discuss an ongoing criminal case in a country far away from us, and why it should not affect Norwegian aid either. Because that is not what this debate is about. It is about something we have so far been proud of in Norwegian policy, namely to throw up the terrorist stamp on civil society organisations that support the Palestinians' cause. Because we're all against terror. We believe that there are cruel acts that can never be defended. That is exactly why we fully agree that it is going to be so wrong to accuse important civil society organisations of doing just that. As a witness of truth, the Gulati organization used NGO Monitor, which I understand he has also visited Israel's friends at Stortinget. NGO Monitor is not a neutral organisation. We have heard that from the Secretary of State of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We heard it in the reply from the Development Minister now. Their accusations have been dismissed repeatedly by both international and Norwegian actors. This is a very right-wing organisation that deliberately uses terrorist stamping of civil society organisations as a strategy both on the Palestinian side, on the Israeli side and in international donors. There are many organisations that have been met by the accusations of NGO Monitor – solid, serious organisations we know very well: Church Emergency Aid, KFUK/KFUM Global, Refugee Aid and Norwegian Public Aid. We believe that political Norway must call for the important work done by these organisations. Unfortunately, too much of the time these organisations should have to help the Palestinians in their daily work, rather than being used to answer groundless claims about terror. Norwegian Public Aid is the organisation that is being met with the strongest charges. It is an organisation that has been conducting important solidarity and humanitarian work in Palestine for decades. The partner mentioned today is the Palestinian Farmers' and Small Farmers' Organisation, which deals with both agricultural and agricultural issues, agricultural advice and legal advice for Palestinian farmers who are run from land and home because of the Israeli occupation. That's the keyword for this conflict: occupation. There is no balance between the parties. It's an occupant and a people being occupied. Unfortunately, the situation today is more locked up and darker than in a very long time. We know what kind of policy the American President stands for, and with the night elections in Israel, it seems that they will still have the most right-wing government they've had in many, many years. It is precisely in this picture that Norway as a country should be the predictable and good friend that we have been through for decades and support the Palestinian people. We're going to be a friend who makes demands and sets up. We're going to do that through political work, and we're going to do it by supporting Palestinian civil society. It is good for the Palestinians, but it is also good for the Israelis. Because we see that, unfortunately, after many years of occupation, there is more desperation on the Palestinian side, where more people can be mobilized into more extreme groups. It is precisely in that image that we need to support democracy, support civil society working under a democratic platform. I think the Minister for Development gave a good account of the importance of civil society in bringing about political change. We are well aware of this from the history of development policy. We saw that when Norway supported the ANC, the South African trade union movement and church organizations in South Africa. There, too, were the charges of terror solved by some representatives on the right. But the story showed that it was right to do it. We have seen the same thing in support of civil society organisations in South America, and we see it in the Middle East. I have full confidence that the government and the Minister for Development are following up on what is going to be strict legislation, in a good way. And clearly, as he says, this is not foreign to dilemmas, dilemmas that we should discuss here in the Storting. But we shouldn't do that with the starting point that the Advance Party and Gulati have for their question, and I want to distance myself from the attacks that civil society met in the post from the Himanshu Gulati.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1591	I would like to start by thanking the Minister of Development for answering my concerns in previous posts, and that he takes the question that Norwegian assistance goes to things that are not going to happen, seriously. It's reassuring. But I have to say I was surprised by the attacks that now came from both representatives who made contributions, that they almost think it is wasted time that the magnificence representatives in this room are asking questions about legitimate concerns about what Norwegian assistance is going to do. None of the submissions gave any time to address the very concern that Norwegian assistance could also go to organisations that may have bad connections. I hope that's not the case, and I'm glad if that's the case, but these are legitimate concerns. However, both representatives who spoke before me were only concerned about criticising the fact that such concerns and questions are addressed in the Stortinget. I believe it is important that representatives of big business and others, when they are familiar with worrying matters, take it up and also ask the responsible state councils questions. The representative Haltbrecken invited me to do some Google search. I want to send the same call back, because this is about legitimate concerns. Several dozen schools in the Palestinian territories have been named after people who have been involved in terrorist attacks. That's something that worries me. We know that prison pay is a theme that many countries are concerned about, and that other European countries have cut parts of their assistance on the basis of it. I think it is sad that the representatives before me, from the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party, both used their interventions to attack that such concerns are addressed by government councils in Stortinget, rather than devote some time to the issue itself, which is that there are more concerns that Norwegian aid can go to organisations that have unfortunate ties. With regard to NGO Monitor, it is not that these concerns have been addressed only on the basis of enquiries we have received from this organisation, although we are receiving many enquiries from both this and other organisations. I would also like to say that for a long time, since my youth, I have been very concerned with these very things, and that in Israel's friends at the Grand Council as late as September we had a study trip to the Palestinian territories and Israel, and also visited several of the beneficiaries in the Palestinian territories. Much Norwegian assistance goes to good things, but it is important that we dare to ask the critical questions when we have genuine and legitimate concerns that Norwegian aid and tax money can go to unlucky organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1604	Thank you for the debate. It is important, and I want more debate related to the field of development – that we should dare to have those discussions. I hope there'll be even more of that in this hall as well. I just want to figure something out. Possibly the interpellant was injured to exaggerate the aid to UAWC when he said they had received 50 million kroner. kr. So that's 2 million. kr per year, where the total over the project period is 7.9 million. I'll give you $2.5 million. kr that goes to food safety. But the total project, where there are many donors inside, is above 50 million. kr. I am also glad that Gulati mentions the example where we have withdrawn the support, and we will continue to do so. We do not require cooperation organisations to support Norwegian development policies in one and the same way. They may be opposed to two-state solutions, and they may criticize us for withdrawing the aid after calling up buildings after terrorists. That's the way it must be if we're going to build democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1613	The debate on substance is closed. 9 is over. So today's map is ready to debate. The store is now taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1636	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1645	Case No. 1 and 2 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to Acts 44 and 45. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1659	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Else-May Norderhus on behalf of the Labour Party and the Greens the proposals No 4 and 5, from Else-May Norderhus on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 6 and 7, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on proposal No. 8, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the possibility that guarantees of origin can only be sold from new renewable power generation and only for a limited period after the start of production, for example until the power plants have been depreciated.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1689	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting by the first half of 2020 with the notified case following on how changes can enable the renewable energy system with guarantees of origin and the product declaration for electricity to function better than today.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to initiate an investigation into the operation of the system of guarantees of origin in line with its intention to set up it and the concrete results achieved for the increased production of renewable energy’.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1713	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the tariff model of Statnett is designed in such a way that the cost share of the industry reflects in an objective and retrospective manner the costs it actually places on the network.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government to determine and submit to the Storting a model that provides an equivalent tariff level for high-use large consumers irrespective of whether electricity is derived from the regional or transmission network.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1735	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Greens' Environment Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Statnett resigns from the Association of Issueing Bodies [[AIB]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1760	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for guarantees of origin to have no impact on the climate reporting of energy consumers. Power consumption in Norway, irrespective of guarantees of origin, must be demonstrated as renewable.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the NVE changes its guarantee of origin websites to include a pie chart with physical power consumption and to clearly describe the difference between Norwegian power consumption based on guarantees of origin and actual physical consumption, and to reproduce CO 2 intensity per power source, not a total CO 2 intensity of the residual mix.’ Red has notified support of the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1792	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1797	There are then 73 representatives who have voted in favour of the Committee's position and 28 representatives who have voted in favour of the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Greens' Greens' Party. - That's how the suspension is adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1809	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 6 and 7, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to make a proposal to open up to support the leasing of solar photovoltaics and return to the Stortinge in connection with the State budget for 2021.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: «As a general rule, the government is asking for buildings owned by the State to choose solar solutions and/or green roofs in the case of new buildings. The same must apply to existing roof surfaces where appropriate.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1842	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks for an incentive scheme for solar cells, where the climate pressure in production is emphasised.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals to ensure that the same legislation applicable to support for households' photovoltaics is also applicable to agricultural construction.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set the target for Norway to have a solar photovoltaic capacity of 5 GW installed by 2030.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make a proposal to open up medium-sized photovoltaic plants between 15 and 100 kW and return to the Stortinge in connection with the State budget for 2021.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal to reintroduce aid for the installation of solar photovoltaics on new buildings and return to the Stortinge in connection with the State budget for 2021.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1927	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1946	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 2, by Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party and the Greens proposal No 3, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose amendments to the concession law for wind power in order to impose the same public ownership requirements for wind power as too much hydropower.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1975	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Centre Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that wind power development decisions are in line with local and local government decisions. Concession may not be granted in breach of local government decisions.’.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e1992	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to decide and to propose a wind receding system as it is for hydropower.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e2034	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e2053	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 4, by Jon Georg Dale on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide for a clear geographical differentiation between wild game and grazing animals.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a follow-up to the point of the robberies agreement that the achievement of the bear stock level shall not require land beyond today’s breeding areas.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the point of the predatory game agreement be followed by the government to avoid predators representing a potential damage in priority pastures or calving areas for pure.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e2098	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the bear population, including bear pens, is managed on the basis of the two-part objective, so that the separation and management between predatory and grazing priority areas is not altered from the decisions of the wild game settlement.’; The Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e2152	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e2164	Case No. 8 and 9 were interpellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-03.ana.ud230e2225	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
