ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e93	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Environment Party of the Greens has submitted an application for sick leave to the representative of Une Bastholm from 8 December onwards and until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the permission of the representative of Une Bastholm for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of Oslo, Kristoffer Robin Haug, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e122	The representative of Mona Fagerås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e127	On behalf of Freddy André Øvstegård, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on a national read-only strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e132	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e137	President! I would also bring up a proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e142	It has not been delivered, so I would recommend that it be delivered today and promoted tomorrow. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e163	When Norway enters the UN Security Council from the turn of the year, it is in line with our long-standing support for the UN and multilateral cooperation. It is in line with the long lines of Norwegian foreign policy – which have broad support in Stortinget. It's also in line with our interests. Preventing the weakening of international legal order and multilateral governance systems is Norway's foremost foreign policy interest because it is so crucial for our security, our economy and our well-being. We are taking place around the table in the Security Council at a time when multilateral cooperation is under pressure – paradoxically, one might say, at a time when the world needs more committed international cooperation, not less. In the last eight months, what happens when a pandemic hits the whole world has been clearly shown. The last eight months have also shown the importance of supporting international institutions. Global challenges can only be resolved jointly. Norway has an open economy that is largely based on international trade. We are also in a world of security tensions. We are dependent on and earned with international and predictable rules of play. It makes the world safer and more stable. We are also best served with a multilateral world order in which small and large states cooperate on common solutions, which prevent the acts of the storm alone and prevent power from taking precedence over the right. We ourselves have to take responsibility for maintaining and further developing international cooperation and the legal order we depend on as a nation. As a small country, Norway has a strong interest in maintaining international law and strengthening compliance. There is no doubt that membership of the Security Council is important for Norway and Norwegian interests, even if the work becomes demanding. Membership gives us a broad platform to promote Norwegian positions and, overall, will increase our space for foreign policy action and strengthen our relative influence. A good example of this is European cooperation. Membership of the UN Security Council could increase Norway’s relevance to the EU and European Allies. It provides a good starting point for further developing European cooperation patterns in a way that also provides a long-term score for Norway and in a European policy context. The period in the Security Council provides Norway with increased visibility, access to information and access to key actors — in short, increased foreign policy resources. It facilitates the so-called supply side, including in European cooperation. We need a common approach to ensure an overall European response on issues that have a direct security policy impact on Europe, and to avoid European countries becoming weak in a major geopolitical strategic rivalry. It is in the Norwegian interest to contribute to increased international stability by preventing new conflicts, settling ongoing conflicts and ensuring international peace and security. Several of today’s security challenges with implications for Norwegian security are taking place in Europe’s eastern and southern neighbourhoods. Nevertheless, if there is something modern conflicts and international terrorism have taught us, it is that the geographical dimension means much less than before. War, conflict and terrorist networks can also have major consequences for us. For a country with a self-interest in the respect and enforcement of international law, it is important that, at regular intervals, we take the responsibility of being one of fifteen members who take decisive decisions on international peace and security. Multilateral cooperation is sometimes demanding but over time profitable. Finding solutions together with others means accepting compromises and committing ourselves beyond our own interests. Nevertheless, when we choose to do so, it is because multilateral cooperation in sum has served and serves us well and takes care of our values and interests. We have a significant experience through our long-standing engagement and contact policies in different peace processes that make us relevant in the Security Council. We also stressed this throughout the campaign period. With our independent voice, our clear and recognizable policy, our role as a reliable and constructive problem-solving player, and with international law as a baseboard, we are a country that is being listened to. It makes us well equipped to contribute constructively to the Council. The Norwegian candidacy of the Security Council was launched in 2007, and there was a long and focused effort when we were elected to the Council in June this year. Through changing governments and foreign policy relations, we have been working to secure Norway this place in the UN's main body. During the elections to the UN Security Council in June earlier this year, Norway received most of the three candidate countries in our geographical group and thus secured the place in the first round of elections. The broad support that Norway received from all electoral groups and parts of the world is a sound declaration of trust from the UN Member State. It gives us an important mandate when we enter the Council on 1 January. We then take on one of the most demanding tasks in international politics. It also triggers responsibilities and responsibilities. I will now say more about what Norway will work for, and what we want to achieve in the Security Council. Norwegian interests and respect for international law, including humanitarian law and human rights, will underpin our work in the Security Council. Our priority areas of action are a natural extension of Norwegian foreign policy. We will use our experience from peace diplomacy to strengthen the Security Council's efforts to prevent and resolve conflicts. We want to work to protect civilians, including children, ensure women's participation and rights in peace processes and to raise security challenges that are reinforced by climate change. At the same time, we want a realistic approach to the task. That means we're starting from the real situation and the existing power conditions of the Security Council. Our room for action needs to be assessed in the light of concrete conditions. We will communicate Norway's interests and justify our position towards other countries. The demanding geopolitical situation and the broad agenda of the Security Council require us to prioritise and focus our efforts. Targeted and performance-driven efforts shall achieve real change ‘on the ground’. However, Norway cannot achieve results alone. Therefore, it is important to maintain the good relationship with our close allies, including the United States, but also to seek support and cooperation across established dividing lines. In the campaign, we focused on transparency, inclusion and cooperation and talking to everyone during the campaign and during the Council period, whether there are other Council members, parties to a conflict or actors at country level. At the same time, Norway will seek to invite human rights defenders, peacemakers and other experts to inform the Council and to have good contact with civil society on matters on the Council's agenda. We have served the Security Council to be as open as possible and to abstain from important votes before decisions are taken. The UN Security Council is responsible for ensuring international peace and security and, for that purpose, has a mandate to take decisions which are legally binding on all UN Member States. The UN Charter provides the Security Council with a broad range of instruments to ensure international peace and security. The Security Council may, inter alia: encourage peaceful resolution of disputes, or impose sanctions on countries, terrorist groups and individuals, in order to increase the pressure on the parties in a conflict and contribute to a peaceful solution. Ultimately, the Security Council may authorise military use of force to restore international peace and security, either in the form of a UN-led peace operation or by the UN Member States. Today, 13 peacekeeping operations are established by the Security Council, most of them in Africa and the Middle East. The Council has also set up a number of so-called political tasks. It includes, inter alia: Special missions and special representatives of the Secretary-General, all of which report regularly to the Council. In addition, there are today 14 sanctions regimes established by the Security Council and followed up by underlying sanctions committees composed of members of the Council. The Security Council agenda is dominated by a number of long-standing conflicts. A total of 16 of the country situations on the Council’s agenda today were also discussed by the Council’s last meeting in Norway in 2001–2002. But many new conflicts and situations have also arisen. More than half of the approximately 35 country situations dealt with by the Security Council include African countries. About a third deals with countries in the Middle East. We will help the Security Council to deal as best as possible with the conflict resolution of these country situations. However, we must also be realistic: a number of these conflict situations will also be on the Council's agenda when we leave the Security Council in December 2022. Norway will give priority to the country situations in which we take precedence by means of long-term involvement, networking and experience. We have shown that we have the capacity to play a constructive role in peace processes in, for example, Colombia, the Middle East, Sudan, South Sudan and Afghanistan – all on the Council's agenda. Keywords for our peace and reconciliation exposure are good expertise, broad networks, contacts with all parties and long-term work to build trust. Norway is well placed to contribute to peaceful conflict resolution in Africa and the Middle East through a very long-term commitment in both regions. We have built up competence in countries like Somalia, South Sudan and Sudan for a long time. In recent years, we have also significantly strengthened our involvement and networking in the Sahel region, among others. by establishing an embassy in Bamako and developing its own Sahel strategy. We also participate in international forums through, for example: The Sahel Coalition and the Sahel Alliance are in dialogue with the Sahel countries on both political issues, security and development cooperation. Our long-standing efforts and our long-standing involvement in the Middle East, especially in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, are internationally recognised and make Norway a central player. As a member of the Security Council, Norway will use our credibility, knowledge and contact networks to try to move these conflicts closer to sustainable policy solutions. At the same time, we are realistic about what results can be generated in the short and medium term. Several of today's major conflicts in the Middle East and North Africa, such as: in Syria, Yemen and Libya, internationalised conflicts are, in practice, strongly polarised and locked. Several of the conflicts in the Middle East and parts of Africa are not only local, but also significantly affect regional and international stability and security and hinder regional growth and development. In dealing with the different country situations, four thematic areas related to each other will be given particular priority: The first is the diplomacy of peace. Over the course of many years, Norway has gained unique experience and wide-ranging networks through peace diplomacy. We will use the insight of this peace exposure to strengthen the Council's work on conflict prevention and conflict resolution We will use our networks of actors on the ground to ensure that the Council is best informed about different aspects of conflict before decisions are taken. We want those affected by the conflict to be heard. It concerns the parties to the conflicts, but also the civilian population, victims, women and groups that will be important to ensure a lasting peace settlement. The second is the inclusion of women. We have worked systematically for a long time to ensure women's rights and participation in peace processes where Norway is involved. We have experience and partnership to attract. We are familiar with the challenges, but have also contributed to finding solutions. Our priority will be operationalisation and concrete results. We're going to work to ensure that the norms we've agreed on are followed up and implemented in the UN's various efforts at land level and in peacekeeping operations. In this way, we can help to ensure that women’s rights and participation are effectively respected in the UN peace and security effort – which is necessary to ensure lasting peace. The third is the protection of civilians. Norway will work for the protection of civilians in armed conflict, including the protection of children. Norway will contribute to the effective promotion of civil protection by the Security Council through full compliance with international humanitarian law and human rights. As a major humanitarian donor and humanitarian policy actor with a clear policy, we have knowledge and experience that we include in the Security Council. Close cooperation and dialogue with civil society will continue. In addition to protecting children in armed conflict, Norway will also give priority to preventing and combating sexualised violence in conflict and to highlighting the consequences of refugee and internal displacement. The fourth is climate and security. Climate and conflict are interrelated, and climate change often reinforces underlying conflicts. Follow-up to the Paris Agreement and the rapid reduction of greenhouse gas emissions will, of course, be the most effective world society can do to reduce the future conflict potential of climate change. However, in security policy, climate change is already recognised as a ‘threat multiplier’. Norway will work to discuss climate-related security threats in the Security Council. We will contribute to the fact-based information on how climate change is relevant to conflict in individual countries becoming part of the basis for Council decisions. Not all members of the Council recognise the link between climate and security. Norway’s efforts shall contribute to greater acceptance of the threat posed by climate to international peace and security and shall be recognised in the work of the Security Council. Through cooperation with the Norwegian Institute of Foreign Policy, the Swedish Peace Research Institute and the German trade unions, we will help to strengthen the professional basis for understanding how climate change affects the security situation. Through this, we will also contribute to building expertise and expertise in this area in the Nordic region. The four thematic areas of action are comprehensive and partly demanding in the light of the dynamism of the Council, and we are going to face many dilemmas and demanding balances. We must be realistic in terms of objectives, but through systematic and targeted efforts, we hope to be able to strengthen the Council's work in one or more of our priority areas, well aware that some Council members can see themselves serving to weaken or prevent the Council's commitment and responsibilities in these areas. In this work, we will need to seek a balance between strengthening the normative and thematic framework and preventing setbacks — in other words, preserving existing commitments. It will be necessary to balance the need to promote new resolutions in the Council against other measures that may provide better results, such as the protection of civil or conflict prevention. These assessments must be carried out on an ongoing basis with related Council members, civil society and stakeholders. The Security Council has 25 underlying bodies. 14 of them are sanction committees, the rest are expert groups, ad hoc committees and working groups. Norway is expected to chair one or more such committees and to become a member of all of them. These are both labour-intensive and politically sensitive issues and will be able to shape much of our work over the next two years. Negotiations on the executives of the five incoming members are still ongoing in New York. We hope for a solution before Christmas and prepare for one or more of these jobs. Norway has the ambition to take special responsibility for the follow-up by the Council of some country situations where we have a significant commitment, such as: the resolution on cross-border assistance in Syria. The situation in Syria is very complicated and the dynamics of the Security Council are polarized. There is a significant risk that the continuation of the resolution on cross-border assistance to Syria cannot be adopted. We're going into the Security Council for a difficult time. Clearly, the cooperation climate between permanent members is more tense than for a long time. Powers in change and stronger rivalries between major powers are becoming less willing to cooperate in resolving conflicts, including in the UN Security Council. In several of the main issues on the Security Council agenda, one or more permanent members of the Security Council have direct or indirect interests and may use their veto rights to prevent joint decisions. In recent years, the Security Council has had more acute discussions than the search for compromises. The relationship between the United States and China has become much more demanding. It is a development we have seen over several years, and among other things. is mentioned in the big message on multilateral cooperation presented by the government to the Stortingen last year. While the United States under President Trump has changed its position on important issues and has retreated to the multilateral arena, we have experienced a more confident China, which uses the opportunity to take more space, partly because there is a space available when the United States itself does not take that place. The United States is Norway's most important allies, and we look forward to good dialogue and close cooperation in the Security Council. Although we can expect a high degree of continuity on many issues of importance to us, the change of President in some areas can allow for increased cooperation with the United States, for example. related to global climate issues and global health. At the same time, there is reason to expect that the forthcoming Biden administration will have to spend a lot of time on domestic policies. The Coronapandemic is hitting the United States very hard, the economic challenges are great, and the incoming administration is facing a huge and difficult task of uniting a very fragmented United States. Russia is a dominant and central actor in the Council, whose fundamental view is that national sovereignty prevails over individual rights. Despite the fact that, in many cases, we have divergent views with Russia, we focus on having a pragmatic dialogue on international issues as well. However, we know that the political distance is large and can be demanding in individual cases. In line with China's growing multilateral ambitions, we also see in the UN Security Council that China likes to take a more visible position than before. China's size and economy is moving in the same direction. For China, it is essential that the Security Council respect national sovereignty. As a result, China has reservations that we believe are unfortunate for several thematic issues dealt with by the Council, not least the normative ones. At the same time, we feel that China is open to pragmatic cooperation in some areas. The relative force ratio in the world has been shifted east. There has been increased fragmentation and more unpredictability in the relationship between the five permanent members. However, the majority of matters in the Council are still being driven by Western countries, in particular the three permanent Western members, the United States, France and the United Kingdom, where Russia and China's main efforts are aimed at defying too strong a Western commitment. In the Security Council, the European dimension goes across elected and permanent members. There is a high degree of consensus between the five European members, although the block is changing and the number of EU members of the Security Council for next year has been reduced to three. Norway shall make use of the opportunities provided by the Security Council to strengthen cooperation with key European allies and with the EU. Cooperation with the EU and the EU's external service is central here, and regular consultations have been agreed between me and the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs, Josep Borrell, during the Security Council period. The three African members of the Council, together with the African Union, constitute an important regional group. Norway will work to strengthen the partnership between the United Nations and the African Union. It is a partnership that is important to succeed on the ground in several conflicts in Africa, not least in Somalia. Major power-rivalization and a geopolitical balance of power in change also create increased friction in the Security Council, but let me still nuance the picture somewhat. First of all, the impression of an action-damaged Security Council: conflicts of interest between major acts clearly affect the co-operation climate of the Council in individual situations. However, it is important to state that this does not apply in absolutely all cases as not all cases contributing to increased global tension end up at the Security Council table. This applies, for example: commercial policy. Nor is the Security Council the only international body dealing with issues that contribute to increased geopolitical tension. The members of the Council are still able to reach consensus in the majority of cases dealt with, not least in relation to country situations in Africa. Of the 58 resolutions that were voted on last year, 52 were adopted, 44 of them unanimously. In 2019, three vetos — Syria twice and Venezuela once — were closed, while three resolutions did not receive the necessary majority. Secondly, the impression of an isolated Security Council: the Security Council has only 15 members, but corresponds to all UN member states. When implementing decisions, the Council shall cooperate with the entire UN apparatus: the General Assembly, the ECOSOC and the UN Human Rights Council. The Secretary-General and his staff, as well as the Peacebuilding Commission and the 13 peacekeeping operations of the United Nations, are also central to this architecture. The same is true of the United Nations Development Organisations and Local Coordinators. Thirdly, that the majority of acts reduce our space of foreign policy action: the reality is that Norway is constantly dealing with the major acts. It doesn't change at the moment we enter the Security Council. It is part of the foreign policy realities of a country with our size and location. We have a lot of experience in dealing with it. Fourthly, the place in the Security Council is forcing a change in Norwegian foreign policy: Norway’s foreign policy priorities are firmly established. We will not adjust or change our policies as elected member of the Security Council. We build on the long lines of Norwegian foreign policy and shall continue to be consistent and predictable and stand for the principles and core interests that are important to us. That also characterises the campaign to be elected to the Council – that is what we have done, and what we have done over time, and the priorities we have in the Council, which was at the heart of our campaign. Those who disagree with our foreign policy line, for example. Our strong defence of human rights did not vote for us either. Those who agree, supported us. Although our policies are firm and we want to defend the relevance of the UN and the multilateral system, we are not going to succeed in making an impact on all our priorities. Where the powers have core interests at stake, it will be difficult to create movement and progress. For some thematic issues, the dynamics of the Council are very demanding, and we have to recognise that the best we can achieve in some situations is to prevent backsliding. But it is also an important task to ensure that previously laboriously negotiated normative text is not weakened or confused. We're going to be creative and resourceful. We are a small country without too many bonds. We have established relations with the five permanent members of the Security Council, and we have a long experience of cooperating across spheres of interest and traditional partners. The legitimacy of the Council rests not least on the contributions of the elected members. The permanent members may prevent veto decisions, but no decision may be taken without nine votes. The elected members of the Security Council have increased their influence over the last few years. In particular in areas where the five fixed acts of the veterinary medicinal product are split, such as: Syria, the elected members have been active, created a new room for action and contributed to concrete results. We will actively contribute to this cooperation, and I have already conducted consultations with both elected and non-elected members this autumn. The same is true of the civil service, precisely to identify areas of cooperation and opportunities for alliance construction, and to disseminate clear Norwegian priorities. Selected members such as Luxembourg, Australia, New Zealand, Sweden, the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium — to name a few — have done a good job in recent years. They have shown that creativity and long-term efforts have resulted in concrete, positive results for peace and security, both for thematic issues and in some country situations. Sweden continued, inter alia: the important work started by Luxembourg and Australia in 2013 and played a central role in ensuring the uptake of important resolutions on cross-border humanitarian aid to Syria. It has helped over three million acids in distress. This work has been very demanding for several years and seems to be even more politicized in the coming year. Germany, which leaves the Council when we step in, and which has been a significant player for its elected member period, has been especially driving forward the climate and security agenda. The Security Council is both the arena for political crisis management and for major act games. There is a lot of routine work, but also sometimes high voltage levels. This means that the Council's work not only becomes politically demanding, it also becomes labour- and resource-intensive. We should also be aware that, as a member of the Security Council, we are being subject to increased interest and increased opportunities for pressure in a way that is different from our usual practice. In several cases at the Security Council table, there may be a fight over the narrative where all funds are used, including disinformation. To counteract this, we need to be alert, have good situational understanding by following the media image and social media closely. At the same time, we must be forward-looking in our public communication on our own positions. The Covid-19 pandemic also further complicates the working conditions of the Council. During the Russian Presidency in October, for the first time since March, some physical meetings of the Security Council were attempted during rigorous infectious measures, while almost all meetings in November were held digitally. It is not possible to predict now what the meeting format will be when we enter the council in January. The disease situation in New York will of course be defining, and covid-19 will certainly characterize the first time in the Council. The absence of a face-to-face meeting also reinforces an already demanding climate of cooperation. In addition, procedures become more complex when the Security Council is unable to process and adopt formal products in a meeting room. Lack of agreement on working methods and a swirled written voting process do not make the situation easier. In a normal situation, the Security Council usually meets twice a day. An enhanced UN delegation is the spearhead of our work, but the whole foreign service is contributing. We have a large network of embassies and contacts in the field that we want to pull on. Similarly, we need to benefit from the entire United Nations system. We must work with the Secretary-General and his staff, and we must move on to the knowledge of both UN Special Envoys and local coordinators. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs coordinates this work in close dialogue with the rest of the central government. A State Secretary Committee, chaired by the U.D., has been set up to strengthen government coordination and to resolve potentially demanding issues. It is also important to ensure continued anchoring of Norwegian foreign policy in elected bodies. The long-standing practice of government briefing and consulting the United Kingdom on important foreign policy issues in the enlarged Foreign and Defence Committee will also apply to matters and needs during the period of Norway’s membership of the United Nations Security Council. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has focused on transparency throughout the Norwegian campaign for a place in the Security Council. I have briefed the Foreign and Defence Committee twice during the campaign period, and the Security Council campaign was the subject of the Foreign Policy Statement in the Stortinget and the subsequent debate in March. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also published half-yearly reports on the costs incurred — and the costs borne — during the campaign period, and 29 September this year the total financial costs of the campaign were also presented. As far as we are aware, there are very few other countries that have practiced a similar transparency related to campaign costs. We also plan for regular contact with civil society, humanitarian actors and research communities. And then we will use our membership of the Council for a public change of words on international issues and security – both in Norway and internationally. Sitting in the Security Council offers a particularly good opportunity to support precisely the United Nations, international law and the rest of the multilateral system that is crucial to Norway’s security and sovereignty, economy and well-being. It is in the Norwegian interest to contribute to addressing threats to international peace and security in the Security Council, rather than directly between the major acts. Once again, in January, we will be in the Council for the fifth time Norway will be in the Security Council. We are getting better networks and closer contact with several countries that are important in promoting our own interests and in defending and expanding our space for foreign policy action. But space can also give us benefits in other areas. Through the close daily contact with the major acts and other Council members, we get political capital and knowledge that makes us a more relevant interlocutor in other venues as well. It is important to promote Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e364	The President will now, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 45, open a short comment round limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and final statements from the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e369	Let me start by thanking the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a broad and good presentation and for a very good work on the campaign. The campaign had broad support through several governments and support from all parties except the Progress Party and Red here in Stortinget. And as the Foreign Minister says, we will be consulted and have many discussions on the issues in question during this period. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs was about, we are in a time when the world is marked by unrest, change and unforeseeableness. The streamlining of large-scale power contributes to the effective blocking of key issues in the Security Council’s ability to function properly. It will not be a simple task, but it must nevertheless be a general goal for Norway in the Security Council to contribute to the Council's re-establishment of the role of an arena and a decision-maker. A functioning Security Council is exactly what we need to end the bloody civil war in Yemen, a long-standing conflict with very extensive human suffering. The conflict in Yemen is linked to the tension between Saudi Arabia and Iran. Here the Security Council can play a role. The same applies to Israel and Palestine and – not to forget – Syria. Norway’s role in the Council is to act as a bridge builder and organiser — with a balance sheet in order to build consensus while avoiding paralysis. With a Biden administration in place from 20 January, the task will hopefully be somewhat easier, but it will not be easy. Peace and security are best ensured through predictable international cooperation based on international law, not by the law of the strongest. Then it's a prerequisite that the UN Security Council actually works as intended. In Norway’s campaign to gain space in the Security Council, four main areas of action were highlighted. It was the diplomacy of peace, equality, civil protection and the link between climate and security. These are important themes. It's a fairly comprehensive field of action, and the themes aren't very controversial, at least not in most places. What it is natural to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about is what it is in these areas she actually wants to prioritise. When we're sitting around the table, I guess the approximation might change a little bit. If we are to achieve real results and improvements, we need completely concrete, pointed initiatives and things. That's enough rhetoric in the United Nations system. We need some very specific priorities. We need to give priority to making permanent changes, such as: Sweden’s priority in the period 2017–2018 was to secure humanitarian emergency aid into Syria. In addition to these two requests, I believe that first of all, we must ensure that the Security Council can actually work as intended. That's the one. The second is to have a pragmatic priority of completely concrete matters. That's the other one. Thirdly, I would like to highlight the need to be able to deal with unexpected new issues. When Norway sat in the Security Council in 2001 and 2002, we experienced both September 11 and the admission to the Iraq war in the 24 months. It was very important historical events that it was hard to predict when we were running election campaigns and campaigning at the end of the 1990s. But the time that will now be much about the Middle East, as the Foreign Minister also spoke about in his presentation. The Security Council's agenda is governed by events, by unexpected events, and not only in the Middle East, and then we have to be prepared for the best of our ability. It's wrong to say that the coronary apathy is such an unexpected event. The risk to it was known. The link between health and safety may not initially be a core task of the Security Council, but, as Kofi Annan put AIDS on the agenda of the Security Council around 2000, it is an essential task for the Security Council to play a role, for example. by ensuring that vaccines also reach conflict-affected regions. We are historically low in many UN operations, and we need to be prepared to participate more in such operations in order to promote quality. It is natural that the Minister of Foreign Affairs also says something about it in his summary. The work of the Security Council will, after all, be demanding, but from the Labour Party we believe that Norway should have sufficient confidence to act as an actor on the track and around the meeting table, not just as a passive spectator on the stand. I look forward to further cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e397	I would also like to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for an excellent statement and perhaps even more clearly saying that I think the Stortinget should cost itself to congratulate the foreign management on a very successful and wise campaign, because it was not bad countries we competed with ‘in our constituency’ to say so. The UN is in a special position among intergovernmental organisations. There is no such meeting place for intergovernmental cooperation globally, and the Security Council is the only body with a bearing on the maintenance of peace and security, and can take binding decisions on international law, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also pointed out. It is in the interest of the small states to protect the UN and international law and to help address threats to international peace and security in the Security Council, rather than the old way, that is, directly between the major acts. The participation of the elected members in the Council gives legitimacy to the Security Council, even if decisions can be blocked by the five veto acts, two of which are more or less totalitarian dictatorships. You can then ask if the place put at the disposal of the Western Electoral Group could not have been filled as well by other countries. We were in competition with such excellent countries as Canada and Ireland. And this is depot, I have the feeling, for later articles. I would say, however, that it has a self-esteem that Norway participates, because Norway is Norway, with our long traditions of peace-building and recognition of human rights, but also because we represent the Nordic region and are the Nordic voice. It is important because, in many contexts, Norway is perceived internationally to be somewhat deterred in terms of political commitment to participation in Europe. So it is important that both Norway and the Nordic countries regularly not only present their views internationally, but also say yes to participation in bodies that decide more from day to day. I noted with pleasure that the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that Norway should be clear and recognizable on its entry and based on the long lines of foreign policy. International law and human rights will be a priority. The situation in individual countries is an important part of the agenda of the Security Council. Last year, half of the cases were in Africa and 30 in Africa. land in the Middle East. It is also natural for Norway to take a heavy part in the discussion about and with those countries because we have experience and networks of past exposures. I also believe that many will nocquaint themselves with the fact that Norway will work to improve the protection of civilians, with particular emphasis on children's vulnerability to conflict and war. We are a major humanitarian player who has knowledge and experience to include in the Security Council. Climate problems are also a source of conflict. Norway will work towards discussing climate-related security threats in the Security Council and the Council’s ongoing assessment of how climate change can pose a risk. We also look forward to what is established as a sub-target for Norwegian membership of the Security Council, that we should be a driving force for reforms that can improve the UN and make the organisation more effective. It is in the interest of our and all other smaller states that the multilateral system works well and that international law can be enforced. Majority interests make it difficult to reach a strong consensus and, of course, limit the scope for action of the selected Member States, but it is important to state that this does not apply in all cases, as mentioned above, and that there is still the ability to bring together the members of the Council on consensus in the majority of cases under consideration. Some have pointed out the danger of Norway entering conflict zones we are normally outside, by participating in the Security Council. But Norway is constantly dealing with the major acts, even in difficult cases. We are used to dealing with larger states – friendly and less friendly – regardless of whether we are in the Security Council. I'm sure there's an experience we can also use to handle our place there. The world needs more international cooperation, not less. As a country with an open economy based on international trade, we depend on a predictable world order. We must help ourselves to maintain and further develop the international cooperation that we depend on as a nation, and not expect others to do this for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e425	Let me also thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. "Where all think alike, no one thinks very much," wrote the American journalist and author Walter Lippman. Norway’s campaign for a place in the Security Council is such a story. Let me be the one that has a slightly different approach. We're going to use our place in the Security Council to take care of Norway's interests and values for a troubled time, wrote Prime Minister Solberg on Facebook. On Twitter, she described it as a good day because Brann won the season's first elite competition. The global against the local, with claims about the national — that includes everything. That's brilliant! Labour Party leader Jonas Gahr Støre wrote on his Facebook page: ‘It is a tradition for the Nordic countries to take on this mission’ – as if it were a job we consider a duty to ensure that the world is in safe hands. In fact, Norway should be very grateful that we sacrifice ourselves for such a mission. The leader and politicians of the Labour Party know that this is not the case. You don't spend $10 million in a 13-year campaign and push the Crown Prince of Norway in front of you to get a job. We know that sitting in this room, and we know that Norwegian press. Despite this, Norway’s seat in the Security Council was honoured. It was the day of celebration. However, no one was able to explain why Norway was better able to solve these problems than Canada. It was all a euphoric notion of how Norway's national excellence would spread on the global stage. It is certainly not a Western democratic country that Canada will be able to do. Who would suspect Canada to want or could use peace diplomacy, including women, protecting civilians, or focusing on climate and security? Politicians most and Norwegian media know that this is not the case, but it is precisely when it comes to appearing as sloppy and in reality not even reflecting on the potential negative consequences. Norway's message of peace and tolerance will overcome any doubt. Nobody – and I don't think so – has considered whether a Norwegian membership can harm Norwegian interests, that an active Norwegian involvement can conflict with one of the permanent members of the Security Council, that Norway's activism can randomly escape real policy, that an involvement for one side in a conflict or activism in a climate-related issue can have national consequences in completely different areas and actually harm our national interests, for example in terms of trade, or that our clear verbal support to one of the permanent members can put us in a self-absorbed political dilemma where we are drawn into a superpower debate that violates Norwegian security policy interests, or that we take a clear stand on a climate issue that violates one of the interests of the permanent members. It can harm both our security policy interests and our trade policy interests at the same time. And we're doing this on a voluntary basis. I understand that there are many Norwegian officials and diplomacy who see opportunities and interesting work tasks with Norway's membership. When there are 14 subcommittees and Norway is to lead one or more of them, it goes without saying that there are opportunities here. It's quite natural to think like that. Everyone thinks that way. Nor is it strange that the same office and diplomacy have been drivers in the marketing of the Norwegian candidacy. The Norwegian candidacy has survived quite a number of foreign ministers, and everyone has been eager to do so for 13 years. So now you've done well, and the government has been waiting 13 years to get the opportunity, so now it's really important to show that we can do this. Even journalists have an interest in the fact that Norway’s diplomats now have access to the internal conveniences of major policy. Reports from New York are not exactly the same, and when Trump is gone, you get a new opportunity to really report and be inside. Of course, it's a matter of being inside – everyone likes it. Producing Norway’s seat in the Security Council as a guardian of Norway’s national interests is not even a truth of modification. It's an excuse and a pretext that this is very important. The fact that this is in Norway’s national interest does not make any sense. There is a greater chance that this will harm Norway’s interests. Not only is it expensive and expensive – it will attract many diplomats, we will get new ambassadors, many good jobs – but in terms of trade and security policy, where we may potentially have to take either the position of China or the United States, because they stand against each other, it may harm us in terms of security policy or trade. There we should be – we should represent Norway and not global interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e450	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for coming to the Stortinget and giving us a good idea of Norway and the government's priorities in the UN Security Council – and congratulations on a successful campaign, which I also got to see a little bit of closeness when I got to join the UN one year ago. It was both instructive and inspiring. Since its creation in 1945, Norway has been a cohesive supporter of the United Nations, both politically and economically. Norway has a national interest in defending the UN and international law. Not least the right of the sea is important for Norway. It gives Norway the right to sea areas that otherwise would have been difficult for us to guarantee the right to dispose of. It also shows the importance of multilateral organisations and work for Norway. Unlike the previous speaker, I would argue that it is definitely in Norway's interest that we now have a seat in the UN Security Council. It is the case that the UN and multilateral cooperation are under increasing pressure, but for a small country such as Norway, well-functioning multilateral cooperation is decisive rather than that the major acts are interdependent. The Security Council is also the only body responsible for international peace and security whose mandate is to take binding decisions on international law. And they act not only on behalf of those who sit around the table, but on behalf of all the Member States. Norway is a small country, but we have a separate, independent voice in global society. In its briefing, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed the importance of close cooperation with the EU. It is important to cooperate with countries in Europe, but Norway must not be so closely bound to the EU's compromise that we lose the opportunity to take advantage of our independent voice to raise issues and support proposals that could be demanding for the EU to alone. Norway will be the voice of the Nordics in the UN Security Council, after Sweden has done a good job in that role. We have to have a consistent and clear voice, and we have to be trustworthy and stand up for the matters that we want to raise. I don't want to mention a foreign minister's theme in his article. Linked to climate change and population growth, food security is an important factor in conflict resolution, says a report by the red-green government to develop the link between food security and social conflicts. In May 2018, the UN Security Council asked for a report on the extent, severity and causes of congestion in conflict zones. The report, prepared by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the World Food Programme, has been handed over to the Security Council, demonstrating clearly how armed conflict affects the lives of millions of men, women, boys and girls trapped in the crossfire. The Security Council Resolution 2417 condemns it as a weapon of war. The resolution requires all parties to the armed conflict to adhere to their obligations under humanitarian law in order to minimise the impact of military negotiations on civil, including food production and distribution, and to allow secure humanitarian access to civilians in need of vital food and medical assistance. This is a theme Norway should promise in the Security Council, as well as other priority areas. The millions of men, women and children who go to jail because of armed conflict will not be fewer until the basic principles of the resolution are followed. Norway has also set up peacekeeping operations in addition to political and financial support. In 1949, five Norwegian military officers were sent to Kashmir to monitor the ceasefire between India and Pakistan. It was the first peacekeeping effort. Afterwards, 40,000 Northmen have participated in 25 peace operations under the UN regime. The central party believes that decisions in the Swedish Security Council should be the basis when Norway sends Norwegian soldiers on foreign missions. It gives an open and good discussion before one goes to such drastic steps. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister and her colleagues for closing down with a very demanding and important work in the Security Council, and I would like her to come back to Stortinget and discuss matters that she wants to deal with, and in which she should be involved and take a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e471	SV is a strong supporter of a UN-led world order, and we have not been against Norway seeking a place in the Security Council. But I might have some reservations that the debate until now suggests that there are not so many other parties that have. One is linked to the slightly panegyrian tone that sometimes characterizes this debate, as if it were making a big difference for the world itself that exactly Norway was part of the Security Council. It really depends on how we actually act, and how that influence is managed. It is again linked to our second reservation: the issue of Norway has the independence to act in a way that is needed by the Security Council in the international situation we have right now. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation. I think it is good for her to address what becomes a very central issue, that is, what the Foreign Minister calls a "great-power argument". It has two sides. I believe that there is a broad consensus among the parties that the type of major action which is concerned with the pressure from authoritarian acts in the East, for example. related to human rights is something that we have to face with firmness and without yielding. But what the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not discuss is the second type of major action case in which Norway can end up, namely the pressure from the Allied power in the West. There is, of course, a very central question for this debate – how will Norway deal with it? The premise that we should be able to be a voice that makes a difference in many of the main conflicts is that one dares to think anything other than the most powerful country in the Security Council, as this government has made Norway more and more dependent on security policy and military. Therefore, I fear that in the next few years, if that course continues, we will see that Norway, instead of taking the bridge builder role we need now, is joining in to cement a new block policy by following the United States more uncritically on international issues, as we have seen, unfortunately, through the changed attitude both from the government and from the Workers' Party on the issue of the international ban on nuclear weapons, which we all know about seventh and lastly is about US loyalty more than anything else. We also see it right now in the issue of access to covid vaccines, where Norway has incomprehensiblely committed itself to the United States and the EU position in the WTO instead of following the wishes of the poor countries. There is another type of bridge builder role that we believe Norway has to take in this position – a bridge builder role between the rich and the poor world, where we show that there are states in the rich part of the world who dare to stand up for the rights of low-income and middle-income countries. The behaviour of Norway in TRIPS and the WTO right now on the vaccine issue is not encouraging in terms of our ability to do so. I think it is good that the Minister of Foreign Affairs so clearly emphasises that the climate is a security issue. Then it'll be exciting to see how the government will follow up on this. What does it mean to put it on the agenda of the Security Council? After all, there is no doubt that the climate crisis will be absolutely crucial and crucial for the development of security policy in the coming years, and that the climate crisis, if not stopped, will trigger new conflicts over resources and large new refugee flows. Getting an international framework, for example: how one manages it will be absolutely crucial. But once again, Norway’s own practice is a question that will determine what kind of credibility we have internationally. For example, it gives us a credibility problem that, at the same time as we are talking about the problematic effect of the climate crisis in creating new conflict zones around the world, we are even participating in an oil race up in the Arctic. Finally, I would like to stress the need for Norway to use this situation to stand up to oppressed people like the Palestinians in the Security Council. It's also a test of our ability to be an independent voice. Finally, I would like to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs to address something that we think is important, namely openness and anchoring in the Stortinget – whether she can say anything about how she thinks to ensure that there is an extra openness and anchoring Norway's efforts in the Security Council in these two years towards opinion and not least towards the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e490	Thank you for showing so much openness and including Stortinget, as she has just done with the statement we have now received, and for the openness that has been in the process. I'm going to admit that the Left too has had its objections to this process, not on the basis of the line of argument presented here by the Progress Party, but on the assumption that it requires a lot of resources and also some compromises to make such a process. The question is: is is there the correct resource usage? But now we're here, and now we have to use the chance that that gives us. This chance also means that we can just be a force in block policy that can promote Norway’s interests when international structures and cooperation are becoming more and more important all the time. Some may wish that we had given up space for a larger country, but in the context of the Light Hill comments on a block-shared world, I believe that we are at all there, that Norway participates in the Security Council, as it is an argument that we are going for a world order where the small countries also have an opportunity and a power, and where we cannot be dominated by as much as we have seen in recent years. I guess I don't think the challenge is Norway's connection to the United States, but a wild-track United States and a China that gets more and more power internationally – just so it's said about the framework. I want to focus on two of the main efforts that the Foreign Minister made in his very good and thorough presentation. Here we see that the commitment to women and equality is also important in our commitment to the Security Council. It has characterized the entire civil age in the government that girls and education have been raised in particular in the aid perspective, and that the question of Swedish foreign policy has always been raised for some time: «Where are the women?» That it is always a mantra for the Nordic countries in international policy, I think it is important in the future. The pandemic has weakened the position of women, and it's important that someone join in raising that theme. We see that also in peacemaking, the focus on women's participation is an important element in achieving positive developments in this area. The second of the four areas of activity that I want to raise in this debate is climate. Clearly, what is going to create most refugee flows in the future, and what is also going to give rise to additional challenges in the fight against poverty in the world, is climate. If we do not cope with the great climate change that we can face, we will see great movements of people across borders, and the development of poverty. If you are concerned about limiting refugee flows, you should be extremely committed to tackling the climate challenges. Now we get a 'climate emperor' in the United States — a dramatic change from not being part of international agreements to introduce such titles. We in the Left view it's very positive that we can now get the United States on the team. This is going to be an important premiscuous provider of international policy in the future, and it is important that Western democracies are in the leadership to tackle those challenges. This has been a terrible year with regard to the pandemic, but it has also been one of the hottest years in Norway. So taking care of our climate – and safeguarding the classic nature protection within, for example. sea and marine litter — must be one of the main starting points for our participation in the Security Council. So I am very pleased with the openness of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the priorities of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and from the left, women and climate will be the two k's that we hope will be on the list of the Minister for Foreign Affairs first.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e507	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good report and congratulate those who have helped us to achieve results. Norway now has its seat in the Security Council, the highest body in the United Nations, for two years. There will be a tension between ambitions and expectations, and I noticed that the minister pointed out that we have to be realistic. At my age, having followed foreign policy for all years, I would agree that the space for action here is limited, but we have to make the most of it. Since its establishment after the Second World War, Norway has been committed to defending international law and contributing to international peace and security. For the Christian People's Party it will be particularly important to emphasise humanitarian law and human rights. I would also point to Norway's geographical position as an Arctic nation. It's a side by Norway. We have a long history as a maritime nation and are known in the world. We're a global, big port, and we're bordering on a power force. That is why we have views and a history and experience that should be heard and understood internationally. At the same time, we have a well-being and a wealth that obliges us to participate in international cooperation. Peace and stability are created by the presence of those who vote for peace and stability in tone-setting bodies. Yes, the composition reflects the results after World War II, and it gives the body specific challenges. I would therefore like to remind you that the insertion of António Guterres as Secretary-General was a new grip. He came from a largely neutral country after World War II, and expectations were attached to him that he could help make the UN more effective and more determined. I'm glad I heard him at his UN accession speech. The municipal committee here also greeted him when we visited him as UN refugee commissioner in Geneva during the previous period. Norway has been active in multinational cooperation for several decades. We are a small country with a lot of resources that needs all the contacts we can have with the rest of the world. Yes, it is for its own benefit, but it is also so that others can benefit from our values, our wealth and the society we have built up. It's important to remember. I am therefore pleased on behalf of the Christian People's Party with the four priority areas selected. It's very good to have four goals. Clearly, diplomacy of peace, strengthening the Council's work on conflict resolution and conflict prevention, are very important. Because we don't have to be ourselves enough when we see how the world hangs together. Securing women is very important. It's gender equality work, and we know that women who have a reasonably good daily life will strengthen a community and build up their community environment. For the Christian People's Party, I would point to civil society as one of the most important things – protecting civilians, including children – and Norway has a long tradition. We have unhelp, we have mision, aid and humanitarian organisations, and we have assisted in natural disasters. All of this gives a separate dimension, I believe, to Norway's membership of the Security Council. It is clear that climate and security are interrelated, i.e. that conflict and climate are interrelated, and that Norway points this out as a new contribution to work. It's a speck, maybe, but for the best of children, it's for the best of all, also of adults and of the nation. And securing women in a civil society is vital. I want to be happy with an unreasonable effort, with being a pragmatic bridge builder, and with meeting and seeing challenges in a global perspective. Pandemic is one thing, but it's people and parts of the world that are struggling with great challenges, with hunger and other disease groups. I experienced the struggle for words in the United Nations. Everything takes a long time, but where else are we going to discuss such things globally? I am proud that we are now going to mannify the Security Council, and I wish the Foreign Minister, the U.D. and the delegation good luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e537	A democratic anchoring of Norwegian policy in the Security Council is important, because the Security Council takes major and important decisions that are generally bound by international law to Norway. But it doesn't take the government enough seriously, we mean. Only today’s presentation, just three weeks before Norway accedes to the Council, says some of it. Southside's had a whole time since June, so why only now, at the very last of the year? This means that the Stortinget will not be given the opportunity to make any decisions until after Norway has acceded to the Security Council. When we first step in, politics, we mean, can't be made up of a crazy top diplomat in New York. We need to ensure that the money is spent wisely, and that the policy serves Norwegian interests. Here, however, there is a problem: to get this place in the Security Council, Norway has concluded a wide range of voice exchange agreements with other countries. Which countries do we not know, just that several of them are not excellent democracies, to say that. And what the agreements oblige Norway to do, we don't know, because it's customary among diplomats to keep such agreements secret. How can we be sure that they work for Norwegian interests, and how can we verify that? We can't guarantee that. Therefore, in October, Red promoted proposals to ensure a democratic anchoring of our work in the Security Council. What we want is transparency about Norway's voice exchange agreements and policies in the Security Council, including a system in which the government presents important issues to the Storting in advance of their being dealt with by the Security Council. Unfortunately, that proposal has not been answered very quickly and efficiently by the ministry. They have waited so long to give an opinion to the committee that the committee does not reach – we do not reach – to deal with the matter before the new year, due to the urgency of the department. In our view, it is a little arrogant by the Department, but more importantly, without democratic anchoring and a clear mandate for the work of the Security Council, we risk making the same mistake as the last time we sat in the Security Council, when Norway unfortunately proved to be loyal to the United States in one and the same way. Peace researcher Stein Tønsson has summarized his analysis of why we failed the last time, as follows: ‘ The consensus principle was pushed too far. [[...]] When the most powerful member of the Security Council showed less respect for multilateral agreements and asserted his right to attack other Member States militarily, even without a UN mandate, situations had to arise from which the only right thing was to say clearly and clearly.’ [[...]] But Norway didn't do that at the time. There's reason to believe that we can put ourselves on a similar line this time too, and it's no less problematic that the internal contradictions of the powers are considerably stronger than they were 20 years ago. I notice that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not respond to the commitments made by the diplomatic corps on behalf of Norway in order to obtain the place in the Council. I also wonder why the government does not see the need for a stronger democratic anchor here in the Storting of policy to be pursued in the Security Council. Then I am pleased with what is said about international law – that is important. But I probably didn't hear any very clear and clear commitments. For example, why won't the government support Red's proposal to have the International Criminal Court enforce the war ban on international law? That proposal is in Stortinget, but is not supported by the government parties, as we have seen so far. So I finally wonder if the government has learned anything from the last time, 20 years ago. Can we expect a different policy from what we saw back then? In a film that has become a kind of tradition at Christmastime, Hugh Grant’s Prime Minister’s character says, ‘We may be a small country, but we’re a great one, too.’ Is there any hope that Southide too, when required, will stand up against the United States for Norwegian interests in the Security Council? Rather than following the United States, Norway can stand on an independent line that strengthens both the interests of small countries and places emphasis on international law and on international agreements. That's what Red goes in for. I hope that the government also chooses such a line, rather than the last one, where, unfortunately, we did what the Grand Power of the West wanted us to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e560	First I would like to say thank you for both nice words and good recordings, and also thank you for coming to Stortinget and explaining when I wanted to, because I believe it is important that before we go into the Security Council, we also discuss and review the main priorities we are going to have. So, as I said in my statement too, there is a high pace of work in the Security Council. That means we can have meetings several times a day, there are many things on the Council's agenda, but the fact that the Storting is both well-known and discusses the framework and priorities, I think is important. I will try in a few minutes to answer briefly some of the main questions that have come, and I regret in advance that not everything can be just as profound, for time's sake. But to the question from the committee leader first -- let me give some concrete examples of how we want to work on the four main priorities: in terms of civil protection, we have taken a particular international responsibility to fight and prevent sexual and gender-based violence. To that end, last year we had a large conference in Oslo where we collected money, but also had a reinforced normative effort. What we particularly focused on was the need for impunity for this type of offence. It is an important driver for this type of assault not to end. As regards climate and security, it is important to bring it up on the agenda of the Security Council. It has been difficult to do so now, and that is precisely why, in cooperation with NUPI, SIPRI and also German actors, we want to improve knowledge of the context. We believe that this may be important in raising the debate. As far as women, peace and security are concerned, we are concerned with implementation, as I said. I want to draw up two examples of how we work. One is that we support local women's brokerage networks, i.e. local in the meaning of other places in the world. It is important for a direct implementation. The other thing we do, which is a very important part of this, is that we use our experience from peace and reconciliation efforts to highlight the need for women to be involved early in the process, not at the end of the process. There are two examples. In the case of peace diplomacy, we have over 30 years of experience, and we have experience the Security Council needs. That is exactly why we believe that this can be an important part of this. So, of course, it's quite true, as the chairman of the committee says, that many unexpected events are going to affect our work, like the work of other countries. We're going to both have confidence and be realistic. It's an important side of this. Then Michael Tetzschner takes up the need for reform. I fully agree with that. It has also been part of our campaign, both greater transparency and better working methods in the Security Council, to achieve more, quite simply, as both an elected member and as permanent members. So to Tybring-Gjedde's points, whether it could harm Norwegian interests. I mean no. That doesn't mean, as I said, that we're not going to get into difficult dilemmas and have to make demanding balances. But I think what the representative Tybring-Gjedde ignores is that what we're doing, for example. on peace and reconciliation, is something where we have strong support from countries that otherwise disagree on many things. As far as Israel and Palestine are concerned, we are working as AHLC President with strong support from the United States. On the issue of Afghanistan, the same is true – Russia and China are also involved. So I mean on the contrary that what we're doing, among other things. Peace and reconciliation, also, is a security policy capital for Norway, which means that we are increasing our foreign policy space in other areas, and that is how we take care of our interests. Then we don't do this for my otherwise excellent office. We do this in order to ensure Norwegian interest, and it is important to underline this. So two things -- one is related to food safety. It's a very important problem issue that Navarsete mentions. We believe that there is often a consequence of climate change, which also has a huge impact on the potential for conflict. There is also one reason why Norway ratified on Friday the additional areas of warring practices laid down in the Rome Statute, namely that hunger cannot be used as a weapon in war. It's part of this. So finally – in 20 seconds – I just want to refer to the answer I've given to the Storting on both working methods, as the Storing is completely free to decide for itself, and what is the background to how we act, like previous governments, in terms of voice exchange agreements. I do not need to go into more detail than what is stated in the letter, but just say that we are concerned by the government to have a good dialogue with the Storting on these matters. I believe that we can get good through both the times I am in Stortingen and explain, and the bodies that Stortinget has for that kind of discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e588	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on Norway’s membership of the UN Security Council for the period 2021 to 2022 be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Judicial Committee, cases shall become no. 2 and 3 treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e620	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after submissions from the main speakers of the lots and five lines of response from members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e629	President! As spokesman for the case, I would like to point out that the government has made suggestions to reduce the number of District Courts from 60 to 23 and the number of Earth Change Rights from 34 to 19. I assume that the government party and the Progress Party are doing their own thing in the debate. From this pulpit we shall never speak directly to other representatives or members of the government present in the Chamber. We're always going to start our posts by titulating the prime minister. This is a custom we're used to, but rarely does it fit as well to start by saying exactly the word president as today. The first thing I'm going to do is simply something the prime minister himself and the majority of the presidency did earlier in the fall. The major case of changes in the court structure came from the government to the Stortinget in October. Things that come to Stortinget after the summer are usually processed after Christmas, especially bigger things like this. Nevertheless, the presidency did something as special as following a complaint from the Right Party of the Committee, which wanted a much faster handling of the cases. It would have been understandable if the presidency would have listened to the complaint if the majority of the committee had agreed to an irreprehensible short term of consideration. The majority of the presidency, on the other hand, chose the opposite variant. They're forcing an unresponsive rapid progress into action. We actually had to spend three whole months less on the matter than we first decided. Now it may seem that the government party and the Progress Party have fallen for their own grip. Was the self-imposed urgency simply too great for them to be able to hang out in the swings? Yes, it is quite clear to me, because there is nothing in the configuration today or in the minority proposals from the committee to which the majority of people can subscribe, which formally approves the proposals for a new court structure that the government has. Nor is it in the form of a decision stating whether or not to apply the amendments. Will 37 District Courts cease to exist from today, and will new, larger jurisdictions arise? No, there's nothing in the decision that's going to be done today, saying something if this is going to happen, or when. We have to say that the majority of the population today is only going to adopt changes in some paragraphs, but these changes have been made to all intents and purposes without the consequences being clear, and without the legislative changes being subject to the necessary distribution and hearing. The vote today will take place tomorrow at a time of urgency. It is worth noting all the different promises made by the Government Party and the Progress Party during the debate that has taken place in the media over the last six to seven weeks. Suddenly, they have guaranteed the staff of the courts to be converted into branches in new, larger courts. I don't think anyone added should be removed. But there is no suggestion about this for voting today, so the guarantee is of little value. The theme of the Committee's comments from the Right and the Advance Party is so vile that it can mean everything and nothing. Then, in the fall, the Council of State has suddenly claimed that there should be no headquarter in the new merged courts and that there should be equivalent courts. It is even as a premise in the claim to Malta that there should be several equivalent courts within one and the same jurisdiction. She herself, and many more from the government party, have claimed that no courts should be closed. The problem is that all this requires changes in laws. The government has no back coverage in today's laws for important promises they come with. Nor have they submitted proposals for such changes in the law, Prop. 11 L. What does this mean? Well, it suggests that the government has not thought well enough through what is required of changes in promises to implement the reform. In addition, several promises have arisen in a heated debate where they have realized that it pays to make promises about carrots, even though these carrots were not yet sown. The proposed judicial reform is a major reform. She is much bigger than the last court reform in 2001. What we're discussing today is not talking about a minor adjustment or a smaller aggregation of some few courts. There are massive changes in the organisation of the third state power. Major reforms should have broad settlements behind them in the Stortinget. Here we are dealing with a major reform with enormous significance for our rule of law, but with a sylt thin lashing. There is no decision in Stortinget today that determines the structure either. And the only decisions that were made, except for one, are missing out and previous hearing, as the custom is when important changes in laws are to be made. It says a little when both the Judiciary Association and the Sametinget have submitted a complaint today. In the Central Party, we are concerned that the rule of law should be in place throughout the country, and that major changes relating to courts and tribunals should go to the Grand Duchy as its own cause. Even so, the Government Party and the Advance Party will weaken with today's proposal for a decision. I take this into account the proposal of the Central Party, the Labour Party and SV on the legal structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e659	The representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e666	On page 5 of the proposition underlying the case, it says that the government wants a further court offer with strong professional environments throughout the country. In order to achieve this, it is recommended to extend the jurisdictions but to retain all the courts of the day. Furthermore, it states that the aim of the proposal is to ensure that the population is close to the courts and to maintain skills jobs in the districts. Why, then, does the Central Party go into the country's newspapers and say that 2/3 of the courts can be closed down, and that hundreds of jobs in the districts can disappear?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e673	In the Committee's comments, the Committee as a whole agrees that the Courts of First Instance should actually be set down. This can be seen from the comments. What we've been busy about in the Center Party is strengthening the courts that exist around the country, rather than turning them into so-called courts without their own leaders, as they have today, because we want to keep up with both the quiet scapegoats and the day-to-day leaders. In addition, we have put forward proposals in our alternative state budget to increase by one sentence in all the courts that now have one jurisdiction, so that they get two fixed positions. We want not only to secure the crew that is, but actually to strengthen the crew there. We think very differently than the Right on how to actually secure self-contained units. We mean to formally ensure those that independent courts are important, but also with their own leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e680	A number of heavy trade unions and district courts support the need for a structural change in order to provide the population with a good and equivalent court service throughout the country. The Center Party doesn't see this? Does the resistance to change mean that they put the interests of the party ahead of the legal certainty of the people?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e685	Legal certainty is an extremely important change, and a change that is not only related to the so-called robust changes that Right is talking about, but which is highly related to the distance and availability between the inhabitants and the legal state. Having an available rule of law in the whole country, with a high quality, as we have today, means that, as far as I think, we are number two when it comes to legal certainty worldwide. Then it's not the prescription to lay down these courts, but to strengthen them to the extent that we can. We have full potential for that, both by strengthening them in terms of staffing and digitisation, for which we in the Center Party have been in favour for years, but which the Right would keep to only the largest courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e696	It's an honest thing to disagree politically. We are often in this room. What may not be as good, on the other hand, is when claims are promoted in the media that are demonstrably false and that even help to undermine the credibility of the Storting, the National Assembly. The statement by the representative, Mrs Klinge, that there are no concrete proposals in the vote is wrong. These are very concrete proposals that will have consequences for staffing in Norwegian courts. My question is: does the Central Party feel comfortable using such strong words and really undermine the credibility of the National Assembly in its search for misinformed people out there about what this reform is all about? The reform will, of course, mean better legal certainty for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e703	If the representative Amundsen is concerned about the trustworthiness of bigots representatives and of the Stortinget, it may be possible to see a few months back in time, until May, when the Progress Party itself stood and guaranteed that all courts would stand, and that one would not change jurisdictions. So the Progress Party itself in the negotiations on the State budget finds that it is worth using the courts as the tongue on the scale and in practice negotiates future to 52 first instance courts against cheaper alcohol. They probably didn't get any cheaper booze, but there was a lot cheaper beer at least. I'm sure it's a big one. But in the case of Norway, it's not a big one. When it comes to the suggestions in the setting today, it is not the only proposal about staffing. There's something in minority comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e711	I asked the representative Klinge to read the setting again. Then I feel that the same procedure continues and only helps to disinform what this reform is actually about. For our part, it is about having courts, local courts, near people most, while at the same time implementing a good reform that strengthens legal certainty for people most. The premise for the debate to which the Central Party has put in place has helped to give people a completely different idea of the content of this reform. That's what I'm asking questions about. Can we not have an honest debate on real political premises instead of deliberately disinformationing and creating resistance based on false representations of the case? Or is it that we're going to approach states that we see in other parts of the world? Can't we have an open and honest debate? Will the Center Party help calm down its rhetoric?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e718	I'm simply fascinated by the fact that it's possible to stand at Stortinget's speaker's chair with such a show as we see from the representative Amundsen here now, when we in the Center Party have all the claims we have made when it comes to the fact that courts are actually being laid down, from sorren writers, judges, added to the courts and lawyers around. Jussprofessor Eivind Smith has said the same thing. And then we're going to be guilty of disinformation! Yeah, it's a nice rule technique to owe to others to run with this, while one actually runs with it itself, but we've been busy with public information here. It's obvious that some of the parts that are sitting here need some information. Either they believe this, believe what they say, or they don't understand. It's that simple. The centre party has been honorable all along and has had with us in our backs a whole bunch of sordid writers, who say that their court will be closed if the government's proposal is agreed. If you want to maintain all of these courts, you actually have to promise them that they didn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e725	In the case of serious and heavy child cases, there is a broad consensus that they should go to larger courts and courts, and that is precisely in the interests of increased legal certainty. I'm counting on the Center Party to agree. With regard to the general public, adults in need of the legal system should not also meet the same professional, high level of competence and legal certainty as children – no matter where they live in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e732	To the most extent! It is important to remind the representative of the Christian People's Party that there are no courts that judge, there are judges. There is no reason to believe that judges in smaller courts judge worse than judges in large courts. There is no evidence to say that, although I note that the government party in the debate has managed to claim it. What we're concerned about is having a high-quality, right-wing state that's located around our beautiful country in such a way that the inhabitants have an available legal state even if they live in Finnmark, or in More and Romesdal, which is my county. As I said before, the state of law we have today, I mean, I'm actually at the top of the world when it comes to legal certainty. We're sure of that with today's structure, with judges who are phenomenally well able to judge with high quality even if they're in a smaller court. It's the same with a pilot. A pilot doesn't have to be better off doing his job if he works in a big airline than if he works in a smaller one.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e739	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e744	This is a historic day for Norwegian courts. We have a judicial reform that strengthens legal certainty, provides more judges, provides less time for trial, is the biggest economic promise of the courts in recent times and, not least, applies the many good district courts out there to solve the problems that a number of professional bodies have pointed out to exist in the judicial sector. I have to start by linking some comments to the comments of the representative Jenny Klinge. It is said that there has been urgent treatment, and that things have gone too fast in the swings. This is simply an error. Many allegations have been made in the course of the investigation, giving rise to arguments as to why this case cannot be dealt with. We've been told that this should be a violation of constitutional practice. It's an obvious error, a misinterpretation of what's going on right now. Putting something else into it would represent an enormous intrusion into the Great Britain's political space of action, and it would be very serious. Other reasons we've seen are lack of investigation. There is also a common objection when you disagree. I can say with my heart that I don't think there is any other case of justice, perhaps alongside the police reform, which is as well and thoroughly investigated as the judicial reform is. The work of the Court of Justice Commission started in 2017. I think the investigation that came there had been stopped like a dangerous weapon in the airport control. It is a proper brick of well-worked craftsmanship, with great professional integrity. So it's been at the hearing, not just once, not just twice, but three times – two written hearings from the government and one oral hearing in Stortinget, where everyone who wanted to attend. This has been one of the justices that have been debated most in recent years. Although there is a very subtle impression that the matter has been dealt with urgently, it may be worth lifting your eyes a little bit and looking at other major issues such as this Stortinget has dealt with: the abolition of the jury we spent a month and a half on, GDPR, one of the biggest regulatory changes in Norwegian privacy law ever, obviously the largest ever, a month, the railway reform around two months, the work environment law one and a half months, asylum reconciliation two months. During this fall we negotiated a crisis package. We've dealt with a government budget of $1.5 billion. We've landed a long-term defense plan. We can if we want. I believe the problem is that someone does not want to deal with this matter. What we were able to avoid was a huge and unnecessary postponement of a case that would give up a trial period of six months. It was rejected by the majority of the Presidency of the Grand Duchy. That's good, because now the courts can actually get the reform they really need. The agreement between the civil parties is very good and results from many compromises. I would like to say again with my hand that this compromise shows just how one has listened to the various consultation recordings, listened to the voices that have been in the debate, and found a good balance. No one has got everything they've pointed to, but the result is going to stand for the future. We are legislating the practice that we have practiced, that the Stortinget gets the government's presentation of proposals for changes to the court structure. We ensure good manning. If I have read the setting correctly, there is a suggestion for this in the setting. We guarantee open courts where the courts have always been. We ensure legal mediation in all legal circles. We get fewer sorren writers, but we get more judges in the same second, up to 20 new full-time jurisprudence coming as a result of this change. It's very large and very good. Not least we have seen this reform in connection with the budget. It's easy to caricature as a horse trade, but it's actually the way a reform gets even better if you manage to put the right number of resources into it. We have. There will be more judges and more audio and video recordings, strengthening legal certainty. I'm dealing with the suggestions that the Right is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e765	The representative Peter Frölich has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e770	There is no doubt – the Labour Party and the Right are not some people in this case. And in order to take what the representative himself says in his intervention seriously, that things have been heard and distributed roughly up to several times – if we are to believe the representative’s post: Will the representative say from the Stockholm Chair that the proposals that were made today to changes to the Court Act §22 and 25 have been on the phone and have been distributed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e775	Variants of what we are adopting today have been at the hearing. It is not the first time in history that the Stortinget is inspired by proposals drawn up by the Ministry — which has been heard in some form — and has taken that variant and put it into a bill. It is also quite interesting that the model we have set up now follows, among other things. a proposal previously made by the Central Party in this Chamber. Then it was unproblematic, but when we propose it, it is suddenly deeply problematic – both constitutionally and procedurally. It's not quite in touch.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e780	Then I got confirmation that it hasn't been listening – a variant of it, yes, but this is a proposal that directly changes the law. There is a difference between that and what the Labour Party or the Center Party does when we ask the government to come back to Stortinget with one thing. But there are some sequence consequences with this court structure. Should this be accepted, it means that one must make changes to many other laws – the protection laws, the dispute laws, the criminal law, the special laws, etc. Does the Right and Government mean that one should implement the changes as they are in the proposal now in changes to the structure, before these amending laws are adopted, or can we expect to get back a case for the Storting with the whole structure and necessary changes to the law – a little in line with what we propose as a loose proposal today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e787	We have examined the need to make changes to dispute laws, other process laws, safeguards, etc., and we are convinced that this is not necessary. Fortunately, if doubts arise, there are simple adjustments to be made. Ultimately, this does not boil down to material problems with the law. In that case, it is conceptual use that needs to be updated, etc. It is manageable for both the government and this hall. Otherwise I notice the time, place and date of this great day, where the Workers' Party criticises direct law decisions in this hall. In it there are no parties without blame – and at the very least the Workers' Party. I am aware that it is preferable to go through the ministry and the consultation process, but there is no rule without exception. If you feel that a variant is sufficiently well established and properly justified on a professional basis, we can safely do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e795	It is said from many from the Right Party and the Progress Party around the country that now one of the laws is that the Storting should treat changes in the structure. Does the representative, who often points out in debates that he himself is a lawyer, see that there is a great difference between making a decision that a case should be brought before the Stortinget, versus the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV propose in document 8:36, which will ensure a treatment in the Stortinget? Is it correctly understood that ‘putting forward’ is the same thing as we do today — the structure is in the proposition, but we're not supposed to have it up to reconciliation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e800	If there is something both the representative Awake! and I know, it is that when the Stortinget is invited to say something about a matter, it is not very far from both debate and decision. It has been the fine political practice that has been going on for some decades, that the government – in order to be safe and feel the back of the changes you want to make – presents to the Storting the changes you want to make. It's an open invitation to the Storting to decide what you think about the adjustments. There have been largely no changes, but changes have also been made. This was done at the latest before the familial eight years with the Workers' Party – it was probably in 1999–2000. Then changes were made from Stortinget's side. A signal was sent back to the government that most legal changes were agreed on, but that was something you wanted to adjust to – a fantastic interaction between the government and the Stortinget. Now we're going to get it legislated, and it's going to be very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e805	The representative Frölich belongs to the Right Party, and both the Right Party and the Progress Party have joined a note in the Committee's position, which states: ‘The Committee points out that the proposal on the classification of courts and tribunals is essentially identical to the proposals of the Ministry sent at the hearing on 2 March 2020. It is proposed to reduce the number of courts of law of the day from 60 to 23, thereby reducing the number of courts of first instance accordingly. Furthermore, it is proposed to maintain those courts which are not the main courts of the courts of law.’.» I can imagine to the right with the representative Frülich whether it is the great urgency in the committee that they did not withdraw from that comment if they seriously believe that the Courts of First Instance should not be laid down, because in this clear comment from the whole committee it is quite clear that courts should actually be laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e815	This is a game of words and technical terms. I think we're going to come back to the very basic question: what is a court for you and me and all of us? For me, it's not crucial whether you define a court as a court or whether a court necessarily has a scapegoat or not. For me, a court is open doors, activity, witnesses, relatives, defendants who are brought in and out, lawyers who roam around – that there is activity in the individual court. That's what matters. The reason we've had a debate about court closure is that there's no doubt left an impression in very many of us that now it's the hook on the door and at the end of the local court. That's a leftover impression that we can't leave behind, because it's wrong. That's wrong. When spring comes, it'll still be wriggling activity. We can go on tour together to see the outcome of this good reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e822	I thought it was quite fine before, as the same representative Frølich clearly stated that there was a need to set aside some things. It was a kind of statement that I could relate to as an opponent of opinion. That's why it's also harder to relate to what's now about rhetoric, where what's actually a court settlement is made into something completely different. I don't disagree with the claim that the courthouse should be preserved, but the question is, What is a court, and what is simply a right of way and a right of change? Then I want to refer to the representative Frølich wrote once before. It was that the courts should not become district policies, and he says: ‘The method they use to make these decisions is as simple as it is ingenious: they listen. To the parties, to the experts and to the witnesses. So they think carefully before they conclude. Norwegian politicians might be able to learn a bit from the judges?’ Now I wonder if the Right Party and the Government Party could not have learned a little bit and gone a few extra rounds before they made as big changes as they are now, changes that have been introduced in practice in the last few years from the government party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e836	If we put the definition of closures that the opposition is operating on, I'm getting very right. Then I was very farsighted when I said that there was a need for closure – the new Snåsamann, I was going to say Bergensmann, but it doesn't sound as cool. It would have been a very correct prediction that it is going to be laid down in courts. I was wrong, because there were no major closures. That is the reality. I will be quite honest that after reading the professional recommendations, I also supported closures from courts. In a reform, you can't get everything. You can't get everything! I believe that the most important thing about this reform is the elements that go on in large trade unions, which go on quicker procedures, which go on rotating matters. But it wasn't time for court closures. We just have to realize that. And it won't be the time for it in the future, because now we're very clear that this is our structure, this is our solution, and everything in all, I think it'll be very, very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e845	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e850	The Labour Party wants modern and decentralised courts. We have good courts in Norway, and ever since the Court Commission was reduced in 2017, there has been a lot of debate in the newspapers between the parties about what is best for the courts in the future. There's a lot of commitment in the matter, and I'll start by saying that I have a lot of respect for the fact that there's different views about what's the best solution. The Labour Party was the first party that clearly said, when the Court's proposal was presented, that it was not appropriate for us to go for a solution where two out of three District Courts are physically laid down. Right - as we heard instead - we have known as a party that is interested in physical closures. Peter Frölich, among other things, said: to the nations in 2019 that there are artificially many courts in Norway and that there is a danger of legal certainty for people in view of the small cases. After many debates on this topic, I still have the benefit of obtaining factual evidence to substantiate a claim that the quality of smaller courts is linked to structure. What the government is presenting to the Storting today is a formal termination of 44 independent District Courts. They are converted into branches or courts, which it is now called, without a proper lease. They are then converted into these courts. That's where the difference lies. It's a abolition of independent property rights, they're made into something else. The Labour Party is not a party that is neither against all reforms nor against renewal, but it is allowed to use your head and have several thoughts in your head at the same time. We've gained some experience in conciliation and right-wing reforms. We still have decisions in Stortinget that all remaining police departments would be strengthened after the police reform. It doesn't matter. We have a government that treats decisions in Stortinget as if it were optional to follow them up. I myself said a few years ago on behalf of the Labour Party, when the Commission debate began, that we did not refuse to look at major legal circles. A responsible party likes to do that, and we said we would look at whether there were other possibilities first, because we think that one should centralize only one thing, but decentralize it one might. And there were other possibilities. We sit down, got a lot of good input from several competent court leaders in Norway and from lawyers, who pointed out open possibilities in today's legislation both for reinforcements and to ensure more case-sharing, jurisdiction-sharing and flexibility in the law, without structural changes. Therefore, the joy and surprise were also a little big in spring when the Progress Party agreed with the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV in saying no to the structural reform of the government. The joy would unfortunately be very short-lived. Less than five months it took before the Progress Party turned its back on the whole thing. Today, Frölich can call it pluralism and details, but the Storting has to care about details, because there are not so many others who do. We need to look at what's in the setting, and there's nothing in the setting today that outlines what's being said out now, that a lawmakers that the Storting should treat and decide the court structure. That is the reality of proposal No. 2 in Document 8:36 S for 2019-2020, which could have taken care of it. We have also not proposed the legal structure of voting today, which is mentioned in the proposition. As we propose in Document 8:36 S for 2019-2020, we should have voted on it. But the Labour Party, the Center Party and the SV make sure of it. We suggest today that we keep all the independent things and changes because we think there are other ways to do this. We have received many feedback, even when we had a hearing on the matter, that it is quite possible. So it's perfectly legitimate to disagree with it. You might think that doing what the government is proposing can be a little more effective. What would most likely be the most effective would be having one court in Norway. But it's not Labour Party policy. We believe that one should also consider decentralised solutions, and that the courts should be independent and nationwide. Therefore, we would like to see the proposals we are making today, including proposals to ask the government to look at Section 55 of the Court Act, if we can look at other ways to meet some of the correct criticisms that the Court Commission has presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e869	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e874	I agree with the representative Vågslid that we in Stortinget must be embarrassing about and exactly about the details. In the run-up to the debate today, a letter has been sent to both the Ministry of Justice, the Presidency and the Committee – it is otherwise also distributed to the rest of the Stortinge Party groups – claiming that this proposal violates constitutional customary law. It's a very, very serious claim. One thing is that it will postpone the matter, but the other is that it lays down a rule that means that the room for action in this room is restricted. Then you have to be extremely sure about it. I would like to hear from the representative Awake!: What are the conditions under which the Workers' Party understands what is constitutional customary? And what practice underpins its existence in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e881	Thank you for the question. The letter we sent to the presidency was absolutely necessary for us to send. As Klinge also pointed out, there are several people who have made contact – most recently today – that the two suggestions I asked Frölich for instead, to the laws of the courts §§22 and 25, they do not know the consequences of. It is also a question we ask of the presidency, whether they can assess whether this is in line with the custom. As the proposals that have been made are formulated, it can easily be thought that a lower threshold for treatment compared to what has been used. With that, I would like to point out a question that the case-speaker Jenny Klinge sent to one of the many government councils of the Progress Party, Jøran Kallmyr, where he also answered this question. Minor changes may come to Stortinget and may be mentioned in a budget proposal. Major changes have been confirmed by several to be dealt with on their own. What we have on the table today is that for the future, the government will be able to make sure that it decides for itself the changes, and that the cases are brought before the Storting. That's the reason for the letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e889	The letter makes it clear that this proposal violates constitutional practice. There's a 'no ifs, no buts' -- there's a clear claim that there's a constitutional custom, and I think we've all seen a fairly similar letter from a bunch of sore writers who claim the same thing. My question is still, I repeat it, and this we must have an answer to, because it is quite central: exactly what conditions does the Workers' Party think must be fulfilled in order for a constitutional practice to exist in this matter? If we don't get an answer to that question, it will hang in the air towards voting as well. I think it is quite essential that a state-supporting party give answers to what they put into terms that they spread around, pass on and try to stop a perfectly legitimate debate and medical decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e896	After all, Peter Frølich and Right are the ones who make sure that this matter is hanging in the air. That is the background for the letter and the background for the question I asked the representative before today. It is said by the Minister of Justice in his own department in the proposition that proposals for amendment to the Law of the Court of Justice §22 and 25 require a broader basis of decision before the Stortinget takes its decision. I expected that the Right of the Storing would stick to it. They choose not to do that and make direct legislative proposals in what we call the last hour, because this has not been part of the hearing committee. And more than that, the representative refers to, who contacts us, and is concerned about what this actually means. I urge the representative to also read the answer that former Minister of Justice Jøran Kallmyr sent to Jenny Klinge on a question about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e901	The right and the other government parties on Stortinget have dealt with the debate and the knowledge that exists on these issues. When the government handed the case over to the Stortinget, the Court of Justice did not propose Part 2, another brick in this case of judicial reform, but it does contain a very strong and good mention of just these questions, and having seen those investigations, I am not in doubt that the law we are now making, the law of the practice that has existed, makes sense. But I record that we have not received an answer on what terms the Workers' Party uses when they claim that this violates the constitutional custom. It looks like they've jumped on a loose claim, a totally incorrect and unfounded claim from a pinch of sorrenprinters. That's interesting in itself. But it must be a long and coherent practice that the Storting has followed, in the sense that they follow a rule of constitutional rank. It has not happened in this case – not at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e906	I record that there were no more questions, but I want to answer them anyway, because it is easy that in today's debate we deal with two issues. One is the proposal from the Central Party, which is supported by the Labour Party and the SV, and it would have been much smarter for the representative, rather he should have voted for it, because we are proposing that the Storting should deal with the structure of the courts in politics in the Stortinget. It's the fight here. I think that the matter should be resolved and voted on, so there are an unimaginable number of proposals for voting today. I respect the fact that the Right disagrees with it, but does not travel all over the country and claims that one now makes sure that the Storting will adopt a court structure – because that is not what we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e911	I feel that the representative is something more – let's say – balanced in his mention of the reform than the Central Party is necessarily. It's a little bit more balance, although the Workers' Party is obviously opposed, at least according to them. If I were to take a personal thought around it, I have really been pretty sure that the Workers' Party would stand in this reform, be part of it, they would be in government and the political situation would have been different. But what I'm experiencing is that the Workers' Party is jumping for the Center Party every time it's – punctuated – district policy out and out. In this sense, the old eagle of Norwegian politics has become a sparrow. My question is quite simply: does the representative of Wagslid think that there are any courts that are being closed, and will most people notice changes in the reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e918	Now the representative of Amundsen was quite clever, because he asked me in a precise way if I think that some legal places are being laid down. No, the representative Klinge confirmed it too – it’s not the courts that we claim to be laid down, it’s the independent courts. How hard can it be to bring it with you? So, when the Progress Party wants to analyze rhetoric, I could say a lot about it. It may seem that the representative from the Progress Party has completely lost the memory, because it is not many months since Amundsen and the signatures were quite a few: this is an unnecessary reform. We don't have to do it this way. In 2020, one should also be able to use digitisation and technological opportunities in a completely different way from what the government seems to be interested in. So yes, I agree with that: no legal places are being laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e927	It's a very interesting clarification. If you think that no courts are closed, and at the same time you guarantee that in the courts you have what we call local courts, most people, that means that people really don't want to notice any difference. On the contrary, there will be an improvement in terms of better legal certainty, greater professional environments and fewer resources spent on bureaucracy, which the Centre often uses to be occupied, at least according to their own government budget. What is the negative effect of this reform on people most? How can it be thought that this reform will harm people out there if a) agree that all courts are maintained, and b) ensure staffing, and it is adopted today? How, then, can you make that kind of claim?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e934	There are several reasons for this. After eight years with the Right in government, there is no reason to think that a verbal proposal in the Stortinget that courts with fewer than four permanent judges should retain the competence attached to the core business is the guarantee. There are a lot of unresolved questions here -- not to mention the land change rights, which the Progress Party doesn't seem to be busy at all. So we're not a few. This is not a guarantee. I still think there are ghosts about the future of the things on the Notodden, in the White Sea and other places that are now being transformed into branches. I think it's sin, quite honest. We were some about this in ours, the representative Amundsen and I, that it was an unnecessary reform. I want to quote Amundsen – or not quote, maybe, but I can name what he himself said, and that was that the legal certainty in Norway was good, and that there was no reason to make the changes that the government is making.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e941	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e946	It is true that the Progress Party in our efforts to stop several parallel processes that were about changing the court structure in Norway. It was because if the Biggest thing is to be involved – and the Biggest thing is to be – there is an overall approach that is important. There were processes going on in Rome, there were processes going on in Eastfold, there were several processes going on, as well as waiting for a proposition from the government. Then it was quite natural for the Progress Party to say: Stop a hall – we will see the whole before we can go well for these changes. We've done that now. Now we have negotiated and discussed a solution with the government parties that I believe is the best of both worlds. We achieve what is the foundation and fundamental to the reform. It's about legal certainty for most people, it's about using resources on the core business, not on bureaucracy. But at the same time, you have to make sure that most people out there can be sure that they have a local court, that they have the same services that are available today. It is absolutely fundamental for the Progress Party, and it was through what we came up with a solution with the government parties. Now I'm very happy with that reform, I'm 100 pst. behind it. I believe that this is a reform for the good of the country. Nor is it correct, what is claimed, that it is a verbal proposal, a request decision, which is not good enough to secure these judgments in the small courts. It would be very dangerous for the government, which, after all, is a minority government, if you were to choose to go that way and not follow the will of the Greatness in that way. I feel sure that the government and the Minister of Justice will take care of that. This is an agreement between the Advance Party and the government parties, and we're standing 100 pst. behind it. What is worse is that the debate that has taken place has helped to make demonstrable mistakes, precisely because of the fact that several people have been involved in it. The center party is talking about the abolition of district courts. Yes, that's right if you're dealing with the concept correctly. But the understanding out there, and the Center Party has been running out of space in the local media, is that the local court should disappear. It's actually wrong. We guarantee the local courts today. We guarantee that these services will be close to most people. In fact, we guarantee that they will be strengthened, that they can be built up, with greater scope of things. We guarantee the courts, and we make sure that people have local courts close by. It's a perfect combination of legal certainty, larger trade unions, more efficient operation and good district policy, that takes good care of people out there. I think, to be absolutely honest, that the Central Party and the Labour Party too have realised, but they cannot stop criticising the reform. I think the Workers' Party is really a supporter of it, but they're so busy running for the Center Party because they're stealing from them, they're in this room today and they're opposed to the reform. In a normal situation, this would be widely adopted in Stortinget. So I will draw attention to some recommendations for adjustments to what is proposed by the government. We in the Progress Party have been concerned that we in Finnmark are also basing the same good, rational arguments for ensuring legal certainty. That's why we have a better division between the legal circles there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e959	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e965	The working party does not depend on anyone. We were the first party that, on the Court's proposal, clearly said that it was not appropriate for us to go for solutions that put down two out of three District Courts in Norway. But as I mentioned, in the spring we were some, the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Center Party and the SV, saying no to the government's structural proposal. Then Amundsen thought it was unnecessary to change the legal systems, that the financial savings were insignificant. Amundsen also stated that there was no adequate basis for implementing such a comprehensive reform. Amundsen also thought, as I do, that the legal certainty of Norwegian citizens was very well taken care of in today's legislation. He went on to say that there was no signal indicating that the districts today did not take care of the legal security of the citizens in a good enough way. Well said. I'm very much in agreement with that. In the last four–five months, has the representative lost confidence in the courts he trusted in ours? And what signal did Amundsen get that he was going to make such a big envelope in such a case?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e972	I very much agree with what I meant in ours – I mean the exact same thing today, and that also means my party. The basic thing to understand is that this is a different reform from what was proposed by the Court of Justice, precisely because we have that district policy perspective, and precisely because no physical local courts are to be laid down. For that very reason, there is a completely different solution than the court commission originally had in mind. In terms of savings: Well, the goal here is not to save money. We can give more priority to the core business, but in the same state budget that is part of this consensus, we provide even more money to the courts, including. to sound and image, which is an important part of the future solutions. Saving is not the fundamental thing here. But I also agree with what I said in ours that we have some of the best courts in the world. Norwegian legal certainty is good, and I still stand for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e981	I'm glad to hear that. What's a little bit of a shame is that Amundsen is wrong, because the agreement we had in May was not right to the court's proposal. The court commission's proposal was welcome in the autumn of 2019 or something like that. In our government and Monica Mæland, the Minister of Justice, a proposal – on a hearing – that is almost identical to what is in the proposition today. That's what we said no, Amundsen. That's what I thought was unnecessary. I therefore believe that the representative must go back and read a little more carefully what he himself was on. The Progress Party now says in many newspapers that they are happy to have a legal handling of the court structure of the Stortinget. You don't get it for sure, given the suggestions one's behind today. In the light of what they have said and said about the importance of ensuring treatment in the Grand Duchy in such cases, the party will today vote in favour of proposal No. 2 – in Document 8:36 S, for 2019-2020 – from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, who would have secured it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e988	We are well placed in the proposals that are in the position, that we are with the Right and that are going to have a majority today, fortunately. Once again, to these slightly creative descriptions of what happened in ours: so, as I said in my post, there were several different processes going on at the same time. It's not lucky. If you're going to invite Stortinget to have some sense of Norwegian court structure, we have to do it in a whole way. It was my business. That was my party's concern in this matter, also because there were concrete proposals on the abolition of not only District Courts, but of courts. Then I feel that you're busy describing the reform in a way that I don't know about, or that my party doesn't recognize. This is a good reform, it will stand, and it will stand for decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e997	I just want to ask the same question that I started with, once again, because it was a little bit misunderstood here. Amundsen believed that the agreement we had entered into in the spring was about the court commission. She did not. The proposal that was sent by the Minister of Justice in ours is almost identical to what we have in the Chamber today. To that proposal, the representative Amundsen said that it was unnecessary, that there was no basis for putting into action the reform, which is identical to that which Amundsen is behind today. When Amundsen answered me instead that he stood by what he said then, "Do you want to repeat it again, so that you are absolutely sure?" Because that means that you're not for the reform that's in the proposition here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1002	The President reminds the representative that the speech should be addressed to the President and not to the co-representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1007	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1012	It is interesting to be told by the representative Awake! what my opinion is. I stand a hundred percent on that reform. I mean it's a proper reform, and I meant it when I was the Council of State. I also accepted the position that came from the court commission. But it is not the same reform that was being consulted. Because what we've managed to achieve, as security, here in this Chamber, which is being adopted today, and which is a prerequisite for the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party, is precisely that we ensure that each and every court place is maintained, by making some demands, which are inside the setting. They are crucial on our part, because there will be concrete preconditions for the maintenance of the structure and for each place of justice to remain. That is why this is a different reform and reform much more in line with the main desire of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1019	We have actually led three different reform proposals in this matter. We have it from the Commission, we have the proposition from the government, and then we have the equation. The government and the Progress Party will then claim that the reform is thoroughly distributed on the basis of these first two rounds, and that the reconciliation is quite similar to the proposition. But then you have told Amundsen several times before that the Progress Party could not accept the proposal in the proposition – there had to be significant changes in order for them to be able to participate in it. Then I think it's important now to figure out what Amundsen thinks is all the significant changes in the reconciliation compared to the proposition. If these changes are really significant, as I suppose Amundsen will mean, I'll ask why he doesn't want a proper examination of these new proposals, so that you get a proper treatment and a case back from the government to the Justice Committee and the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1024	As many people have been involved before today, this matter has been thoroughly investigated. It has been consulted for several rounds, and a Commission has been set up that has assessed the need for reform and made its recommendations. We've had our own hearing. This case is well founded with investigation and with all the prerequisites. So in all cases there are some adjustments that have to be made if you are to have a consensus in Stortinget. There is nothing special in this case. But from our point of view, it was imperative that we should be able to stand behind it. Then I refer you to proposal No. 4, where it says: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all courts remain and are staffed. In the case of courts which currently have four permanent jurisprudences or less, the level of the current number of annual works relating to the core activity shall be maintained.» It is a concrete formulation, an expectation that the government will deliver, and it is essential for the Progress Party to support the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1034	It is great that the representative Amundsen referred to this, because I should actually admit in my next post. Instead, I said that it was not a proposal for a crew, I just said that there were vague wordings. But I discovered that it was quite right, it was only vague suggestions. I made a mistake there, and I'll fix it now. What I'm wondering about Amundsen being able to say a little bit more about is whether the Stortinget will be able to deal with major changes in the judiciary and in the judicial structure in the future, in line with what former Justice Minister Kalldmyr said in reply to me when I specifically asked about this. What is the proposal for a new section 22 today is reason to question the question mark. I've come to understand that there are only minor adjustments to the right circuits, i.e. a sphere of justice that could be made within that section. If it is intended to be whole courts or courts, there is in that case a degradation of the possibilities of the Stortinget to say something about such a kind of change in the future – if the proposal for Section 22 is adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1042	It is really just to refer to the answer from the Minister of Justice to the challenges that both the Central Party and the Labour Party have presented in writing by letter from the Committee. There you make it very clear to the council that there will be a case for Stortinget. Then the Storting may choose to reject that case, and that is when the Storting decides and takes the decision. While there is also a codification of what has been practice, it is good to put in place that codification, all the time since the Central Party – not least in the media – has contributed to creating another impression, namely that the Court of Justice is to lay down a lot of courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1049	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1054	It's interesting to hear this debate. It now enters into a series of premises and details around the process, which may be very interesting for members of the Justice Committee and particularly interested here, but which may not show the big picture. I think this has been very well lit by colleagues from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, who have explained our perspectives in a very precise and good way. I should rather take a slightly different starting point for that discussion in the article here. Now, when we are going to make major reforms in one of the institutions of the rule of law, we need to establish a certain status. What does the Norwegian court state look like, really? Well, we'll probably agree in this room that it's pretty good. There is low crime in Norway, and there are very few in Norwegian prisons. We also feel that the institutions of the rule of law have great confidence in the population – the police have confidence, the courts have largely good confidence, and that is also trust in the way we design our prisons. Of course, there are also challenges in these areas, but we are not going to discuss that today. We'll discuss that again and again. The main challenge for the institutions of the rule of law may not be that they are inefficient, small or local, as this debate has shown. The main challenge is probably that they are underfunded and have been underfunded for many years. I think it is important to discuss the court structure, that we also see it in the context of both the police reform and the changes that have been introduced in recent years on the prison side – the police reform, which is about a significant centralisation of our police resources, and a prison reform that has meant the closure of a number of local prisons. We must then ask questions as to whether the state of law in Norway is strengthening itself by putting down police stations, small town halls and small local prisons. What does the government really want to achieve in the whole pattern we see here? Are all these changes meant to increase legal certainty in Norway, to improve human rights? Do we prevent crime by putting down police stations, local prisons and local warehouses? Are we preventing a negative trend in violence in close relationships and rape? And does that increase trust? I do not agree with any of these three areas to see that the government is doing well enough to justify these changes on the basis of a comprehensive assessment of how we want the rule of law in Norway to be further developed. There is a lack of a visionary perspective beyond rationalisation and efficiency considerations. I think that's one of the main reasons why the reform we're talking about today, about the courts, also raises so much local resistance. The justification is often given for each sector. We're discussing the police sector on our own. We discuss the courts and prisons for ourselves. We can come up with good rational reasons for one and the other, but the whole thing gets bad when we don't see this in a context. SV believes that there is a significant quality for Norway, also for Norwegian cities and towns, that there are local police present where people live, that there are local warehouses that can offer local jobs, and that make people living in the countryside know those who work there, and that there are small local prisons that make people close to this. It creates well-being and security. I definitely believe that that kind of proximity to the institutions of the rule of law is crime prevention and helps to strengthen confidence in the rule of law. And I'm definitely saying that the centralizer we've seen around all three of these areas is a big risk that we're destroying the trust that people have in these institutions. We see that there are major changes in the crime scene in the Western world, including in Norway. The challenge of the big picture will be to design a legal state and an architecture for the Norwegian legal state that is able to handle this in a good way. Then we need a visionary perspective for this, which goes beyond the economic and the efficiency. With that, I certainly believe that in this case the proposal presented by the Central Party and SV is the only right way to achieve these objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1077	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1082	Several instances have pointed out that children need to be met by a system that has knowledge and interest in the specific challenges that issues related to children raise, and that the need for competence is particularly evident in matters relating to choice, abuse, intoxication or serious mental health problems. The Barneombodet, the Stine Sofies Foundation, the County Council and the Norwegian Human Rights Institute have stated in their hearing that children must have a good and equivalent system to ensure that their rights, needs and interests are taken care of in the courts. The Barneombode highlights, inter alia: that such cases are often of serious interventional decisions against individuals, where the competence of the judge is central to ensuring that the solution is in the best interests of the child. Does SV think that these central agencies are wrong when they highlight the need for a wider professional environment in the district courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1091	I am very pleased that the representative Melvær is addressing this. She is aware that I have been concerned with these questions for several years, and we share the hundred percent consideration that we need to create a legal state that is able to meet the new need we see now, the new wave, almost, of reports of abuse against children and also violence in close relations. I definitely believe that we need to strengthen the institutions of the rule of law all the way, both the police's investigation capacity for such cases and the court's ability to handle this properly. There is no evidence that centralisation of these institutions will necessarily improve legal certainty for children. We think it will also be able to enforce it very well by caring for it locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1106	Stine Sofies Foundation has among others Reportedly, they regularly receive feedback from families who feel that judges lack child-disciplinary and psychological competence, that judges do not always fully understand the harm and consequences of the child’s care situation, and that the child is not heard or understood to a large extent. The Foundation also emphasises the importance of trust in the Court that the judge is experienced to have sufficient competence to make decisions about the future of children. The Foundation, like NIM, believes that the concern for a wider child-care environment should be given a strong emphasis in the choice of solution for court-martial structure. Does SV insist that today's structure, with the current legal framework, is the best solution for ensuring the courts adequate flexibility, professional environment and competence in children's matters, when the final bodies so clearly state that this is not true?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1113	I guess I don't really hear any particular difference between the first and the second question here. There is complete agreement between us that the courts should of course have strong, and would like to have stronger, pedagogical competence. I agree with 100 percent. I see no reason why this cannot be done with a local court structure. If a local court gets caught in a very difficult and demanding case dealing with children, there is nothing wrong with it being able to retrieve that competence from the outside. I think this could definitely be done. Another model will also be challenging. For example, when you collect children's stuff in just a few places, it could lead to travel, accommodation, etc., and it might also help to ensure that children's ability to explain themselves will be somewhat closed in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1120	Now we hear that there are many things that remain in line, while there are free capacity other places. Now the Christian People's Party wants to be involved in the stay of the districts, matters are to be settled near where people live, the crew is to be maintained, and we are to strengthen our competence. Then I allow myself to point out a question to the representative from SV: Is it more important to keep the structure of the day than to ensure that the judging activity is strengthened? Because with our proposal it may be about approx. Twenty referee positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1125	The main challenge to the courts in Norway is not necessarily that they are not effective but that they are underfunded. So to keep a local court structure, for which we three parties go in, it obviously has to follow with money to this, so that their capacity will increase. That's really my short answer to that. We can't use queues one place as an argument to rationalize this structure. There are a number of good arguments, which have been explained today, that we want to keep the local structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1131	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1136	Norwegian courts are consistently good and have high confidence, and so we want it to be in the future. Today, we are adopting a new and modern court structure. There is a reform for increased legal certainty throughout the country by ensuring good competence in the courts throughout the country and skills jobs throughout the country. All of today's courts, including all land change rights, are maintained, and district courts shall have at least the same staff as they do today. To further strengthen legal certainty and reduce the length of proceedings, we set up more than 50 new judicial positions. This is the focus of the time on legal certainty and important competence jobs in the districts. Although the central party seems to think it's not going to change anything, that everything was 'like before', it won't be like before when the assumptions have changed. If you don't equip the institutions of society for the future, they'll only be confused, because we have some challenges to solve for the future: Today’s court structure lacks the possibility of moderate specialisation, it is too long to deal with, and it does not make optimal use of resources. It is difficult to recruit judges in small District Courts, and cases are often distributed unevenly between city and country. Cases are decided differently from one court to another. The smallest courts are vulnerable to disease and incapacity. If we are to ensure good legal certainty across the country, we must therefore ensure good competence and strong professional environments, the possibility of specialisation, increased digitisation, shorter processing time and good use of resources in the courts of both the city and the countryside. Several courts are now being brought together in larger courts, so that judges can handle cases in several cases within their jurisdiction. Thus, matters can be distributed more equally between the department stores within the same circle. This will contribute to increased activity in the district courts and even better conditions for individual courts and neighbouring positions of competence. This is good district policy — rather than allowing district courts to continue operating as today, with available capacity and increasing recruitment problems. Judicial circles are merged, but all courts, including all succession rights, shall pass. No courts shall be closed. And for the Left, it has been essential that we ensure good competence in the courts and competence jobs throughout the country, that the staffing of district courts is at least maintained as today, and that we have political governance with possible future changes in the court structure. This could not be changed by administrative decisions. That is why we are now explicitly deciding that all courts should pass. All courts shall have staff to ensure that the public is properly provided with a court of law. For this reason, it is explicitly decided today that for those courts which currently have four permanent judicial posts or less, the level of the current number of annual works relating to the core business should be maintained. That is why we are legislating today's political practice with the government presenting the Storting with any future changes in the structure. This is important in order to safeguard the benefits of a geographically dispersed structure. The local presence of the courts throughout the country is important for legal certainty, and it is not least a pre-requisite of the work of the law on land change, which is even more localized. The size of our decisions today provides a tight framework for the follow-up of the Court of Justice. I note that some people say that they don't believe Storting's decision will change the follow-up of the court administration. It's not just to show a lack of trust in the court administration, but also in government and big business. There is no reason to doubt the government parties and the willingness of the Progress Party to follow up the crew requirement. This will include: in a note where the Court of Justice is asked to re-examine undisposed positions at the Land Change Court in Wågå, so that the positions are re-manned. I record that the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV are trying to produce a merger of the courts as a confiscation of the courts, and that the term ‘court’ means the branch office. It does not lead to correctness and is directly misleading. There is information that unfortunately has created a lot of unrest and noise across the country. The changes in the legal structure adopted today mean that all courts in a jurisdiction are equivalent and there shall not be a head office with any branch office. There shall be equivalent courts to resolve the tasks together within their jurisdiction, which use their competences and resources collectively for increased legal certainty. The agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party also involves a change of legal systems in Finnmark. I would like to stress that this will not weaken the Sami dimension of the court. On the contrary, the aim is to strengthen the Sami dimension and the environment of competence associated with it. The left supports the minority comments and minority suggestions made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1166	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1171	If I say that the confidence that a Right-led government will be a counter-power against centralization is low, I think it is a claim in which many in the representative Skkelstad's own party will recognize themselves. By means of the decisions in this case, the parties to the Government have provided themselves with room for action in order to amend or abolish courts without the adoption of the amendment by the Stortinget. You've already begun, breaking up the inner Finnmark thingright. The Labour Party, together with the SV and the Center Party, wants the Stortinget to have the final word in this kind of case, but there is uncertainty here in many places in the country, despite what the government parties say here in the Chamber. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the Left can guarantee, if today's majority continues in the next period, that no courts or district courts will be closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1176	As I said from the other chair just a few moments ago – and I was reasonably clear: if this is to happen, it has to be in this room, and the left's place is that we want to maintain the skills jobs that are out in the districts. I must be allowed to make some comments on the side of it, when a representative from the Workers' Party, who has in many ways thought system states at all times, tries to say that there are some others who want to centralize. I have noticed quite clearly throughout my time, both in politics and before, at least one thing about the Workers' Party, that there is one party that has never had any problem with centralizing, systematizing and glorifying the system state, that is exactly that party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1183	The last claim is a longer debate and a rather bold claim from a party that has been sitting in a Right-led government for the last seven years. The representative, Mr Skelstad, now stated that he felt that the type of change would be ‘in’ this room. That is probably the point, that when the government parties today propose that the Grand Duchy adopt changes in the court structure, and for example. The termination of courts or tribunals must be submitted to the Stortinget, which may mean that information is given on the termination of a court or tribunal, for example. in a budget proposal — without its own cause, without its own debate, without its own decisions in the Storting. The Labour Party believes that in this case, the Stortinget must finally have the last word, that there must be a separate case, procedure and decision in the Stortinget. The question of the Left and the other government parties is simply why it is so important for the government parties to avoid the Storting treating changes or the closure of courts as a matter of its own, and that it is the Stortinget, not the Government, that makes the final decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1190	If the representative Henriksen misinterpreted my tranny from the pulpit, I would say that it should be 'inward', of course means that it should be dealt with in this Chamber. Of course, if he wants to misunderstand it, it is so far also legitimate, but it is clear that we are on a different track than we have many times been under what the representative did not answer all the world, considering how you think system. From our government, we also want to have debates on it, not just that it is presented as if you think this is just a receipt office. We want a real debate, and we have also had it here – a long, long process around the whole structure. It has been complementary, back again, and sometimes adjustments have also been made, as has been the case before in the debate. I think it has been a good and thorough analysis of the whole matter we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1195	There are many who disagree that all the proposals have been well-explained, for example. The Association of Judges, which regrets the fact that, in the final phase of the proceedings, a new proposal for a place of justice for Finnmark is now being presented, which has neither been investigated nor sent to the hearing, just to take one example. It was referred from the Judiciary's Association that sent a letter today. Now I have no problem understanding trundish – perhaps the second most beautiful dialect in Norway – but the Labour Party has proposed that courts cannot be closed without political treatment in the UK. When the representative, Mr Skelstad, says that they would like to have debate and debate on the Biggest of such changes, we interpret it very positively, because what the government has proposed is that it should be submitted to the Stortinget, that is. as part of another case – that it is disclosed as part of a budget proposal without necessarily having to be a matter of its own, debate or decision in the Storting on some potentially significant changes. So the last question to the representative of Skkelstad is really just whether he believes that there is a difference between dealing with a matter in the Stortinget and presenting a case to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1202	I thank you for thinking that my tranny sounds good. I've spent many years in North Norway, so I understand very well what you're saying – just to mention it. I was pretty clear from my language suit on what I meant and said instead, so I don't need to repeat it. I record that for some of us, in fact, the most important thing is to have a quick procedure for those in the districts, and also to keep the skills jobs. We do that with today's decision. It may seem that the representative Henriksen disagrees, because he believes it is really more important that many of the courts go idle. We believe that it fills up with problems is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1209	The President reminds us that she is 'unhappy' when the speech is addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1214	The representative of Skelstad said that there is no reason to doubt the requirement for crew included in the proposal. I want Skjelstad to explain the proposal for a decision to me, for proposal No. 4 sounds like: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all courts remain and are staffed. In the case of courts which currently have four permanent jurisprudences or less, the level of the current number of annual works relating to the core activity shall be maintained.» I have some time left, so before Skelstad can start to answer, I want to right if this is a guaranteed minimum crew. Is it defined what's going to be minimum here, based on that formulation, and how binding is it for the government in the future with that starting point, in the formulation that I read?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1224	I think the obligations are clear. But that's how I get a little surprised at the representative Klinge, who might not focus as much on the core business as some of us do – what you're actually going to do in the different courts. It is of paramount importance, at least for me and my party, that we also have legal certainty throughout Norway, and not only in parts of the country. That is why it was important to ensure this kind of competence, and I also hoped that the Centre Party would be interested in it. But it may seem that you are more concerned with the names of the houses, and not necessarily the contents.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1231	I can assure the representative from the Left that the Central Party is going beyond wanting to secure what is the crew, we want to add an extra judge to the one-time court office, in addition to the judges, in order to secure the smallest courts. What was mentioned instead, which I would like to ask about now, is the administration of the Court and their follow-up to the case, because in an internal letter sent out by the DA to its courts earlier today, just before this debate, it is – for them, driving and interpreting what we are doing – that ‘there must be activities in all places where there are courts in the first instance today’. It writes DA. Then they write, "Judges and case handlers keep their office." Is it DA that has a lot to do when they don't realize that these courts are still going to be courts – or what is the reason why they use the word "office" when interpreting these closed courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1240	I don't know what's moving in every single head in that way, but I think the decision that's here today is very clear, and I don't have to spend any more time on it. I also believe that the representative, Mrs Klinge, really fully agrees with what it says. What the Court of Justice has to believe about the decision today may be up to them, but what is being done today is at least the decision that remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1245	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1250	Today, the Christian People's Party is committed to contributing to the adoption of a new and modern court structure. The objective is to increase legal certainty across the country by ensuring good competence and important work of competence in the Court of Justice. Norwegian courts have high confidence, but today's complex societies present new challenges. The courts must be given the possibility of moderate specialisation and an organisation which provides for shorter processing times and efficient use of resources. This has been addressed by both the Committee of the General Court, the Court of Justice, the National Audit Office and a number of professional bodies. For the Christian People's Party, child protection matters in particular are very important, which requires special competence. Without a new court structure, many small courts will have too few cases to deal with. In its analysis, the Court Commission has shown that cases before Norwegian courts are becoming increasingly demanding, and that there is therefore a professional need to increase specialisation in areas other than child protection. The Riksrevision's findings are one of the main reasons for a new court structure. Free capacity is not used, and it is difficult for the courts to recruit new judges. The use of mediation varies widely from one court to another, and the smaller courts cannot offer mediation to the same extent as the larger ones. This leads to a lower level of provision of justice for those living in areas with a more widespread population, as well as a more problematic recruitment than for those with a larger population. Do the citizens have the same quality, no matter where they live in the country? On the other hand, the National Audit Office and the Court of Justice have demonstrated that large courts often have large cases and long queues. For the Judiciary Association, it is also crucial to be able to strengthen professional environments in the courts. Judicial proceedings are often complex today, and judges are meeting an increasing requirement of competence, which needs to be met. Conditions need to be improved to facilitate the development of competences. The National Audit Assessment on Efficiency from 2019 shows, for example. that five District Courts could decide 50 pst. several issues with the resources available, while ten smaller rights of way could be decided between 10 and 20 pst. more things. A systematic transfer of cases between current courts is now being opened so that judicial activity can increase. Extending the jurisdictions makes it easier to distribute legal cases between courts within the individual jurisdictions. The Christian People's Party will not lay down local courts or land change rights. The aim is the opposite of increasing the activity in each court. This is a good rural policy that provides better justice and counters recruitment problems. Fewer court leaders mean less administration and more judgmental activities. The proposition from the government assumes that no main seats are to be designated within the new jurisdictions. All courts are assimilated and it is assumed that the President of the Court of Justice is physically present in the courts of the jurisdiction. Although the new jurisdictions get their own names and are called new District Courts, this does not mean that the local courts in the district are to be closed down. The provision of public and community services is continued, with objectives of higher quality and legal certainty throughout the country. The cases shall be evenly and appropriately distributed to each of the courts. All courts shall have a staff who shall ensure that the public is properly provided with a court of law. In the case of courts which currently have four permanent judicial posts or less, the level of the current number of annual works relating to the core activity shall be maintained. Now in the state budget for 2021, the courts get an increase of 71 million. kr for crew. This corresponds to around 40 new jurisprudences. It is also proposed to allocate 42.6 million. kr for digitisation. From 2014 to 2020, this government has granted 400 million. kr for the digitisation of Norwegian courts. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we are now deciding that all division and possible change of jurisdiction should be determined politically. The king shall determine the place where the courts shall have their permanent courts. The new structure ensures that all courts remain and are staffed to increase legal certainty, higher skills, greater capacity and thus better legal provision for people in all parts of the country. In the middle of this, I react to the statements of the opposition, or those of the majority of the committee. It's about carnage and hundreds of jobs from the Center Party. I am surprised that these parties will not be more constructive either. It seems to me that they are surprised at how good the result has really been, and perhaps a little offended for that reason – a little sloppyly said. I will conclude by saying that the Christian People's Party will continue to work to strengthen the sound, image and security of all the district courts in Norway. The Christian People's Party supports the comments and proposals made by the Right, Left and Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1278	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1283	I can first say to the representative Tuskedal that I do not believe any of the opposition parties were necessarily surprised at the outcome of the conciliation – perhaps also about the progress party's reverse operation in this matter. It is true that judicial reform is also an expression of something greater, namely sustained centralisation, among other things. many major centralising reforms, not least those which were launched when the Right Party and the Advance Party joined together and followed up later. Through the decision in this case, the Christian People's Party is involved in securing the governmental parties and the Progress Party a room for action so that changes in the court structure can later be made without having to deal with this in the Stortinget. There is uncertainty in many places in the country, as future changes are uncertain. I hope there will be a new majority next harvest, but if it doesn't: Does the Christian People's Party mean that no courts will be laid down in the next period if the Christian People's Party is then part of the big crowd?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1292	I'm a little surprised when a puller pulls the centralization card. This case shows that the districts are being cared for in the best way, that is to say. The second is that yes, the courts will pass. It's adopted, and the crew is inserted. If this change is made, it should be promoted for the Stortinget to deal with magnificence. It's inside the deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1297	After all, the structure of the Courts is firm until a new structure is decided by the government. That is what is contained in today's decisions, that the Government of the King of the Council of State may decide to amend or abolish the courts and tribunals, and it shall then be submitted to the Stortinget. This does not mean that there will be a new case for Stortinget, but that you can tell them about it, for example. by means of budgetary proposals. If it is that the Christian People's Party believes it is important that the kind of changes, as the left-wing representative said earlier, are actually the subject of political debate and anchoring in the Stortinget, why do the government parties vote against, among other things. The Workers' Party's proposal that the Storting should treat changes or the closure of courts as a matter of its own in Stortinget, and not just get them presented and informed about them?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1304	A compromise proposal has been reached, and it seems that the Christian People's Party is very good. It requires that no courts be closed, that minimum staff be maintained and that the core activity be continued as before. We transfer and strengthen the judgmental part of the court, and we believe that the democratic principle is very well respected. No one can lay down a place of property without it being treated in Stortinget, and I believe that it also stands at kgl. Resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1309	In his speech, the representative spoke that government reform will now help to increase the activity of each court. At the same time, the representative said in a reply earlier that he now wants to gather the children's cases to some large courts. What's a little important to bring back then is that the children's stuff was 31 pst. Of all the dispute cases in 2019, and in many of the smaller courts, there is a very large proportion — in some cases more than half of them. Then I wonder: What things are the government parties, of which the Christian People's Party is a part then, think you should move to the small courts to replace all the children's things that are going to disappear, if you think that the activity should be kept at the same level?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1317	Now it has been said that the core business must be carried out at all places of activity. Where the individual circuit will have strengthened the different things, get up to that circle. That is why I also pointed to the need for moderate specialisation. I think it's better for judges to move on than for people to travel far. It's important that the kind of things happen where you have confidence, and close to where you live. Then it's clear that children's affairs require their own competence, and we want it to be strengthened in court. But, as the Court of Justice also said, that kind of special competence also applies to other areas. We hope, and I am absolutely sure that this reform will lead to increased quality and competence in all courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1322	The representative said that this should now be resolved by means of a more round trip by the judges. He also said in his post that the sorenics who are now to lead many courts should not have a permanent place of work; they should travel around. It'll take a lot of time, because here we're talking about huge distances. We can use Hedmark as an example, as the government now wants to call the Eastern Inland District Court, where the janitor who is to be the head of both Hamar, Elverum and Tynset must travel for up to three hours only between those workplaces. I expect the government has done some calculations of how much this will cost. This is the working time that the sorenprinters could have spent on being sorenprinters and judges, which must now be used for driving. How much time does a sour writer in the East Inland get to spend on traveling every week?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1327	I'm recording that the Center Party is more concerned with the janitor than with the legal certainty and proximity of most people to meet quality in their neighbourhood and in their courts. It is clear that this proposal results in resources being transferred from administration to judicious annual work. From the Christian People's Party we see this from the people's side. People have to meet quality, they're going to meet closeness, and they're going to have to deal with their issues as much as possible in the country and in the best possible way. Then rather get the scapegoat running, it's my Christian People's Party's conviction. But it's up to the individual court how they want to organize this. I can't go into Hedmark in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1334	I want to get back to this with children's stuff. Now the representative here also says that this is about people. If we're going to assume that children's affairs are going to be brought together in some of the main courts, it's just that in a vulnerable situation, families and children have to go far in order to be in court. It's demanding. There is an extra burden as many of these matters are difficult already. What kind of reflections do the Christian People's Party and the representative Tuskedal really do around that? When you move all the children's cases to some of the large courts, you also remove the possibility that children and families have to get these cases dealt with near where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1341	I feel it's turning the case upside down, because with our proposal, we're just going to strengthen the districts with competence. It'll give you a shorter distance. It won't give you any longer distance. It will give the judging function greater competence and more specialisation. Then it's up to the individual judiciary – if the individual case is to be taken close to where the individual family lives, then the judge gets to move there. This proposal is precisely what the Central Party is calling for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1346	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1351	Challenges to the current judicial structure and the need for changes have been addressed on several occasions and pointed out by, among others, the Court Commission, the Special Court Committee, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Judiciary and many hearing bodies, including: a clear overweight of the courts themselves. The structure of the day is described by several hearing bodies as over-ripe for changes. Last week, in Gjøvik, the sorenicist stated to Oppland Arbeiderblad that ‘in a system still based on the 1500s, we cannot today send cases between the courts’, on the ground that every judge in Gjøvik has 13 cases in the next two months, while each judge in the Payers has 4.5 cases in the same period. There are just these types of differences the government wants to cancel out. A Joint Control and Constitutional Committee has stated: ‘The Committee considers that there is reason to consider how flexibility can be increased by some structural changes such as major legal circuits.’ The current system of small courts prevents a flexible flow of matters and resources between courts. Where small courts have to have a minimum staff to maintain day-to-day operations, this makes it difficult to allocate resources to other courts, despite the availability of capacity. Six District Courts, according to the National Audit Office, have an efficiency potential of more than 50 pst. Furthermore, such transfers are both time-consuming and resource-consuming, and the rules on this are referred to by several hearing bodies as emergency solutions that are totally unsuitable for resolving the challenges of the courts. Changes in the rules are not enough; that's the structure we have to do something about. This is why the government is proposing larger, autonomous units, which will increase flexibility and improve the professional environment. It will not only increase production and regular processing time, but also facilitate the development of skills and moderate specialisation. The latter is from the SEC and, among other things, The Children’s Ombudsman was particularly important in children’s matters. I do not believe that small courts are worse than the large courts, but small courts do not have the same opportunity to drive systematic development of competence. It requires greater professional environments than many of today's courts have, as several small courts themselves have pointed out in the hearing. Minor District Courts also do not have the possibility of judicial mediation to the same extent as larger district courts. It is because a judge who has been a legal agent can only participate in the further proceedings if the parties so request, and the judge himself finds it objectionable. The national audit considers it unfortunate that the public does not have equal access to this offer. It is important for me to stress that this reform is not about closures or centralisation. On the contrary, this is a reform that will be good for the districts, and not least for the users. The courts will continue to be located where they are today, and for the public the proximity to the courts will be the same, but the judges they meet will belong to a wider professional environment. The reform ensures important jobs in the districts by facilitating increased activity in courts with few cases today. The members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left will also solve the challenges in the courts by looking at the opportunities provided by the Court of Justice Act. There are possibilities for more hearing bodies to describe as completely inappropriate. Joint management is also not an ideal solution, but is the opportunity that has actually led to better use of resources in today's structure. But neither do these members want to maintain this possibility. It's the government's assessment that we need to make changes to the structure. This is simply about increasing legal certainty for all citizens throughout the country, while maintaining all courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1373	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1378	This judicial reform affects not only the country’s autonomous district courts, which are reduced from today’s 60 to 23 years, but also the country’s autonomous land change rights, which are also tending to be remarkable today. In my home district, West-Telemark, we have both land change rights and things right in White Sea, and both the government and the Progress Party seem to have forgotten them a little today. The proposal for a minority in the Committee does not allow the establishment of courts for the rights of land change, because, at this point in the Court's law, the right to property only means the right to property. If the Council of State agrees with me in this, why is there no proposal for a change of land parcel in today's proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1383	That's because this case is about changes in the court, and the land change rights are still going to be where they are. These are professional courts, where the trade unions have asked for changes. Then, in particular, the Minister of Agriculture will be better able to ask about the practical challenge faced by these courts, but it is about the competence and acquisition of professional competence. Larger legal circles also offer greater possibilities in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1388	This is closely linked, and there are a lot of people in the field of land change rights who also react to the fact that a person does not provide the right legal basis for an entire court reform. We have discussed some of this today with core tasks and staffing, and if the changes that the government now wants to make, the core tasks will also be linked to the land change rights, i.e. engineers, case handlers, etc., then they will still be in their permanent office, which they have today, for example. the right to land change in White Seaid? Is it going to be just like today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1394	There has at all been a wonderful debate today, where no one seems to be concerned or to have ambitions for legal certainty in this country, or to worry about the Riksrevision's findings or all the assessments we have received. There has been a debate about words and vocabulary that I think has been very wonderful. So the land change rights have to be where they are today, and the employees of the land change rights have to be where they are today, but then they are attracted to professional skills that are also coming to the public today. It's not going to change with the changes we're proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1399	I thank you for your answer. Yes, there are many words, but as I have said before today, words mean something in the Storting – they mean something in the setting, and that means something that we say. To the Committee and to the Proposition, the State Department of the Council of State writes that one does not propose amendments to the Law of the Court of Justice §22 and 25 because it requires ‘a broader decision-making basis’. Is that what the council still means?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1406	No, I do not think so, because what the representative omits is that this was at the hearing. When this was not proposed in the case to Stortinget, it was because we waited for part 2 of the court commission and what they would say about this. What they're saying is they're codifying today's practice. There's also the minority in the committee, who now become a majority in the hall, do. It's fascinating to hear how a majority wants to fundamentally change the practices you have today. Not many months have passed since this Chamber actually said no to changes in the Court of Justice in Eidsvoll and Østfold. So it's a codification of today's right. It has been in consultation, and Part 2 of the Court of Justice recommends that it be continued. I don't think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1415	I only want to follow up on the last thing that was said here about the codification of the current right. There is reason to ask questions about whether there is actually a codification at the same level as today. For if one understands the answer e.g. by former Minister of Justice Jøran Kallmyr, who pointed out that major changes should not only be presented, but should be presented as a matter for Stortinget, there is something else that is being codified today. If the case is settled, it shall be filed, it shall not be filed as the case may be. That's why we're concerned -- we're not worried about being difficult, we don't want to be ugly -- we just want to have a real debate with our own issues to the Stortinge in case of major changes in the courts and the courts later. That's why I want Monica Meland to take us seriously. The concerns we bring here are real. There are several who ask the same question, which are sorenprinters, judges, lawyers. As I said, it's not just to be difficult. I'd like to say to the right which of these concerns is what Malta is saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1422	I understand the concern – I had it yesterday, too, when some lawyers – even judges – have managed to persuade someone to believe that we are now proposing to change constitutional custom. It's been a long time since I was a lawyer, but I know enough about this so that we're not near it. We have a practice in Stortinget. We are proposing to continue this practice. Then again there is a debate on words. I'm serious. So the matter has to be presented to the Stortinget, and then the Stortinget treats it in the way that the Stortinget will. It is tempting to quote the father of parliamentarianism: 'All power in this Chamber'. By June at the latest, the Storting said no to changes, did not recommend changes. So it's presented to the Storting. The decision is formally decided by the government, but it would be very unwise for the government not to follow the recommendations made by the Storting. We are now codifying what has been current practice throughout this period, and I am sure that the representative has been involved in several cases and dealt with several issues about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1431	What has emerged in the debate over and over again is that there will be so much more judicial resources out of this reform. Here we're going to get rid of these court leaders some places, and then we're going to turn them into judges. I want to ask, is it that simple? Can a scapegoat make judges, judges who would have been expected to do so in the usual way? And could a person use these resources in the same way as if they had been added as judges at the starting point? As far as I am concerned, there was a problem after the last reform, in 2001, that the sorenner could not be used in the usual way, and that in practice very well paid, but very little working people, as after a reform where they were set aside for what they were supposed to be, were, of course, still not being judgmental, unfortunately. I want to hear whether it is well enough provided and well enough thought about in this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1436	I have now mentioned all the investigations that have taken place, including: the Court of Justice. I know that not everyone has the same confidence in them – I do. They have a good professional basis for the changes they make. With regard to the possibility of making changes to the job description of an emergency recorder, this is a full opportunity. You cannot change the title and pay, but the content of the job can change. This will be done by fewer leaders and more judges. I don't think there can be any doubt that when you get fewer to lead and more to judge, you get more judges, you get less trial time. It's very good for all those who are in line waiting to get their cases handled.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1443	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1450	First of all as Oslo's representative, but also with some experience as a practicing lawyer here in the city, I have followed with interest the debate on the change planned for Oslo District Court and Oslo Byfogdembete. Oslo Byfogdembete is a specialised bankruptcy court. Central matters are temporary insemination and arrest, bankruptcy, inheritance and change, forced sale of housing, the Board of Appeal for the decisions of the public prosecutor, etc. The Court is characterised by large volume – in 2019 there were 1,800 requests for bankruptcy, 900 of which were opened, and there is a pressing need for urgent action. This position has developed a unique competence and a strong professional environment, and also serves as a centre of excellence for other courts and external users. The Court also has a good reputation. As a day-to-day illustration of this, I can mention that Oslo received today's request for the reconstruction of Norwegian. It has been transferred to the Court of Justice of Asker and Bærum for the sole reason that the Byfogdembet has the largest competence environment in this field. Nor has it escaped our attention that central users, the professional bankruptcy environment and the judges of the Court of Justice have expressed scepticism. The fear is that the valuable specialist competence, the efficient handling and quality are not properly maintained and continued in a large merged court. I would like to add, for my part, that the reasons otherwise given for mergers of courts elsewhere in the country do not seem to be consistent with the situation in Oslo. Both the district court and the county council have a large case size, they recruit well, the courts are co-located, and both courts are more than large enough to have critical mass to have economies of scale. In the NOU on court structure, the opinion is on Oslo District Court and Oslo City Sheriff's Office: ‘As an argument for special services, it has been stated in the past that they can act as centres of excellence in other courts. Today, both Oslo Byfogdembete and Oslo are acting as such centres of excellence. In the opinion of the Commission, this function may also be exercised by a full-time court. Both courts are organised in departments and, in order to continue to function as centres of competence, it could be natural for the jurisdictions of the city authorities to be organised within a separate section of the merged court.’.» [[and]] [[e]] [[is]] The committee was therefore aware of the advantages of the specialised court and considers that these benefits can be maintained by administrative aggregation. That's where I'm happy to see that there's now a common-citizen note that's just starting from this. DeEthiopian month 5 - ShortName ‘explains that the new unit must be organised in such a way as to safeguard the high quality and specialist character of today’s by-pass.’ When the proposition is now adopted, the Minister of Justice is also empowered to implement an organisational change within the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. This means that implementation can take account of the majority premises clarified here today and adjust speed and direction if one is unable to provide the specialist benefits. We can face the fact that there will be a great deal of forced business and bankruptcy as the Korona crisis takes place and we see the financial consequences of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1480	In accordance with Rule 41 of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of us in the Central Party, the Labour Party and SV, I propose that this matter be sent back to the Judicial Committee for a new and defence debate. However, according to the Rules of Procedure, the debate will continue now and the retransmission proposal will be rejected only when we come to vote on this matter. I would like to justify the return proposal that there is too much that will be unclear in this matter even after today's vote is over, where the proposals from the Right and the Advance Party will have multiples. The proposals they have put forward, which are of great importance for the future of the courts, have not been made by means of distributions or by means of hearings, as they should have been after the so-called distribution instructions. We've had an extremely urgent situation in the Justice Committee. It's this last thing that's part of our foundation to send the case back to the Justice Committee, because the urgency has been shown to have major consequences. The final draft of the reform was not clear until the beginning of December, when, following negotiations with the Progress Party, the Government Party concluded an agreement as a deviation from what was presented in the proposal from the Government. There is a lot of new and not least unclear both when it comes to manning, when it comes to changing the legal systems of Finnmark, where neither the Sametinget, the District Courts themselves, nor the municipalities have been involved or heard, and when it comes to claims that no courts should be closed. All this and much more actually need to be prepared. The court administration has begun to refer to the property rights proposed in the proposal, such as office locations. They say on their intranet that ‘all courts in the first instance shall be brought together in major courts’ and that ‘judges and case handlers shall retain their office’. Then the confusion is total: are we talking about office places, as the court administration perceives there are, or real property rights, that the government party and the Progress Party claim there should exist as many of them as before? Section 22 of the Law provides the government with the opportunity to make minor changes to the legal framework. This section will vote today to change, but we haven't been made clear whether this change will actually weaken the influence of the Greatness on structural changes, or whether it helps to strengthen the influence, as the majority claims. In the newsletter the government sent out in the spring, they proposed a minimum crew of at least one judges in each court of law. So, in the proposition of October, the government argues against a minimum crew. The Minister of Justice even stood in this Chamber and argued like that. However, in the agreement between the Government Party and the Progress Party, there have been rather non-binding proposals that say that it should be manning out of the core business, etc. If they had the same number of additions in each location, they could have clarified this without creating complex formulations that could be interpreted in any direction. I could have mentioned much more, but in some cases this is about a major reform that is being treated in an unprofessional way. The majority in Stortinget today can remedy this by voting in favour of our proposal to refer the matter back to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1495	The representative Jenny Klinge has then proposed that the matter be referred back to the committee, and the proposal will be addressed to the vote on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1501	In this case, there is especially one field that has not received enough attention. That's the Sami dimension in the justice system. Paragraphs 3-4 of the Law of Association refer to the extension of the right to use Sami in the judiciary. There is a great deal of work behind the establishment of Inner Finnmark District Court, which was established in 2004. Inner Finnmark District Court was established for a special purpose of safeguarding the Sami dimension in the courts. The Constitution and international obligations require the State to facilitate it. The new proposal suffers from a lack of Sami participation and weakens the Sami dimension. In the course of its nearly 20 years, Inner Finnmark District Court has built up a unique competence in Sami as a legal language and the recognition of Sami legal sources and Sami judicial issues. Inner Finnmark District Court is the main recruitment institution for lawyers with competence in Sami language and culture. For Inner Finnmark District Court is Sami daily language, and there is a great job in further developing the Sami dimension in the judiciary. Today’s proposals will affect this court’s role in contributing to the judicial debate with a particular focus on Sami judicial issues. Inner Finnmark District Court has stated that it is important to strengthen this district court. They do not recommend a solution where only development tasks are carried out, as this will in reality change the identity of the district court. On the other hand, today's proposal is quite different from what has been at the hearing and does not take into account the opinion of the respondent or the court's trustee. The Sorenprinter states to the newspaper that the proposed structural changes pose a significant risk of a deterioration in the Sami dimension and hence Sami legal certainty. If the Storting now adopts the significant changes without ensuring that the Sámi rights are respected, this will be a new attack on our indigenous people. What the Storting should do is change the protective provisions so that co-workers in other parts of Norway are also given the opportunity to bring their cases before a court that fully ensures Sami language, culture and legal certainty. The government presented its north-eastern message just under two weeks ago. There's Sami, Sameetinget and Sápmi mentioned 417 times in total. It is good that the government writes a lot about cohabitation and rights, but what they are now showing in practice is a complete disclaimer of responsibility and an example of a lack of understanding for people living in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1516	The adoption of laws is one of the most serious activities of this Assembly. Therefore, we should do so with the seriousness and thoroughness of the matters that they deserve. This might be especially true when we're going to adopt a law to regulate the third state power. In one, hopefully, close cooperation with the other two state powers, we need to find solutions that are good and that are thought through. That is why I am very disappointed with the presidency, which used Section 23 of Stortingen's Rules of Procedure to narrow down the procedure, probably at the request of the government. That provision is intended to extend the duration of proceedings if, for example: shall take account of more detailed procedures, or of the small batches of the Storting, which shall also have the right to intervene properly. It's an abuse of Section 23. That's what the letter we got from Ofoten District Court on 19 November this year. We got it to the Control and Constitutional Committee, it went to the Justice Committee, and it went to the Presidentship of the Stortinge. From the Committee on Control, we recommended that it be the President of the Grand Prix who replied, and the President of the Grand Duchy, in response of 1 December, when the President of the Grand Duchy says that it is natural that the questions of fundamental law and the relationship with the investigative instructions, which are addressed in the enquiry, be assessed by the Judicial Committee in the context of the examination of the proposal. That letter sent the President-in-Office the same day that the Judicial Committee gave its opinion. Then the majority of the Judicial Committee, who are trying to be responsible for something as important as law-handling, has asked the Presidency to be allowed to spend a longer time going through the matter, to assess whether the investigation instructions have been followed, to make sure that parties are heard, and to consider the issue of the Constitution, which we should at least take seriously in this Assembly. But no, the presidency rejects it. That is why I recommend, as strongly as I can, the Stortinget to follow the proposal of the representative Klinge, what was just presented here. Because when we are going to adopt a law to govern the third state power, and it is being asked by representatives of the third state power themselves, qualified questions as to whether it might be contrary to the Constitution – I do not claim it is, but we should consider it in a thorough manner – I ask that the Justice Committee should have the opportunity to go into this matter more thoroughly than the hastened process that has been adopted and which was further mapped out by the fact that what is currently being discussed here is a budgetary settlement between the contracting parties too soon. We're used to the fact that the government sometimes doesn't have much respect for the Storting. But it is dramatic if the majority of the population and the majority of the presidency do not show the respect for the Storting that we are to handle legal cases responsibly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1531	This is a sad day for Norwegian courts, and I am extremely disappointed by the Progress Party, which just a few months ago in the media stood and promised, together with us in the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, to save the courts throughout Norway. So if you fail so soon afterwards, once again becomes a support party for Right eagerness to centralize and give the Right, Left and Christian People's Party majority to centralize the courts. The center party is concerned that we should have services close to people. We believe that it is totally dependent on having independent courts all over Norway, and that people out there will get a worse offer when the government now goes in to lay down 44 independent courts. Because that's what happens when you turn what are today independent courts into branches under central, large courts. Right-wing representative Peter Frölich used his speech to compare this reform with the police reform. If there's one thing that should make the warning lights flash strongly, that's exactly what it is, because there we had a reform that the government called the near-police reform, where gold and green forests were promised. There was supposed to be so much police in the whole country, you had to get the police closer to people. Now that the reform is a fact, the opposite has happened. Police are further away, the offer of people in the districts has become worse. Therefore, I have little confidence that it is true when the government promises that this will be a decentralisation reform. This new centralisation reform contains a number of logical flaws. On the one hand, the Government claims that the cases should be dealt with as a general rule at the nearest court. On the other hand, it is claimed that there should be more flexibility in transferring cases between courts. Another flaw is that you say that the small courts should also be strengthened, but at the same time you want to centralize the children's affairs to some large courts. They make up up to half of the cases in many of the small courts, so it will weaken them. But perhaps the greatest flaw of all: the right says that we need a reform, but there's no going to happen, for everything should be like before, no courts should be weakened, all the courts should pass. What, then, is the point of adopting a major reform? For the Central Party, this is centralisation, and it is a sad day for Norwegian courts that the Progress Party has joined in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1544	I want to take advantage of the opportunity to thank all the employees, all those who work in our courts, both lawyers and judges as well as administrative staff. They do a very important job every day. They are important contributions to legal certainty in our country, and they do the job in a good way, despite the very demanding financial framework for our courts. I was recently visiting the Lower Roman Empire District Court and got an insight into the everyday life of the District Court. In Rome, over some time, there has been a merger of Lower Rome-rich districts in Lillestrøm and Upper Rome-rich districts on Eidsvoll. It was about a merger and a co-location, that is, one common thing with one courtroom. That proposal has now been put into the drawer, now the government is proposing to merge Lower Rome-rich districts, Upper Rome-rich districts and Glamdal districts on Kongswinger to one new district court, quite rightly with three courts. Of course, there are changes compared to the current situation. That's the whole point, and what I've reacted to in this debate, is the double game that the Progress Party is running, which on the one hand says nothing is going to change, everything is going to be what it is today. In Rome, the Progress Party has even guaranteed that there will be no changes. Of course, there are changes. When André N. Skkelstad said in the debate today – and I noted it correctly – that no courts should be closed, it is completely wrong. A number of courts shall be closed. And for my area, for Romerike and Glamdal, then three District Courts now become one District Court. There is no point in double-communing it; there will be changes in our District Courts – major changes – if the Government Parties and the Advance Party get a majority in the Grand Duchy today. Of course, there will be three courts for my area, there is no one in the debate today who has claimed otherwise. At least it'll be until further notice, but it's clear that if the starvation that's in our courts continues, it's a matter of time before the internal pressure gets so big that there'll be changes on it as well. So I just want to finally say to those who argue that the larger the units, the larger the units, the better it gets: then I don't understand why they don't propose five or ten things, because it seems like that to some of the people who argue that there are no limits. This cannot lead to correctness.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1555	Today I'm really proud. As a representative of the Sogn and Fjordane constituency, I am proud that the proposal from the government to a new court structure is based on a model that Sogn and Fjordane have had tenets since 2017 – a model that came about after a good process with a great degree of involvement and support from both political and professional environments in the former Sogn and Fjordane counties. Sogn and Fjordane have for several years had positive experiences with this model, and I haven't heard of anyone who wants to go back to neither the old model before 2005, with four independent things, or the model from before 2017, with two things. Sogn and Fjordane have today one district with three courts. They add, regardless of where they are located, a college that has received and is given the opportunity for moderate specialisation, complementing each other in a good way. The Judges shall rise between the different courts when a case is brought before the Court. In spite of the fact that there are some large distances with many fjords and mountains, we do not hear anything other than that they add to the scheme to express great satisfaction. The Court of Justice is as close and accessible to users as before 2017. The model has also led to good stability and development of the legal environment and other relevant professional bodies. The recruitment of judges has improved before 2017, and the recruitment of judges is as good as before. Sogn and Fjordane are located in a geographical area that must be representative of District Norway in every way. In my head trumps legal security mostly. When we can put in a bag and bag, this must be the world's largest cheek egg. I have a problem understanding the strong resistance that the Labour Party and the Center Party are expressing. We keep close to the users, we keep the skills workplaces, we strengthen the activity in the courts, and we guarantee legal certainty. One would think that we were standing here discussing two very different things today. With larger jurisdictions, the jurisdictional resources of the individual court may be used depending on the access to the case when the workload warrants it, thus reducing the unfortunate differences between jurisdictions. I think it's positive that the government has listened to the Commission and several of the hearing authorities, who have called for greater jurisdictions to be necessary to increase flexibility and thus address many of the challenges facing the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1568	In recent years, many communities have noticed that the forces of centralisation are strong, whether in the area of police, nav, health and county budgets, or concern about the courts or their jurisdictions. For too long, there has been a sectorial centralisation in the country without taking into account the overall or impact on local communities and regions. The relocation of skills places often has a significant negative impact on municipalities or on the region. This is also why concerns about changes in the court structure have been high. The fear has been that the districts will once again be weakened. This is what communities fear – the loss of legal competence and local legal environments. There's a lot to say in the districts. Of course, changes may be necessary, but changes can be made in ways other than those proposed by the government. That is what the Right has not understood; they have not found the balance in developing the courts and taking into account that Norway is as it is. The working party will reverse centralisation and establish a principle of subsidiarity in everything we do. We also show that in this matter of judicial reform. One of the changes that happen is Inner Finnmark District Court. While the Progress Party in ours said that reform was unnecessary, we now see the result. In Inner Finnmark, inner Finnmark is split up or laid down in today’s form. Internal Finnmark District Court was established in 2004 to maintain the Sami dimension in the courts, and there, Sami jurisdiction has been built up. So now the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party will put it in today's form. Only today we have received three enquiries. We have received an enquiry from Sametinget, which says that they will strongly warn against making changes to Inner Finnmark District Court without having been consulted with the Sametinget. We have received an enquiry from the Judiciary's Association, which says that the proposal has neither been investigated nor has been subject to consultation, and that it is also not very justified. And we have received a request from the rapporteurs in Tana, Karasjok, Kautokeino and Porsanger, who say that they are upset that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left a few days before Stortinget's proceedings come up with proposals for a new court structure which has neither been investigated nor discussed with them. These enquiries now come with such strong words because none of them have had the opportunity to comment on this change, which comes in the last minute. The government says they're listening to professional advice, e.g. by the Court of Justice, but they do not follow them. So now it's like they're overrun by local populace, the Sameting and the professional advice without consultation. We hope it's not a taste of the action space they've given up for the next few years, if they get a majority in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1583	I am pleased with the post by the representative Tetzschner, who held in place about Oslo byvogd and the importance of the urban authority. It deals with, as Tetzschner said, issues that are very important for business and people in Oslo now: bankruptcy, debt regimes, money requirements, death tolls, joint ownership change, etc. And everyone says they're satisfied with the bypass. The parties to the Government have been consulted. In this case, it's not about merging legal circles or anything in connection with it; it's simply a merger of the city council with Oslo district court proposed, on a different basis than the other issues that are up in the matter today. The government parties refer to the hearing, but in the hearing on the merger of the city council and Oslo district court have the tax administration, the law firm, the Oslo chemist office, Oslo byvogdembet, of course, the governors of the capital, the government attorney, the municipal attorney, the sorenist himself, etc. – all the instances that I will at least pay great attention to – go against the merger. The city council has 60 employees, 13 special judges. It's a question of whether the largest always gets the best. What's the reason, it's hard to get hold of, because both Oslo District Court and Oslo Byfog Dembete work very well. They don't need each other; they don't have to be merged. Tetzschner makes a very good statement about how well this works, and refers to the remark from the government parties, which really does not respond to anything, just assuming that you have to maintain the same quality as today. That's good, but then you say it works very well today. It's hard for me to understand why you're going to do something with something that works very well. This change is incomprehensible to us in Oslo. I'm glad that another Oslo representative, from another party, is also bringing out the value of the beehive. I agree with all of Tetzschner on the subject of the by-pass, but the conclusion – that you should accept a bundling assuming that it will work with the same quality as it is today – I do not understand anything from it. This has been thoroughly investigated once. There was a report in 2003, called the Knoff report, which, after a review of the relationship between the city councillor and Oslo district court, found that it was not right to merge them. I think this has been debated in a vote in this debate and in this case, and I wish those who are likely to be the majority in the Chamber today would think about it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1604	It has been interesting to follow the debate. When you listen to the government parties and the Progress Party, it seems that there are hardly any noticeable changes at all, and at least not for people. Then we're lucky, because the days we need the District Courts are basically not our best days – at least not after the government made it a local political core task to dedicate people, but it's now another matter. On the contrary, people who need the courts are people at their most vulnerable. There may be families in the middle of an uproar of life, a child-sharing case, it's about people who may have been knocked down at the local pub and are going to meet in court, it's about self-employed who are in a difficult case, or workers who are illegally laid off and have a staff case. Closeness to the court is about trust, local knowledge, understanding of culture, history, tradition and, above all, the law. It's about being judged by equals and experiencing that you get professional legal aid where you live. It's also about skills jobs, community and what kind of cities and agglomerations we want in the future. All of this will be weakened when the independent rights of things disappear. All the experience shows that when there are only so-called courts again, the law practice disappears after the main seat. Important areas of competence are being weakened and people's proximity to the legal environment is being reduced. Now I know that the Right Party and the Advance Party are not at the forefront of the line as defenders of neither the People's Government nor the people's confidence in the public. On the other hand, it is disappointing that the Christian People's Party and the Left have not taken these perspectives into consideration. Closeness to the population is important for public confidence in the Court of Justice and interest in, among other things. being a fellow judge. I think we noticed it already when we saw the big municipalities, that people's commitment to what's happening in the big municipalities is getting smaller. The same thing I think we're going to see here when we're going to recruit fellow judges for larger structures in the future. It's alarming and reason to stay a little bit. As an east fold, I also note that all district courts in Eastfold, except for Fredrikstad, come under the somewhat strange wording of the majority parties: ‘In courts which today have four permanent jurisdictions or less, the level of today’s number of annual works relating to the core business shall be maintained.’ So the majority of those who work at Mysen, Moss, Sarpsborg or Halden, can be moved to Ski or Fredrikstad as long as the Zorenprinters and the Judiciary Administration so wish. That's exactly what you fear, when we know the centralization history this government has on its merit list. That's the same thing we've seen in other areas in the public sector, for example. within police, tax offices, Nav or healthcare. A management that sits in one place will have a lot easier to rationalize away at the places you no longer sit, and that's the experience we fear.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1619	In Finnmark, we're busy keeping our dishes. Why? Well, because they're going to be decent for people who live in the area, and it's going to be possible to meet in court without spending two or three days getting to and from. The government's proposal was dramatic for Finnmark. Teeth were to be laid down in Hammerfest and Vadsø. Sør-Varanger municipality was to be transferred to Inner Finnmark district – and it is a district court that is responsible for the Sami and has it as its specialty. The proposal raised concerns in Finnmark. Is that nice? We're used to making savings the easiest way to get farthest away from Oslo. This centralisation was clearly too difficult to implement, so now the government parties and the Progress Party write in their comments that the court offer in our jurisdictions should remain. Does that mean that the District Courts are going to be independent District Courts? It also states that there should be a systematic transfer of cases between current courts, in order to increase legal activity. What does systematic transfer mean? Well, that's a good idea. We in Finnmark know something about the closure of state activities. I hear the Right Party and the Advance Party are talking about courts. A courthouse is not the same as a district court. The use of words in this matter has obviously been very conscious. When you don't guarantee which things are going to last, there's also reason to be concerned, and that's the Workers' Party. With regard to the circumstances in Finnmark, the Norwegian Judicial Association has today said in a letter of today: Internal Finnmark District is split and transferred to two newly created District Courts in Finnmark. The proposal is neither examined nor subject to consultation, nor is it particularly justified. It's actually pretty dramatic, based on the function of Inner Finnmark District Court. The proposal was originally intended by the government to strengthen the Inner Finnmark district, but ended with the Indre Finnmark district being split and split. This way, the Sami becomes weaker. The joint president has also warned against it. I think that what the government had first thought about this when they sent it out – where some of the things were going to change, but the inner Finnmark thing right actually exists – has at least come out as the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1634	In the spring, the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Progress Party agreed to say no to the judicial reform. We did that because the reform is unnecessary. If you're concerned about case-sharing and cooperation between District Courts, there's easier ways to do it than by changing the court structure. The party of progress has turned around. That's why we're here today, and the voters should notice that trusting the Progress Party is not so much a trick, as the magazine Vesterålen pointed out in its leader on Friday. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure that important skills jobs are maintained throughout the country, to strengthen our courts and, where appropriate, to make the necessary legislative changes in order to achieve the cooperation we want. We think it means something that there is local authority in the courts, both for business and for those appointed to the court. I live in Narvik, and I do that because I got a job as a judge in Ofoten District Court in 1996. I was there for three years. The big question in this case is, what does it actually mean that there will be a court of law and not a court of Narvik after this decision? No, say it – I guess the government didn't take a particularly good time to figure it out. What we know is that there will be no leader in Narvik anymore. The President may stay three hours away, at the court in Sortland, or one and a half hours away in Harstad, at their court. There are not very good roads – at this time of year you like to avoid that trip, and alternatives to the road are not available. There are no minimum crew requirements. It says that the government is encouraged to secure the crew. Does that also mean that the government can remove all the annual works without going to Stortinget? Frölich claims that there will be more judges of the reform. No, not by the reform – it has to be allocated, and the courts, as we know, are starving. There will be fewer sorenics with this decision. My silhouette in Narvik was just as productive as his court-martial colleagues. He was one of the best judges in the country. So this with quality and size I think is an interesting discussion. There is no link between structure and quality. As a judge, you're the one who gets into your case -- it's a pretty lonely job. I also think that another concern is if you don't live in the environment you serve. It's about the responsibility that the court works well and is an important part of society. It's also like where you have a leader, it wants to grow around that leader. There's something about the people -- what we have around us, we see, and that's where we like to grow. It can be difficult where the leader is not. The most important objection is that the government can take control of these courts, for example: in the event of reorganisation, and it is far too bad to know whether we are protecting the third state power there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1654	The adoption or amendment of legal provisions is a core task of the Stortinget. That's one of the most important things we do. This is, in fact, the second act of two days in which we shall either adopt legislative changes without comitology or without the thorough treatment that we could have had. It is clear that a letter from the Presidency asking a committee to consider a matter, knowing that the matter is being given on the same day, is not a real recommendation. That's not good. It is not good for a presidency which also has the task of ensuring proper proceedings in the Chamber. I must therefore join the criticism that has come from the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, regarding the question that the matter should have been put at risk. This case reminds me a little of the police reform. There was no way at the time how much one would strengthen the offices that were not closed. All indications that the remaining offices could be weakened were rejected as misinformation and undermined the views of the majority and other parties. Now we see how it went. A number of still existing lumbar carpentry offices have an open space of only two to three days a week. They have not been strengthened, as the government promised at the time, and the police have become more heavy and desk-oriented. It will be interesting to follow this reform and see how it develops. Reform is as usual for Right-synonymous with structure. As usual, the Right will do something about the structure, as the Council of State also said so clearly. This is what most often happens to the Right and their partners when making changes. At each crossroad, the Right claims that this will be good for the districts. They don't listen at all to the signals they get from those who work and live in the districts, and to the units that are about to change. I must also say that I react very strongly to the fact that so many of the majority in the Chamber today actually go a long way in claiming that judges in smaller courts do not have the same competence as judges in larger courts. It's incredibly demeaning. And it's also wrong. There is no evidence anywhere that centralisation of the courts will lead to any better competence. It has not been given that a judge in Trondheim has a better overview of a hydroelectric matter in Namdalen or a neighbouring conflict on Fosen. Nevertheless, three of the districts of my constituency’s district’s district’s districts are to be set up as seagoing units and stand without seagoing management. It's sad. If the structure trumps, that's what the representative Myrli said – then you could probably have only five things, and then the judges could walk and travel between the different offices. Structure is not the solution to changes in quality and management.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1667	The aim of the Progress Party in forming a majority for a new court structure is to increase the quality of the courts and improve legal certainty for individuals. It will give us stronger professional environments and a much smarter use of resources. This is done without reducing the number of staff in the districts and without a single local court being closed — a solution that strengthens legal certainty and provides more judges. It was wrongly claimed by the representative Adelsten Iversen that the Sami dimension is being weakened. The Sami dimension is not weakened by the new court structure. In order to strengthen the Sami dimension of the Court of Justice, it is appropriate to extend the jurisdiction to cover the whole of East Finland, which is responsible for matters of Sami interest. Norway’s Supreme Court and the Court Commission point out that the informal exchange of experience and socialisation that arise in a workplace are important in order to ensure high quality. According to the Supreme Court, the courts are required to have a certain number of courts, which, in the view of the Supreme Court, would be difficult to achieve if the least-manned courts were maintained. The Sami population shall have good access to high-quality dispute settlements. Competence in the Sami courts requires the building of skills in Sami languages, Sami culture, Sami social life and Sami legal traditions. The Sami dimension of the Court of Justice means both matters relating to access to justice for co-workers and the responsibilities of the Court of Justice as state power in order to preserve and develop Sami language, culture and social life. It is claimed from some that internal Finnland is split or laid down. It's also quite wrong. Among the main demands we have not made was that no local courts or so-called courts should be closed. All shall have safe and fair courts, irrespective of where you live. Equal legal certainty in all corners of the country has been a fundamental principle of the Progress Party. The agreement negotiated by the Progress Party thus ensures that both local courts and the crew will pass. This includes, inter alia: that we are now legislating that it is the Storting that will decide whether or not to change the legal systems. It is in practice a strengthening of democracy, where we take power from bureaucrats and governments and move and leave it to the Storting. In the future, no courts will be able to be closed without the Stortinge. I'll stop there, and I'll follow the debate and move on to the Sami dimension.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1684	Today, there is probably a sad day in the name of centralisation, with the Right Party and the Progress Party at the rudder, where there is enough reform affecting citizens across the country with poorer services and where jobs are centralised away. So today, it's the court reform that makes sure that our districts are built up further. So that reform could just as easily have been called the ‘Near-Court Reform’, so the process and content of this reform are the totally flawed near-police reform. Also in the reform of the local court, there is a lot of great talk, where the people responsible later like that services aren't being moved away, but where that's exactly what's going to happen in practice. This is therefore a very sad day for Telemark – a state that the government and the Progress Party obviously cannot get centralized away and away quickly enough. In particular, the upper part of the county, because today green light is being given to bring down the important rights of the East Telemark on the Notodden and West Telemark on the White Sea. And Whiteseid is going to be hit further by the fact that you also want to put the right to land change there. Everything is gathered in the Ski, with everything that has to be said in the short and long term of negative effects for all those who have to go far when they are going to have difficult cases before the Court, and that means even fewer state competences jobs in White Sea and Notodden. I also feel that it is a mockery of the intelligence of all the people involved and also of ordinary peoples that the government and the support party, the Progress Party, claims that no courts are laid down with the reform, so today they vote down the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV's proposal to maintain the rights of the property and the rights of the land change and to maintain local leadership on all of them. Professor Eivind Smith of the Institute of Public Law at the University of Oslo then makes it clear that courts are being laid down in this reform, as are a number of sordid writers, rapporteurs, trust-elects and judges throughout the country. That's what they say. So those who are concerned are saying that the courts are being closed, while the government parties and the supporting party, the Progress Party, claim that all the courts that are now being laid down, will be maintained and should be equivalent. That's impossible. The things, the administration and the troublemakers can only be in one place at a time. Or should everything be sent to both Witteseid, Notodden and Skien? And the employees? Can they just work where they want to and meet up where they want – a kind of extreme version of an open office landscape? We can only look at the near-police reform to get an insight into what's really going to happen now. In that reform, everything would be so much better for the districts, but the fasitium is ready. In Grenland, the police have lost 42 employees during that reform, while Tønsberg has more than 200 employees. And a lot of people have lost police and county personnel in Upper Telemark. The centre party rightly fears that similar developments in the courts will now come, because although the government has not called the reform of the local court reform, the process and argumentation are unfortunately too much, too close to the police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1703	There's a little bit of confusion between the bourgeois parties in the debate today, and it actually underlines a little bit of what we're trying to find out, that here it would be a good idea to send the cases back to the committee. The left says in the hall today that they don't want the court structure to be submitted only to the Storting. But that's what we're doing today, and that's what we're proposing. The Christian People's Party says that it is the King, that is, the government, who is to determine the structure – and hence not the Stortinget. I would encourage everyone who thinks that structure should be dealt with in the staging room, to vote in favour of proposal No. 2 in document 8:36 today, which I have mentioned earlier in the debate. The Minister of Justice said in his speech that the Workers' Party's proposal to look at other solutions in the law has met with resistance. Yes, it has, especially from the main courts, the parts of the debate here that are basically not affected by the changes. But what the Minister of Justice doesn't mention is that our proposal has received a lot of support from many court leaders and lawyers too – but perhaps most importantly: from people, from users of the courts, from many, many spokesmen across the whole country who are concerned that we representing them on the Stortinget are able to have more thoughts in mind at the same time. I think it's unnecessary to make the changes that the government and the Progress Party are now proposing, just as the Progress Party meant in May. There are other ways to do it, and it's a shame we don't get the possibility. The legal certainty of people, having strong courts, is at the heart of a state of law. I've been involved in justice policy debates for many, many years, and I've been asking for evidence that the smallest things are giving people poorer legal certainty. It does not exist. And then some of the right-hand part of the Riksrevision pushed ahead as proof that there is a need for structural change. I say again, as I have said so many times before: the National Audit Board does not point to structural changes. What the courts need, and for which I thought the government party should be commended, is a better budget. The state budget for 2021 when it applies to the courts is quite good, contrary to what they have been for the last seven years with repeated red tape that has cut directly into the core business. It's positive, so why couldn't we beat our heads together today and say that it's fine with a better court budget, but let's look at other possibilities for our courts rather than making old-fashioned structural changes, because I think that's what it is. Structural change is the most old-fashioned medicine in existence, and often it is not as accurate as looking at more flexible solutions, which the Labour Party is calling for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1714	I can't think of a bigger disinformation campaign from a Norwegian political party than the Central Party has spread about the government's judicial reform lately. The installation has drilled a strategy where a desire to create unrest in the population through deliberately misleading information. This is new in Norwegian policy. In very many of the localities around the country, the Centre Party has mediated to people that local courts should be closed down and that hundreds of district work places will disappear. We have a clear message: no courts are laid down, no jobs will disappear. It is natural that there are different points of view in such a case, but we should all focus on keeping the debate at a despicable level. Wealth and debate are important in a rule of law and in a democracy. I record that the opposition likes to refer to those who disagree with the changes, but smoothly skips that a clear multiple is for, and that these changes are necessary. The courts of Norway are basically functioning well, the third state power is reviving high confidence in the population, and our courts are among the most independent in the world. However, there are some fundamental problems, such as: The National Audit Office has pointed out, and we are now proposing to do something about it. The large courts often have long queues, the small courts have a lot of free space that is not used. Small courts have problems recruiting new judges, and similar cases are decided differently between courts. To meet these challenges, the government has proposed extending the jurisdiction. The improvement is that courts can distribute cases more smoothly between themselves, so that the available capacity is used, and that there is more activity in each court. It will also facilitate the processing time. The national audit revealed that several smaller courts have free capacity up to 50 p.m. The fact that the Center Party does not want to solve this problem is no less than a little mystery for us. The courts within each new jurisdiction are led by one sordid writer. With this proposal, we want to get fewer troublemakers to run with administration and leadership and get more judges. It's also important to stress that we don't put up with a main court in each court, all the courts are equal, and the scapegoat is to be present at all the courts in the circuit. We need to be extremely clear: no court should go down, but we need to increase legal certainty, facilitate faster case management and increase the activity of district courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1731	I live on a peninsula with 25,000 inhabitants, and Fosen District Court is our court. The Court of Justice has five employees and is located in the Fosen warehouse in Brekstad. The protection of the Court of Justice includes eight municipalities. The Fosen District Court and the South Trøndelag District Court have had joint management since the summer of 2018. This was the first step on the road to closure, which we opposed. The Court of Justice has worked hard and focused on transforming itself into a situation of reduced resources, increased demands and new ways of working. The Court of Justice has gone from four to three case-treaters and, as a result of the difficult economy of the Court, there is a signal of a need for further reduction in staff by 2024. The case law delivers well, but there is every reason to worry about which services the court can deliver to the court-seeking audience in the future. Norwegian courts are European champions in efficiency and operate more reasonably than in countries with which it is natural to compare. The Norwegian courts also have a high level of confidence in the population, a situation that has been put to a high test with strong economic pressure and underfunding. The Labour Party is opposed to the Government and the Law Reform of the Advance Party and believes that there are other and better solutions. The Labour Party wants a modern and decentralised local court. We believe that the law can be made much more flexible, so that the courts can cooperate better and share competences and matters without making the proposed structural changes. It is directly irresponsible for the government to propose the closure of a number of independent courts in Norway without the consequences being investigated and without an analysis of alternatives. Nor has a socio-economic analysis been carried out or a concrete assessment of each individual right of way and right of change proposed and converted into a legal place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1746	Today, we are probably dealing with a reform that is not based on a need, but on the government and the strategy of the Progress Party to centralise everything they can. There is no doubt that the intention of this reform is as it has been. The police reform, the community reform and the regional reform, which are good examples of reforms that the government has forced through, and against the will of the people. What amazes me most in this matter is that when we stood in this room just six months ago and dealt with the same matter, the Progress Party made sure that the judicial reform was not adopted, and then the Progress Party clearly said that they would take all the courts against the government's plans for closure. The Legal Spokesman of the Advancement Party, Per-Willy Amundsen, was pleased and pleased to tell you about this at a press conference in June, together with, among others. The centre party. Now, all of a sudden, the Progress Party has taken a row and shows that they are nothing but a supporting party for the government. They now become heavy on the scale, which leads to the destruction of 37 dishes throughout the country. Why aren't local courts worth as much to the Progress Party as they were in June? What does the magnificent representative of the Troms Progress Party, Per-Willy Amundsen, think that courts also in his own county, Troms, are going to disappear? The Government and the proposals of the Advance Party will mean, inter alia: Senja District Court is set up as an independent court and is to be led by the sorenskreter in Tromsø, despite the massive resistance of several actors. The Regional Council of Mid-Throms has estimated that 40–45 jobs are at risk in the region if Senja district rights are laid down. The Troms police have written in a hearing opinion that they will consider moving the police lawyers from Senja to Tromsø if the District Court is dropped. Lawyers at Senja have warned that they will also have to move gradually towards Tromsø. When the government and the Advance Party talk about reforms, they forget one important thing: this is about people – it's about those who work in the courts, but it's at least as much about those who use the courts. Many of them are involved in matters of divorce or child sharing. It may be a matter of self-employed persons who are faced with a difficult civil case. Today, I am disappointed that the Progress Party gives its full support to this reform, and it only six months after Per-Willy Amundsen's representative stood and rejoiced that he had saved the property rights from closure. This testifies to the fact that the Progress Party is nothing but a supporting party for today's government. So fast it can turn, and I hope people notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1759	Even if you stand on this platform and repeat it wrong, that doesn't mean it's going to be something more true for that reason. The party of progress hasn't turned around. We have gone into a reform that is fundamentally different from the processes that were going on earlier in our day. That's our foundation. That's why we accept and have been in favour of this reform, precisely because we've had the chance to preserve the local courts, as in Senja. The problem is when representatives from the Central Party and others run around and give the impression that there should be no local court in Senja. Then it's no wonder that people get against it. But it doesn't do anything more true, and much of what comes from this pulpit today from the Workers' Party and the Center Party is directly wrong. But at one point they're right. There will be fewer sorenners in Norway in the future. That's right, but I can't believe that preserving as many leaders as possible on government pay is about district policy. Because that's what this boils down to. Now we've fundamentally proven that there won't be any local courts. We ensure local presence. We ensure that most people have good courts close by, and we make sure to codify that it is the Stortinget that has the last words. All of these things are in place. It's part of the reform. What's left over is that there's actually fewer leaders in the courts with government income. That's right. That's maybe exactly why we see that there are some, pretty loud, sordid writers who are out in the media and have very strong opinions about this, while the great, whole of Norway essentially supports the reform. When there is no argument, when they are rejected, as we have done in this debate – refuting that this will be an estimate against the districts but is compatible with good district policy – you do quite clearly what you use to do. If you can't win with arguments about politics, you attack the process, and that's exactly what half of the speeches from this pulpit have been about today. There are attacks on process – process, process, process – that it has not been well established, that several times it has not been treated well enough. There are a lot of claims that this is not well coated with the fact, and that there have not been proper investigations. Well, that's also repudiated. That is a well-founded basis for implementing this reform, and I am pleased that today there is a majority in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1768	No local courts shall be closed. The legal circles are expanding, and we're keeping all of today's houses and earth changes. There will be fewer sorrenists, but considerably more judges. With budgetary unity, the courts are strengthened financially by 40 million. kr extra, in addition to the government's original proposal. That means that the courts get a record boost of over 170 million. 2021, and the money will go to enhanced staffing, digitisation of the courts and further introduction of audio and video recordings in the courts. In the discussion at Stortinget, the government parties and the Progress Party have agreed on good clarifications to the proposal for new judicial reform. Core manning in small courts shall be maintained and any future changes to the court structure shall be submitted to the Board of Appeal. The Courts shall apply a further 40 million. kr to enhance manning and legal certainty through audio and video recordings. Norwegian courts work very well. Nevertheless, challenges have to be solved. It is difficult to recruit judges to small courts of jurisdiction; cases are often divided differently between city and country; time of trial and queues are longer in many of the courts, while there is no capacity in others; cases are decided differently from court to court; judges cannot specialize sufficiently, and many courts do not have a good enough court order. The sorenist in my region states to the local authority Lister on 3 December: "As it looks now, this can be a very positive. Now it's just about sitting down and figuring out how we can make the best use of it that we're now becoming a big unit. Specialisation groups, capacity utilisation shall also be continued.’;» I am pleased that in my region, the sorenner sees both the challenges in today's structure and the opportunities that the new structure will provide. Today's decision will ensure a robust and viable legal entity in my area now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1786	This is a heated debate, and I have always noticed that the Center Party and others who are on this page, both in this debate and in the past, have behaved quite realistically and smoothly and have not used such very strong words as the other party claims we are doing. I'm interpreting it as a rule technique against us. When our very relevant arguments – when it comes to both the content of the case and the way in which the process has been conducted – are met with ever-increasing claims that we are imprecise and use too strong words, I only take note of it and think that we might be concerned with something we argue for and against. What I want to do now is even more to address the confusion about the real issue, because the government party is so solid that this is not a problem – it's just to continue, run and get a decision done possible and to implement this reform. But what we have to stick to is that we actually had a proposal from the court commission, and there was a proposition from the government, and then there was a deal between the government party and the Progress Party. So there's still new things going on, and the deal's so fresh that we haven't had time to look at it properly. When we in this room today get the debt to make claims that aren't well thought out legally, the answer to what we're asking for is that the case needs to be given more time. We're forced to go deeper into the problem, which ignites a proper arrangement and not least that it should be listened to again. That is why we have put forward the proposal that the cases should be referred back to the committee. We also have a loose proposal, which will be voted on later, that we ask the government to come back with a case on the concrete assessment of the reform, concrete proposals, in line with the fact that there are quite a number of legislative changes that must take place before this reform can be implemented in practice, and not least before all the promises that have come from the Government Party and the Progress Party can be implemented in practice. For them there are more places not legal for now, etc. the promise that there will not be a main seat in the new, larger courts. All courts should actually be maintained, and then there should be no head seat, and then there is no room for it. It is actually necessary to make proposals for changes of promise before making such statements, in my view. What I want is for the State Council of Malta to explain to us more about why she thinks it is justified to make the changes we are being asked for today – the government party and the Progress Party have made proposals. I would simply like to have more thorough reviews from the House of Malta here today. If she thinks there is no need for a new round in the matter, we should at least get it explained today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1797	The map must be in line with the terrain. I know that as a former orientation, and so must the policy in Norway. In the Glamdalen in the Kongsvinger region, far south of Hedmark, today we have a dish that the inhabitants appreciate and know how to value. There is a region with significant crime and an absolute need for the presence of both the police and the judiciary. When dealing with the state budget, we're going to do a positive thing together in the Storting. We're going to make sure there's a Norwegian-Swedish police station on the border. This is an example of a wise policy that is based on the country we are, but with the District Court policy and the decommissioning policy that the right-wing government is leading here, we see an example of the very opposite. The reason why there's going to be closures over time is that right-wing government is only now removing local management. It's the heating number, and then the closures start rolling. We know that from experience. This has recently occurred in the Kongswinger region of prison. Bruvoll prison has lost local management and is now closed. In the North East Valley we have a dish with very competent management and skilled professionals. When it's claimed and created a picture from the right-wing government that there's no knowledge in smaller places, and that you don't have experience with big enough things, we can just go back to the history, you'll see that one of the most important property things that's ever been in Norway's history is from the Østerdalen, with the creation of Rena clay. The biggest soil change thing that's ever happened is originally from the Tynset. Another point is that to handle this precisely here, it is a great advantage to have historical knowledge of why communities have become like them. For example, if you are going to deal with property in Folldal or Dalsbygda, it is of great importance to know that there are communities that arose because of the mining environment. Obviously, we need a proper, sensible policy where the map is consistent with the terrain. Just when I was a young orientator, I got the responsibility to arrange the o-loop and managed to place one of the posts incorrectly. Then it's pretty hard for those who are going to attend, to figure out where to go. It doesn't have such a big impact that I send orientation runners at Tynset on a bomb trip, but sending Norway to bombard the policy of the legal state and the legal security of our citizens is extremely serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1815	I find it very disappointing and strange that serious parties such as the Right and the Advance Party cannot relate to the facts and try to say from the pulpit that no courts will be closed down with this reform, when they know just as well as the Central Party – and they have also admitted it – that a court is a place with its own jurisdiction. So when you put down as many legal circles as the Right now is going to do, with the support of the Advance Party, you put down independent courts. After this centralization reform that the Right Party and the Advance Party are now carrying out, there is no longer anything called South-Easterdal District, there is no longer anything called North-Easterdal District, there is no such thing as Hedmark District, nor Glamdal District Court, because they are closed. Then you can try to say that everything has to be the same as before because the courts have to pass. But that the Right has such an inability to understand that there is an important principleal debate when they are now about to put a line over hundreds of years of legal history by weakening the sour writing duty as an independent office, where it has its own meaning that the sour writer is in charge of his own court and is not subject to others, I think it is quite incredible. It is also completely ignored that this reform has been prepared for a long time by the establishment of joint management by the Court of Justice. For example, earlier in the autumn the Justice Committee received a letter from some who claimed to represent 27 small courts. If you look at who had signed that letter, it was among other things. said that the letter was from Halden district, it was from Sunnhordland district, and it was from Lofoten district in Svolvær. But this is, in fact, a letter from the janitors, who do not work at those places, but who sit in Haugesund, because Sunnhordland is subject to Haugesund, who sits in Fredrikstad, because Halden is subject to Fredrikstad, and who sits in Bodø, because Lofoten is already subject to Bodø. If you want to know what, for example. Keeping the right to object has actually meant, you have to go back to 2018. Then it was subjected to Fredrikstad by force, and the soren writer protested violently, precisely because one feared that one would be put down as a consequence of the introduction of common management. So you haven't just removed management, but you've removed the counter-sponsors, and the production that the government parties are trying to do here is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1824	The right has long worked to merge legal circles and have fewer tracts and fewer sorrenprinters. The Court of Justice, by its Chairman, Urke, has had a mandate to undermine the small courts. First of all, Right Peter Frølich has long argued that the structure of the district court is over-mature for aggregation. In earlier periods of ageing, the representative Frölich was stopped by the Christian People's Party, at today's leader, Ropstad. I remember well the only change that happened with Bergen's district, which was joined together, and that Eiker, Modum, Sigdal and Kongsberg's district got a joint scapegoat. Now the Christian People's Party is in government and must follow Right against its former will. The government has now brought the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party to centralize the judicial circles. For Buskerud, that means Hallingdal District Court, Ring Reich District Court and Kongsberg and Eiker District Court now become history. A vessel of the courts, Kongsberg, Hokksund, Hønefoss, and Nesbyen. They shall be manned, with so-called core activity. Hallingdal has already learned what it means – one has lost a position. The whole point of the Right is to collect the professionals in a few places. In Buskerud, it's in the Drammen. That makes sense, because the entire mandate for the investigation was that way. The term of office included: that you should collect the children's items in a few dishes, and the children's items may amount to 40 pst for smaller dishes. of the volume of work. It's been logic in everything from the start to where we've now come from. Of course, the Tuskedal of the Christian People's Party had difficulty responding when he said that one should strengthen the districts with competence and more tasks, because the whole point is the very opposite – the very opposite. It is sad that the Christian People's Party cannot take responsibility for what they are involved in and say as it is. They would have stood on that in their tradition. The representative, Frida Melvær from the Right, says that the Center Party is running a disinformation campaign. I think she should listen a little more to more voices. These include: a voice here in the hall to which I am listening very well, and that is the representative Tetzschner. The representative, Tetzschner, raised the question of the merger of Oslo byvogdembete and Oslo, and asked very critical questions about it – a very good point in relation to the behaviour of his party today. So to the State Council of Malta, which says there's going to be increased legal certainty for the whole country. That's wrong. Governments can't argue it through appeals, that there are multiple appeals in small District Courts. The Council of State also says that the proposal will lead to fewer leads and more judgments. No, the proposal is quite the opposite. There are more in administrative positions, because today's sorenprinters are both judges and administrators of their property rights, and they do so in a glittering way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1841	The party of progress and Strifeldt challenged me a little about this with the Sami. First, the Progress Party said quite early that they should ensure that there were no fewer leaders in the courts. I heard that and I expect them to still stand there. Then I want to say that I was in Hammerfest, and what Hammerfest was concerned about was that they were afraid that the lawyers – the few lawyers – they have in Hammerfest, did not find it advisable to be there anymore. But back to this that has to do with the Sami in it: there should be consultation obligations in such important matters as this. I was on the government's website and then. It says: ‘As an indigenous person, they have the right to be consulted on matters relating to them. The Government and the Assembly have concluded an agreement on procedures for the conduct of such consultations.’;» You haven't done this here. There have been no consultations, based on what I have been informed about from the Sameting. This confusion, which has arisen as a result of the urgency of the judicial reform, including its consequences for the Sami dimension in the court proceedings, clearly demonstrates the need for the case to be referred back for further investigation, consultation and clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1857	This debate is certainly a pretty good proof of why the Committee and the Storting should spend better time dealing with the matter. It was a short time from the government parties and the Progress Party agreed on a settlement, until the matter was debated in Stortinget. What we see now is that the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party say different things about the same thing, for example. as to who is to adopt amendments to the courts, tribunals and tribunals in the future. The left said in its post and in the reply box that it should be dealt with and debated in the Stortinget. The Christian People's Party said what the decision says, that it is the King who will decide, that is, the government. The right obviously understands what they're actually proposing, and the Progress Party says a little bit of each. It's some kind of law-enforcement Joker Nord. This shows that we should not only take time to determine better, but also that the government parties and the Progress Party were given time to read their own decisions. The representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt – who has posts after me, it fits well – said in a previous post that the Stortinget will now legislate that the Stortinget will decide that courts or District Courts are to be laid down, that power is transferred from bureaucrats and government to the Stortinget. It's just to open up on page 30 of the Justice Committee's configuration. There is the proposal that will be adopted after this debate. In proposal No 2 it says: ‘The division of the Kingdom into the jurisdiction of the courts shall be determined by the King. [[Legal Circuits]] Changes in the legal systems shall be submitted to the Grand total.» In proposal No 3 it says: ‘The King shall determine the place where the courts shall have their permanent courts. Changes in the permanent courts shall be made to the Grand Duchy.» So, government decides, Size is oriented, for example. by means of the budget proposal. There will be no case or decision in Stortinget. It is also a little strange that the Progress Party, with Strifeldt, is able to create uncertainty about what is happening to Inner Finnmark District Court. The representative said that it is wrong for Inner Finnmark to split or lay it down. Well, that's wrong: the changes that are happening now are going on, among other things. to move the Sami language management municipality of Porsanger to a Western District Court and the remaining Sami language management municipalities to an Eastern District Court. Following the proposal, Innere Finnmark's rights of property will not be passed on as a separate court. In summary, this clearly shows that it should have been back to the committee for consideration. The question then arises as to why it is so urgent for the government parties and the Progress Party to get this through. It's not time-critical, it's not for the sake of the budget. Well, after the Progress Party has done a complete turnaround since we did, I think the truth is that the reason for pushing through this here now is that the Right does not trust that the Progress Party will mean the same thing about the matter in January or February, as we have seen in other matters. It is a pity that the lack of trust between the government and the Progress Party leads the Storting to have to deal with the matter of the courts with such urgency.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1878	I've traveled a lot around my constituency of Finnmark and talked to, and not least listened to, local things about the challenges they have. The representative, Borch, claims that this is a reform that has not come in response to a need, but because of the government’s centralisation lever. I would like to make a call to the representatives of the Central Party, who often claim that they have spoken to people on their travels: try to listen too. It is likely that the Centre Party will also face the challenges of many district courts, i.e. the need for change, to which the reform largely responds. So I'll go a little bit further in terms of the Sami dimension. Here the Commission notes, among other things: that the design of the judicial structure of the future must be aimed at ensuring that cases of Sami interest are dealt with by judges and courts meeting the same high standards of quality as in other cases. The Commission points out that it requires knowledge of Sami and indigenous peoples' rights in the Court of Justice and knowledge of Sami languages and culture and the Sami communities. In the view of the Commission, it is a specific responsibility in the courts in the areas of Sami language and culture. This will now apply to the whole of East Finland and not only to the municipalities that were formerly under the Inner Finnmark District Court. The interior of Finnmark is neither split nor laid down, as some claim, but the Sami dimension is strengthened. In the future, no courts will be able to be closed without the Stortinge. With regard to Martin Henriksen, it's vocabulary from this pulpit. If Stortinget says no, courts will not be closed either. The whole thing claims they haven't been heard. The reality is that the Sameting chose not to put in the Committee's open hearing to promote its views. The fact that the Sami municipality of Porsanger is moved to West Finland, where it belongs naturally, is not a weakening of the law of union §3-4, but rather a strengthening of the Sami dimension. This means that the right to use Sami in the judiciary will be extended in West Finland. I have an understanding of the views of sorenists in court that are being expanded. It leads to fewer sorority writers, but more judges. So it's going to be less of a sorenist, which has to be more of a judge's function. But that's not the number of sorenprinters we're fighting for. We fight for legal certainty for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1893	I'm going to quote a little bit from the Smålen Newspaper on 19 May 2020, where it says, "full says to Inner Eastfold". Furthermore, you can read: «The government is defeated by the judicial reform. This is reflected in a joint press release from the Swedish Labour Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party. The four parties together form a majority on the Stortinget.’ It continues as follows: «In the past, the government has moderated the proposal and announced that all courts should be held but that courts should be merged. Thus, Heggen and Frøland District would be a sub-use to the District Court of Follo. This is not the case anyway." It says it's reading. The press release of the four parties reads: ‘The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left are warning us that we are opposed to the government’s proposal for reduced jurisdictions in the courts of the country, and will thus ensure that the independent District Courts and Land Change Rights are saved throughout the country. We ask the government not to implement the planned structural changes against the will of the majority of the population. The Government has announced that the courts of the districts would pass, but has sent, at the hearing, proposals to reduce today's jurisdictions from 69 to 22. We believe that this would mean a very uncertain future for our courts around the country, the loss of many competence jobs in the districts, and in the long run, warehouses that just remained as an empty place." That's what the Progress Party said on 19 May 2020, but now the pipe has got a different and new sound. With its wings and extremely imprecise actions, the party of progress makes sure that the Heggen and Frøland rules out the Wing for all practical purposes now. It's heading towards an empty room at Wyatt. It becomes a shell without daily content, without fixed workplaces. It is a major loss for Inner Eastfold in many ways, and it was guaranteed on 19 May 2020 from the Progress Party that this should not happen. Now it happens anyway. It's a wild loss from the Right and the Advance Party. This wallpaper for Inner Eastfold has been stamped and approved by the Progress Party with the political envoy we are now witnessing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1915	The decision now suspends the examination of the case No. 2 and 3 to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1927	The called alternate for Oslo, Kristoffer Robin Haug, is now taking his seat. The cancellation goes to voting on the remaining items on yesterday's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1941	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 3-5, from Morten Stordalen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 6-8, from Morten Stordalen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-8, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the national regulation on ferry tariffs so that all recreational vehicles that motor homes pay tariff category B2’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The size requests the Government to amend the AutoPass Regulation for ferry tariffs so that any recreational vehicle that a dwelling pays the AP1 tariff group.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary changes so that vehicle category M1 is included in pre-payment class 1 for the AutoPass ferry account’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e1977	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 3–5, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to amend the regulation on the one-off charge on motor vehicles § 2-5. A new general rule for the definition of a motor vehicle for the calculation of the one-off charge shall be that all vehicles supplied as construction vehicles and having type-approval as a motor vehicle shall be subject to such charging. A separate rule is established for vehicles registered in other categories of vehicles which are subsequently converted into a motor vehicle. Standard requirements and individual approval must be assumed in order to obtain such reclassification.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to facilitate the increase in the permissible total mass of motor vehicles by retrofitting parts carried out by other than the final manufacturer. Evidence from the equipment manufacturer and independent service shall be sufficient to permit increased total permissible weight.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to work to allow mobile homes of up to 4,25 tonnes with a category B licence.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a scheme to enable Norwegian registered mobile homes to be approved for the Danish Tempo 100 scheme in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2028	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-4, by Ingarill Olsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate how all 32 core ports and central freight ports can provide shore-side electricity to larger ships by 2025. In the long term, ports must also be able to offer other green energy carriers such as ammonia and hydrogen.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the combination of the electrification of port infrastructure with other renewable energy deployments, such as wind, water and solar power, on land and at sea.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure that shore-side electricity and charging power standards are developed in order to reduce costs and to improve the efficiency of laying time in ports.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to facilitate the decommissioning of tariffs as part of a new tariff model and to require the transmission company to make such an offer.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2062	The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2157	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2167	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2179	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Masud Gharahkhani, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No 3, from Wilfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centerpartiet the proposals No 4–6, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment Proposal No. 7 has been delivered after the deadline for tabling proposals and will not be taken up for voting. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘During 2020, the government is asked to provide a concrete figure on how many asylum seekers Norway will receive from Greece in 2021, based on the basic principle that Norway will lead the coalition of European countries contributing to legal certainty for the approximately 50,000 asylum seekers who have been prevented from moving from Greece.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the relocation of asylum seekers in Europe does not lead to Norway accepting fewer quota refugees via the UN, but to be added.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to withdraw instruction on the interpretation of Section 32 of the Foreign Affairs Act — Transfer of asylum seekers to Greece under the Dublin III Regulation and to process the asylum applications of the persons who have Greece as their first country of arrival in Norway.’ [[GI-07/2017]] The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2225	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate Norway’s acceptance, within the annual quota of 3000 refugees, of some of the most vulnerable children and vulnerable families with minor children from camps in Greece, under the following conditions: A broad range of European countries agrees on a reception agreement. Distribution is calculated according to population in the recipient countries. Norway accepts lone minors under the age of 15 without care in the camps, preferably girls. Norway accepts vulnerable families with minor children. Norway engages in dialogue with the United Nations to assess who are the most vulnerable within these groups.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2248	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit and implement a concrete plan for Norway’s international contribution to establish dignity and rights-based reception and asylum procedures in transit countries such as Greece. This involves quality assurance of asylum treatment, free legal assistance for vulnerable groups of asylum seekers, return work and reintegration of vulnerable groups.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2265	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase the number of quota refugees by 500 in 2021 and to develop quickly a plan to address the relocation of vulnerable asylum seekers with protection needs from Greece, and to present a concrete plan for the number of asylum seekers to receive Norway from Greece in 2021.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2293	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2312	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2440	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2451	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2465	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2477	Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2495	We are therefore going back to the debate in Case No. 2 and 3, and the first speaker is Siv Mossleth.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2500	Last autumn I visited the district court in Brønnøysund. It is over 100 years old and is the protection of all matters relating to the cancellation of documents. Now, over 100 years of legal certainty are in jeopardy. It seems that the right-wing government's grip and the failure of the Progress Party will lead to great uncertainty for Welley District Court, Alstahaug District Court, Lofoten District Court, the West Pole District Court, and perhaps even more. The Government Parties and the Advance Party are well aware that Nordland County expects the present structure to continue with respect to the rights of property and land change rights, and there is a real danger that the courts which are not the principal place of each court are now deprived, and thus in the short term will be perceived as second-ranking and at risk of being laid down. If there are people who doubt it, it's just to look at how the government parties and the Progress Party have dealt with the Nesna campus, for example. What we see now is probably a trick – or three – on the centralization screw. But I wonder, where are the representatives of the Nordic Party now? What about these courts, Freiberg and Sweets? Why aren't the Nordic courts worth as much to you now as they were when you helped secure the future for all the district courts and land change rights that are in the Nordic countries, earlier this year? It is worth asking if the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party of the North actually know their country. From Northland in the north to Northland in the south there is 51 miles in the airline. It takes eleven hours to drive a car. And then you have a ferry as well. It's actually as far as the farthest north of Uppland to the farthest south of Agder, just that in the south it takes nine hours to drive the distance by car, not eleven, and there are no ferries. In fact, Nordland is so big that we can put both Oslo, Westfold, Akershus, Eastfold, East Agder, West Agder and Rogaland into the North and still have area left over. And in a state like Nordland, representatives of the government parties and the Progress Party are in favour of a settlement that will centralize legal certainty in Northernland. You should also actively oppose the future use of the courts in negotiations on a single year's budget. Have you perhaps replaced legal certainty in Northernland with 20 kilometers of asphalt between Fauske and Ballangen?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2509	It's not the day to take up all the arguments and all the directions of this for us in the Center Party either, but I'll refer to the comments in the Committee's position, to our argument for why it's so important for us to keep up with all of these courts that we have, the 60 District Courts and the 34 Land Change Rights. There's a question on the subject that I want to raise, which Monica Mæland answered during the line change. Then I asked about the sorenprinters who are no longer going to be court leaders, could be charged with other jobs, and then the council replied that it was counting on her. But as far as I know, it applies now as it did in previous judicial reform. At that time, Professor of Labour Law Henning Jakhelln was asked, and he concluded that sorenists who were no longer in a new structure had no job obligations in the new, merged court, and that the state still had full pay. So you don't necessarily get 100 pst. position when a crash printer is deterred from its leader's function. It is within a residual percentage that they may be required to work. Today's troubleshooters at today's smaller district courts don't manage and lead and spend a lot of time on this, and they're not inefficient judges. As the representative Lundteg said instead, they are very effective in their doomsday work, it is competent people who manage their leadership well, on the basis that they are present. It's a quiet lease, which we're also debating here today, and that form of leadership is the best – the leaders who are together with their additions and who run the boat together with them. No will Meland and Co. introduce a new principle of joint management. One would like to say it like this. To date, there have been independent judges who have had a common leader. In the future, it sounds like there should be some sort of flamboyant lease, a whimsical joint lease, for the new, larger courts with several courts, there should be no main seat. The leader of the court shall not have a permanent meeting location. The scope of open office landscape has a completely new dimension. I want to remind you that this country is made up of large, large areas. My county, More and Romesdal, is big enough, but Nordland and Finnmark are even bigger. What I'm busy about is that we're protesting against a new system that allows leaders to relax between courts and be leaders so far that they're either spending all the time sitting in a headroom, or they're spending so much time and money chatting between them that they're not going to be effective at all. This is simply not a sensible scheme. Finally, I just want to make sure that I have taken up the proposal that the Central Party, the Labour Party and SV are behind the case. In addition, I would just like to say that we support – completely, completely subsidiaryly – the proposal from the Right and the Progress Party which deals with closer rules on the distribution of cases in the District Courts, including the distribution between the courts. Finally, I take that as a subsidiary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2530	Once again, the government has presented proposals to the Stortinget on strong centralisation – this time of the country's district courts. And once again, the proposal encounters strong opposition both from employees affected and from communities in many places in Norway. In a known style, government parties are trying to rethink, not in terms of new policies, but in terms of repackaging the message in a new way, just the same way as when you were going to centralize the police. It was then called a near-police reform. And now when you're going to centralize the district courts, today's message from the government parties and the supporting party Progress Party is that everything is going to be the same, the district courts are going to last, and there's practically nothing new going to happen, people won't notice any difference. Nevertheless, it is very important to implement a reform. Of course, it is not for believers. It is particularly interesting to follow the glide flight to the support party Progress Party, as for example in my county, Akershus, in our stand in front of the district court in the Constitutional District of Eidsvoll with the Norwegian flag and proclaimed that the district court was now saved. I can promise that the flag has not gone to the top of Eidsvoll since the settlement of the government parties and the support party of the Progress Party. I myself have been present at a meeting in Eidsvoll with the scapegoat writer present, the scapegoat writer who has tried to push the employees and the elected representatives in front of him in the rationale for this reform. The rapporteur, as a representative of the community, said directly back to the scapegoat at the meeting that he would have asked himself to be tried in such a way. The employees said that they were afraid of the jobs and what would happen when you got a common legal system. In the answer given by the soren writer at the hearing, he just describes the experience of the joint management of Upper Rome-rich rights already, that both for the employees and for the manager, there is a poor solution – less presence than before, more difficult to pursue. And what's the result now? Well, in addition, you're going to get Glamdal District Court, the court that's today in Kongswinger. It is extremely unwise to centralise from the majority here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2543	The debate today clearly shows that reality is different. So the Solberg government's proposal is that 52 of today's independent property rights and land change rights are to be abolished, and then they will miraculously come back – at least until further notice as new subdivisions. At the same time, the government parties, with the help of the Progress Party, assure that the number of courts will be maintained so that people will remain in court. No, the insurance is not worth that much. As the government itself writes: ‘If and at what pace judicial changes should take place, it will depend, inter alia, on leases, building standards, employment and case law.’;» The proposal has therefore reaped massive and justified criticism from those who fear that it will open up the administrative management of the merged courts to get free hands to move resources from the small courts in the districts. Longer distances, higher travel costs and more time use for both residents and businesses are a possible consequence of the party’s kneel downfall. What has now been agreed by the Right-wing Government and the Advance Party is a solution that terminates four of the independent district courts in Northern Ireland. As an example, the Vesterål district will become a branch with a main seat in Harstad. It considers that a comprehensive legal environment in the Western Balkans will significantly impair legal certainty for those living in the region. It's a warning it's worth listening to. The same applies, for example: of Ofoten. The National Auditorate wrote, among other things: the following in its report on the duration and effectiveness of the proceedings: ‘In the context of the preparation of new criminal law, it was examined whether criminal proceedings have become more complex and the working group could not be expected to do so.’ Rather than constructing problems and alternative solutions to excuse the massive abolition of property rights, the Right and Government should realise that closure is closure. The government should have followed up the National Audit Office's recommendations from the study in 2019 rather than turning it into a model that much resembles the regional reform and the near-police reform in another area. Protests by local authorities and county councils around the country, rapporteur's appeal with the support of rapporteurs, also from the Right, hearings, massive opposition from a number of sorrengers, judges, land change lawyers, employees, trust elected, business councils and not least lawyers are not taken into account. Unfortunately, the right-wing government with the support wheel The Progress Party continues with its plan to centralize the third state power without taking into account the protests of those who risk losing their right of way and their right to change. The centralisation is clear. With this proposal, along the trajectory of the flight train, there shall be four separate District Courts. There are as many proposed in Trondelag, Nordland and Troms together. The centre party totally disagrees with the Right Party and the Advance Party. People should notice that. This is about people's access to legal certainty in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2573	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2578	After the Progress Party was against the reform of ours, they are now defending the changes. But not just that: they're asking us not to believe what we can read with our own eyes. Not only does it apply to who is finally going to deal with changes in the legal systems; the representative Strifeldt also says that Inner Finnmark District is not being split up. The question is: When you move a part of the language management area to one district and the other part of the language management area to another district – which is not, therefore, the inner Finnmark district, which is not supposed to exist today – have you split up or not? It is quite arrogant of the Progress Party to say that they know better than the Association of Judges, the Assembly and the rapporteurs in the region, who strongly protest what they call the split. Finally, I just want to say that when the Right fractional leader or the Council of State does not care about participating in the debate with more than one post, that is indicative. I understand that you may need more than three minutes of speaking time to clear up the confusion that has arisen among the government parties and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2585	The representative Geir Adelsten Iversen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2590	It is rare that I agree with the Labour Party from the pulpit, but I fully agree with what was said in the previous article. As for the hearing that was in the Judicial Committee on 4 November, I do not know if the Sameting was there. But the proposal of the Progress Party was at least known at the beginning of December, and the Sametinge did not have a chance to express itself on the proposal that was at that time. So the whole thing hasn't been given an opportunity to comment on what we're now witnessing. That should definitely be done, and I hope that the matter will be postponed until the Sameting has been told.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2598	The centralisation of the districts is probably an elegant example of the right-leaded government using state power to centralize power and activity without professional support. The Government's assertions that the government's proposals will increase legal certainty for the whole country and give fewer leaders and more judges do not have a professional basis. This is ideology on the right hand side. The right-wing target line is and has been over many years that the rights of property are overly mature for centralisation. We have experienced it for a long time through the practice of the Administration of the Court of Justice with impaired staffing, which has provided uncertainty for recruiting skilled people, weakened financial frameworks and has held back new technological equipment in order to streamline the process. It's very hard to see this at close quarters. Director Urke of the Court's administration has performed in line with his board of directors and the government's long-term plan, and then the government came with its proposal to shut down both courts and courts after the Christian People's Party was pushed down. They used to have a completely different attitude in this matter. But the proposal was too radical. The grassroots struck too many curls, and the Progress Party said no in the first place. Then the Progress Party turns around. People notice that. The progress is not to be trusted in such matters – it doesn't mean that much about one end of one or the other. It was necessary to take a step back by centralizing the legal systems but retaining the courts. But the course is the same, and the representative Frülich will be able to confirm whether he takes the floor. Judges and private lawyers shall be further away from people outside the country. That's the consequence. There has been too little focus here on what happens to the private-practicing lawyers, who, of course, are largely attached to the sorencies of the district courts. The centralisation of the districts, i.e. the jurisdictions, is another thing that underpins the requirement that the central party must be strengthened in order to stop the completely unambiguous centralizing character of the state power, as it has today. It is very important that everyone now understands the nature of today's state power: it should not help the small and the weak, it should help the strong and the large and centralize economic activity. It is very important that there be a common understanding across the whole country. The centre party must work very hard to ensure that the state power has to be used for decentralisation – because it is wise and necessary. The rights and the associated private lawyers are part of the infrastructure of the State governed by law. That is why we stand on our point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2609	The representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2614	The representative Adelsten Iversen read earlier about the government's obligation to consult with Sametinget. That consultation obligation is probably implemented. Now it is the Stortinge that deals with the matter, and the Sametinge chose not to set up and promote its view when the committee had a hearing in the matter. The representative also mentioned Hammerfest and that you have to have a dish there to keep the lawyer stand in Hammerfest. Hammerfest has almost no lawyers left, but is largely served from Alta. The sorenist in Alta is today also the sorenist in Hammerfest. Even though there are two different jurisdictions, he is a janitor in both and has great challenges in communicating with his employees across the legal boundaries. The sorenist in Alta and Hammerfest districts now sees the possibility of strengthening the position of the district court in Hammerfest with a merger, but the centre party will therefore lay down jobs at Hammerfest districts and move them to Alta.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2621	It has been interesting to follow this debate beyond the day. I have noticed that most of the members of the Central Party Group have taken the floor – with one exception, and this is the representative of Liv Signe Navarsette from Sogn and Fjordane. When a reader reads the hearing opinion from Sogn and Fjordane on the matter of a new court structure, it may not be so strange. I allow myself to quote: «For Sogn and Fjordane, the Ministry's proposal does not imply any change in relation to today's district court structure. Since Sogn district court and Fjordane district court were merged in 2017 according to local agreement and initiative, the district court has had a main seat in Förde with a manna courthouse in Sogndal and an unmanned courthouse on Nordfjordeid. The ministry is proposing this, which we support. We believe that the Ministry’s proposal takes on an important regional dimension, by providing a good starting point for a stronger professional environment and better services in the districts.’ The Christian People's Party was clear that the proposal for a new court structure presented by then Justice Minister Jøran Kallmyr was not acceptable. After reviewing the matter again, the government concluded by proposing a model that is identical to the organisation of Sogn and Fjordane. So the conclusions of the typical districts of Sogn and Fjordane are clearly positive. The Central Party and the Workers' Party pre-conclude that this is going to be disastrous for District Norway. This is not the legal profession in Sogn and Fjordane. I think it might be wise to wait until one sees how the new court structure has worked for a while, before a drawer for bastant conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2635	I heard I was asked, but of course I had a strong desire to speak at the end of this debate, which has been long and committed. At first I would like to comment on this because you have had such terrible haste. It's been one year and two months since we were given a NOU. It was sent to a hearing in March, with a deadline in May, there were many hearing opinions, and then it is over two months since the Stortinget got the case. There is not so much urgency in my world, but I also thought that the word ‘hast’ had a different meaning when I was asked where the police report went all spring. We delivered it in June, and I did not think that it would remain in place until next year, in February, before it would actually be dealt with. Then there has been a lot of debate about police reform. In fact, I believe everyone in the opposition has commented on the police reform. I wasn't going to spend time on it, but since everyone has now done it, I just have to tell everyone who dreams back to a police like we had in 2010, 2011 and 2012, that I don't. I am very pleased with the police reform. I am very pleased with the increased quality, better methods, better systematics, more policemen, more police lawyers and lower levels of detention – but most importantly, to me is a police officer who takes children seriously. So while someone is now dreaming back to a police officer who was better at clearing up bicycle thefts than at solving child abuse, I'm not doing that, so that's what they say. So to the courts, which this case is really about. I hear from Lundtigen that we are completely without professional support. It's a dry diet, even from Lundtigen and the Center Party. A large majority of the courts want this. It's possible you don't think they're okay with what they're doing, but there can't be any doubt that a large majority in the courts wants this change. They believe that it improves legal certainty and improves quality. You may disagree, it's quite okay, but to say that this does not have professional support, I disagree very much. I also hear that the representative Klinge is asking for an answer, and then I just have to say: there has been a comprehensive NOU, which has been at the hearing, there has been a comprehensive proposition, the committee has had a hearing, I have sent a letter, I have sent a response to Document 8 proposals, I have provided an answer to questions, an answer in the post. There is no lack of response, there is a lack of willingness to hear, there is a lack of willingness to do anything. You're very satisfied with the situation. I hear a lot about what you don't want, but I haven't heard anything about what you actually want. I have not heard any ambitions to increase legal certainty; I have not heard any ambitions on behalf of the state of law. I think we should have higher ambitions than this. This is right, it's important for the courts, for the citizens and for everyone in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2648	This representative was also requested. Now let me just say that at least in this case, I am pleased that the representative Mossleth is a big-time politician and not a judge, for her story of what the Storting is about to adopt, would in that case be a judgment on as wrong premises as it is possible to have. When I read what's in the setting, I definitely don't know what's being debated and said in this room. It's going to be the opportunity to receive its judgment on Blackland in the West Pole, just as it is today. It's going to be in Harstad, it's going to be in Narvik, and so we can keep going. The representative pointed out that one has been visiting Brønnøy district court. That's good. Then you should actually have listened to what you say on Helgeland. In Helgeland, it's actually like you've had joint management, as an attempt. I do not feel that legal certainty has been threatened, or that the people of the north have suffered because they have been streamlined, as has been done through that trial project, and we also point out that we are doing in the reform now. I'm going to go home to Christmas with a lot of security that this isn't going to get worse for people. No one gets a longer journey. What people get are courts with a content that courts should have, and they get where they get it today. When I read the setting, it's actually what it says, and there can't be any doubt about it. No one has laid down, or is going to lay down, any courts as a result of what we are dealing with here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2661	I thought I'd sum up some of the recordings that came along in the debate. I think the most important thing to answer is this attack on the presidency, which I don't think belongs anywhere. The Presidency has taken a decision to reject an exceptionally long suspension of the case. They have agreed to a normal procedure. They have arranged for the majority in this Chamber to have the procedure they wish. In some of the committees it is uneven, but we have to have an assurance that if the majority in this Chamber wants a procedure, they will have the procedure they want. It is sound, and I have gone through it thoroughly earlier today. I want to challenge the representative Dag Terje Andersen, who is particularly critical in his mention of the presidency, among others. because this moment of alleged breach of constitutional practice came up in twelve hours. It's actually answered. The Ministry of Justice's law department has wise heads who say – as clearly as some ministerial staff can say – that this is not at all a team. If you don't believe in the Justice Department's law department and want to hear from others, it's actually no worse than being one phone call away from a law professor. I took that conversation, and he used words that are not suitable for this pulpit, in the mention of this theory that there should be some breach of constitutional custom. In summary, it's not nearby. Then the question is, should it be that immediately someone claims that there is a breach of constitutional practice, should there be a full stop, blow in the flute, the Storting shut down its work, and we postpone matters? It can't be like that. That is why I challenge the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, to come up to the pulpit and tell us clearly what conditions the Labour Party believes it is based on when you're dealing with constitutional practices. It doesn't have to be related to this question. When are we dealing with constitutional practice? And what past practice is there in this case that is going to make us close to facing a constitutional practice that requires a different procedure from what we've set up? I'm going to be the first to say that if we were in the vicinity of a doubt area, then we blow the whistle – then we say stop, because we're going to have great, great respect for the constitutional rules. But it is not possible to make statements that are so unfounded. It's not given one single argument for it. Nevertheless, it is said that the presidency has made a poor assessment when they have said that we should have normal treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2674	The representative, Lene Wagslid, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2679	I would like to have a better time. This debate is not about either – or. It's not like we're either going to have it just like today, or we're going to make a lot of changes. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Swedish Labour Party make a constructive proposal, supported by many hearing bodies, that the vulnerabilities that I believe are all present in the courts, as pointed out by the Court of Justice, can be met in other ways. The unwillingness to look at it can't tell me anything but that it's a purely ideological desire to make these structural changes, as many have been about today. I also hope that the representatives from the government party will consider voting for the loose proposal behind the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV. That would ensure a thorough treatment. And then I also hope on Thursday, when we vote on the release proposal, that one can consider sending the case back to the committee, so that we can do a real job.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2688	I have listened to this debate for quite a while now, and I am, I must say, a little surprised – it's a good thing to say from this pulpit – about the contradiction that is set out that either you are for this, or you don't have ambitions for legal certainty. I heard the council say it. There are several parties here in the Chamber who have put forward arrangements for better legal certainty, much better than the government. I have not seen that there has been any great commitment to legal certainty, for example. the fact that as few as possible have access to free legal aid as they do today. It's a very important part of legal certainty. I do not know about any party here that has no commitment to violence and to investigating it – perhaps even stronger than the government has. What we don't believe is this reorganisation. And why haven't I? It's probably also based on some of the experience we have from other reorganisations that both this government and other governments have done. There'll be a lot of bosses and nice drawn maps, but it's unfortunately rarely it gets so much better for the population. On the contrary, it is becoming more distant from the population. Then I just want to remind you that when we dealt with the district communication here not very long ago, SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre combined a proposal on a nearby state, that is, that we are now going to use modern technology to move things closer to people, stately important business. That's a wish we have, that's to think modern and new to be able to organize this in a different way. In that part of the county of Hedmark, which I choose to call it yet, as I feel most attached, there has been very great resistance to what is now proposed, among other things. from Glamdal District Court and from the Regional Council. It is also pointed out that this is a very important area because it is a large area that needs to deal with very much cross-border crime. It's clear that we're getting along, we're representatives of this area, also from the North East Valley, which I represent, that these are bad ways of reorganizing, which will weaken the offer, which will weaken the competence of these courts, and also weaken the professions that you need around. Now professional environments are gathered online, so there's no good reason why everyone should gather more physically than you need.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2699	This is an interesting debate. To the representative Karin Andersen: If she is concerned with fewer bosses, this must be a good reform. Because here it becomes less bosses and more judgmental force. I think it must be excellent if you have that concern in the entrance to this discussion. I have heard the Central Party talk about centralization up and down and down – not only in this matter, but in all other matters as well, more or less. But where is the centralisation of this judicial reform? I just don't get it. I can count on my own court. With regard to the proposals that lie here, I assume that the minority proposals from the Right and the Progressive Party will have a majority when we vote against them. We're increasing the size of the judicial circuit, which in More and Romesdal will be the Mora and Romesdal district, but at the same time we're going to maintain the court in Volda, it's going to be in Ålesund, it's going to be in Mold, and it's going to be in Kristiansund. Thus, the patent must be present where it is present today. In addition, there is a clear proposal here as regards the number of annual work relating to the core activity: where there are four permanent years or less, crews should at least be continued, it should not be reduced. That means that both in Volda, in Molde and in Kristiansund the crew will be at the same level as today. So I don't understand where the centralization of this court reform is. I just don't understand. Here we are to maintain the courts where they are, maintain the professional environments where they are, and we may need to facilitate better coordination and increased specialisation where that is the basis, and we can also make better use of the resources within this jurisdiction. This means, in practice, that if there is available capacity in Kristiansund or in Volda or in Molde, for that matter, you will be able to put things into practice and use the capacity better – that is, increase activity, not less activity. I think it must be in the best interests of everyone if you get better use of the resources, because it could help you get a shorter waiting time and get your case dealt with faster than what you are doing today. So how this can contribute to centralization, would someone try to solve for me? It's not just useful to talk about centralization and breathing out when it's time for those degrees that it's not going to happen. The courts are continued where they are, the crew will be there, and you might get a faster procedure. I also think that there will be better coordination and equal treatment, which will be good for legal certainty. So I fully support this. I think this will be a good reform, and I think it will strengthen the courts, at least in the region from which I come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2719	Given the last representative, who could not understand how anyone could believe that what is happening today is going to lead to a centralization, I think I can take the brief explanation of that matter, and that is that people across the country have completely lost faith in the right-wing government. Where they say they don't want to centralize, the practical policy shows that what's happening is quite different from what they say they're doing. When I asked for the floor, it was to give an answer to the representative Freiberg. It is actually such that Brønnø District Court has sent out concerns about what is now happening. It has happened in advance of this process, and it has been sent in the form of letters, along with other dishes. So I don't think the Freiberg representative is orientated. That's actually how the Center Party listens to what's being said to us. The Center Party believes that there are long enough distances for children, families, and experts. We believe that there is enough centralisation of services, there is enough centralisation of jobs, there is enough centralisation of the legal environments, and there is enough centralisation of co-judges. There are a number of unresolved aspects of the proposal that are behind the Government Parties and the Advance Party. I would like to refer to a letter from a number of dishes, including: Ofoten District Court, which has been sent to the Presidentship of the Stortingen and to the Judiciary Committee. I request that this letter be read carefully and taken into account further.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2730	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2735	The Council of State maintains that centralisation has provided increased legal certainty for the whole country. I stick to my statement that there is no professional basis for that. Why do I say that? Well, because there's not relatively more appeals in small dish than in larger ones. Small court-martials have not ruled out judges who are professionally worse than the larger court-martials. The opinions of the Council of State are indignant to many hard-working, professionally skilled sorenists, among others. in Buskerud. The Council of State is trying to create a sense of reality that smaller District Courts are professionally weaker. It's not cover for it. There is no coverage to repeat and repeat that the reform will lead to an increase in legal certainty across the country, as if the small rights do a bad job. That's not the situation. There's a lot of good sore writers around the country doing a precise and good job. One looks at the appeals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2742	I had to take the floor because I was challenged by the representative Frølich, whom I thought had a very strange approach to parliamentary work. It was really pretty revealing, what he said. He tried to defend the majority of Storting's presidency. I have to remind you that there is a divided presidency here. Some show responsibility. But he defended the majority by saying that they've done the job they're going to do: they've made sure that what the majority wants is treated now. No, it's something in the Storting's way of dealing with issues that require a certain respect for minorities, perhaps the smallest of them in particular. We must respect the fact that there can be new information in a case, which may require more detailed procedures. That is why we have Section 23 of the Rules of Procedure – not because the presidency is going to run the government's errand and get things pushed through quickly. In this case, it is very relevant, as far as I am aware, that the agreement underpinning the bill that is being dealt with here now entered into the vote on the correction on the evening of 1 December. That is the time given to the Committee to consider that matter. It is the same day that the President of the United Kingdom sends letters to the college, on the basis of the enquiry they have received from Ofoten District Court, and writes that it is natural that constitutional questions and relations with the investigation instruction, which is addressed in the enquiry, are assessed by the Judicial Committee in the context of the examination of the proposal. But that's not what they've been given. That is why the Justice Committee is asking for, and I would recommend, as much as I can, that the Stortinget give the Judicial Committee the opportunity to assess both the constitutional implications – whether or not the case is well investigated – and for example. to have a hearing on the actual proposal currently under consideration in the Grand Duchy. It's been known since December 1st, and to the Council of State: that's why someone said there hasn't been a long treatment period. It is quite a short time since the specific proposal was discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2749	To comment on Mr. Dag Terje Andersen's comments briefly: I think it is very nice that the presidency sometimes intervenes and protects the rights of the minority, but here a minority has tried, quite unfairly, to define this as an urgent procedure, when it is a perfectly normal and just treatment. I think it is right for the majority in this Chamber to have their will, in a very normal procedure within the committee. There have been a lot of mistakes that have been said from the pulpit here. I react to the fact that it is so easy to just lie off one untruth after another. I feel the need for an almost continuous fact-finding. It's possible to say e.g. that there is a large-scale centralisation here, when it is specifically stated in the case that it will not happen. It's possible to say that the courts are hungry. They'll get $170 million. kr more next year. It's the biggest increase in any court budget in modern history. So there's something here that's not related. The representative Borch said that it was dealing with the court reform in ours, and that it has been a reverse operation now. No, there was no court reform process in our house. So everything's freshened up. It has been said that the district court in Wyatt is being laid down. No, it doesn't. A text message to the Court of Justice will show that it does not result in any correctness. Then you're informed about it. These kinds of claims have come over and over again throughout the debate. It's a little bit exhausting. I just have to admit it. One thing is that it's wrong, but it's also a confusion that's most likely created by the opposition itself. It's not necessary, it doesn't have to be like this. The last one that was out was the representative Lundtigen, who thought that now the lawyers were going to disappear. Here someone has to explain the logic to me. The fact that there will be a common janitor for several houses of things means that the lawyers just suspect that they're moving away – when the activity is the same, when the warehouses are open, when the cases go as before and many places might want to increase in number, because for the first time you can move things out of cities and into district courts? It makes no sense just to make a loose claim that the legal environments will thus smell. You have to justify it better than that. I think the highlight of the debate was when it was said that now we had to listen to the Justice Association when it was the situation in Finnmark. The solution in Finnmark may have different aspects to which the judges' association and others will be critical, but help me – it is a little late to come and say that we should listen to the Judges' Association now, when they have for three years tried to convince politicians in this Chamber that there is now a time for judicial reform. Now we finally get it, and we'll be happy for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2764	It has been a long day and a long debate, and it deserves this matter. It was in and of itself Lundtigen's posts that made me take the word again. So first it was claimed that there is no technical support for the reform. Then I just have to say that you have not read a single document in the case – but now leave it. What was more outrageous was to be accused that I – when I argued for increased legal certainty – had set up large and small District Courts against each other. I've never done that, not in a single word. On the contrary, I said in my main post that there was no reason to believe that the smaller things were worse than the larger ones – no reason to believe it. But what I've said, if you were interested in listening to what I'm actually saying, is that we get fewer sorority writers, that is, leaders. Then we get more judges, we get down the trial period, and we get bigger units, which make it easier to push skills up. It provides increased legal certainty for everyone. You might disagree, but it does without a doubt. The trial period is one of the main criticisms of the Riksrevisionen side, and something that we are trying to do in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2771	The representative Frølich is still trying to suggest an image of the future existence of a dish that will disappear with this decision. For example, I think the representative Frölich should take a trip to my neighbourhood in Rome and in the lower part of the Glåmdalen. In Glamdalen has a separate dish today. With this decision it will no longer be a separate right of way, it will be part of Rome's rich right of way, where one will get a common area from Finnskogen to Lørenskog. That is the reality. Then one today in Rome has tried with a system in which one has had a common administration for Upper Rome and Lower Rome-rich districts. The law itself and the soren writer describe the experience with it. I can well read out what is in the letter of hearing from the tribunal: ‘Our experience of joint management for 10 months is that this is not a satisfactory solution for either the employees or the manager. Employees experience that the sorenner is less present than before, which is negative both in the daily and in the culture of the court. The sorenist experiences that he does not have enough time in one place or the other. This is further reinforced where the sorenprinter shall be the head of more than two courts. Therefore, as we see it, co-location should be the general rule.’ So this is the response from the district court. Their ambition and their drive will continue to be centralisation, and the experience of having a filthwriter who in this case will be the filthwriter for two courts, and who in the future will be responsible for one more, is that it is both bad for the manager and bad for the employees. One gets responsibility for an even larger area than today. It is a very unwise policy. Therefore, one should think again before voting – whether the Progress Party should continue to be a pure support party for the government, for their centralisation policy, or whether they will actually support the policies that people and employees around Norway want. Unfortunately, it is probably the role of a supporting party that you lean on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2783	State Council of Malta said instead that she had not heard any ambitions on behalf of the rule of law from us in the Central Party in this debate and in the process that has been the last weeks. Building on something that's good, that gives world class legal certainty, as we have it here to land, is to have ambitions. What we've been doing for years is digitizing all the courts. It's about an improvement and a strengthening of our legal system. We have put forward in our proposal to the government budget for next year proposals that we will strengthen all one-judgment officials with a fixed sentence in addition. We've also been in favour of, for example. new premises for the Molde District Court, because we've been meaning that he will survive, just as we want to ensure good legal space in the rest of the country – because we've had an ambition to maintain these and make them even better for the future. So it's a debt not to have ambitions on behalf of the state of law -- I just don't take it on behalf of the Center Party. Then there are several things that are worth mentioning here. Now it's coming to the end of the debate, and we're going to keep arguing in the media, I'm going to believe, the next few days, but I don't accept the message from the police, that we haven't been able to finish it, and that we had so much time in her. For the reason that she was postponed, it is precisely that this case of the court structure came in and made it impossible for us in the committee to get away from the police notice before Christmas. There are a lot of different elements in this case that we could have discussed until we were blue, but what I think is worth basing on, is that if you're busy with the rule of law and legal services near people and maintaining the legal environment throughout the country, it's tied to independent courts. If we turn independent courts into independent courts, which no longer have their own stately leaders who can fight with beaks and claws for exactly the court that was there before, there has a completely different starting point for the future than one has when one has independent courts, which we've had an ambition to maintain. So my last point is actually that: that there's a value in having independent courts. We want to maintain these 60 independent things and 34 independent land change rights for the future. Now the majority is in favour of something else, but I hope and believe that it will be possible to reverse everything that is possible to reverse in this reform, in favour of a good legal state in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2796	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2801	I thought I would be allowed to congratulate the Centre Party and the Workers' Party on the success of postponing the case. That's what you're getting right now. That's probably only for two days, but it's because the Central Party's group has been up on this pulpit a lot and made false accusations in the matter. I need to refute all of these unfounded claims that have emerged. But I also need to say: the Progress Party does not support this case because we are a so-called support party for the government. The Progress Party is a party in opposition, seeking solutions where it is possible to do so, and this is just an example of it: a reform that provides better legal certainty, which ensures that we have local courts across the country, for the benefit of the population – for the most part for the benefit of the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2808	I just want to thank you for a good debate. There has been a tough debate, and there have been some accusations, both before and during the hall today. But I think we all share one ambition for the courts, and that's that they should have high trust. That's something we're all interested in. Then I need to say something about the court administration, which has got a lot of pepper from the pulpit here today. They've been acting out professionally throughout this process, and they have a difficult problem ahead of them now. They shall implement a reform that has been unpopular. I feel a strong need just to say that they have stood, with straight back, at their professional positions, but also demonstrated great flexibility in meeting with us when we have wanted to find compromises that at the same time preserve the integrity of the court. So it's a responsibility I know they're taking seriously, and I think we all have a responsibility to make sure that they succeed, no matter what you think about whether we're going to have a court reform or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2816	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2833	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2850	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2867	At the request of the Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2874	............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would first like to take advantage of the opportunity to refer to the position, thank the Committee for its close cooperation for a time and take note of the fact that the content of the arrangement we are discussing today is also managed by the Financial Committee. And I'm making, for the sake of order, the suggestions SV is in, already right now. We're in a serious situation. We're inside wave number two of a pandemic. We have put in place a series of interventional measures that have a major impact on children, young people, the elderly, workers and businesses. The whole of society is being framed by the situation we're in right now. It was just to be lacking that the state did not set up in such a situation. We also see this all over the world. The states are setting up as best they can. Those who don't have a lot of money on the book are taking up huge loans to help people and industries over their knees. For everyone know that the option - bankruptcies and a wave of unemployment - is much worse. It is much more expensive for both people, society and economy, so a strong effort now to prevent unnecessary suffering is therefore much better for absolutely everyone. Because the pandemic is going over. The intervention measures will be terminated. We're going to go back to some kind of normal state. But what kind of state are we going back to? How are the people after this – the one who lived on a part-time job at the hotel, but who is now unemployed, the one who financed the study by working at the restaurant, the one who lived as a taxi driver? And what's the structure of nutrition in Norway going to look like? Who is left when the dust after the pandemic has settled? That is what we are discussing today. How can we, as a state, prevent the worst outcomes from happening? The government has submitted its proposals. They have received support from their Advance Party to implement these things. To this we can say that there is too little support – here is the fixed, unavoidable expenditure. That means there's some expenses you get covered, and a lot of people don't get covered. Yesterday I had a tour of the outdoor industry here in Oslo. There were places that didn't get any support in any area, some that got about 20 pst. Of the expenses covered, and the ones that got the most in the round we had in about ten different companies, got about 40 pst. So the fixed, unavoidable costs are just some of the costs, and too many of them are very small. Take, for example: leasing. If you have a leased inventory on a patio, you get a cover it costs to rent it. But if you've invested yourself in both inventory and even construction, you're not going to cover your expenses. It turns out very uneven and puts people in a very difficult situation. One has concentrated on fixed, unavoidable costs, not on lost turnover, as we propose in this proposal. That is the case in the turnover country to cover. That's the real expression of what you've lost, not a fixed, inevitable expense. We also propose wage compensation in this scheme. It is obvious that wages have a lot to say for the expenses they have. So it's too small. And it's too late. Here's a sure there's going to be another wave. The whole community has prepared for a new wave as it approaches winter – except for the government, which suddenly when this happened, rises around and even change the actor from the tax base to the Brønn Island Sun Registra, who was not at all rigged for this kind of task, which means that payments will only happen in January, perhaps even later than that. Only by itself could people end up in an acute crisis. And it's too short. So here's a time limit that doesn't have to be associated with how long the intervention is going to last. Why can there not be a link between measures and measures to protect the infection, i.e. there should be a compensation scheme as long as there is intervention? It's not, and thus creates uncertainty for the actors. There are no social demands here either. This means that, for example: Those who own the big curtains, rent them out and think quite well about this, and have no uncertain time to wait, can quickly take out dividends. This could have been a requirement, as one has made in other countries. There's a demand for that kind of thing, so this goes to the system. There's a lot to do here, and if there's going to be a lot of bankruptcy, there may be a lot of unnecessary action from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2899	The representative of Torgeir Knag County has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2904	When the committee started examining this matter, the government parties tried to present it as if this were just a pro formas, a matter in which we were going to transfer tasks from the tax base to the Brønnøysund registers, and that it was only paragraphs. But that's not it. This is a serious matter for companies that now experience being in a situation where the crisis is hitting them hard. This is a bill that basically creates a framework for how we think about the scheme that we're going to help and help businesses in a difficult time. Behind these paragraphs and behind this move there are people, people who may have their whole life's work associated with it, and not least there are ordinary workers who are insecure on the basis of their job, just behind these paragraphs. It's a rather serious matter, because the most important thing done from the past arrangement to now is to move from the tax rate to the Brønn Island Health Registers, with the direct consequence that one cannot pay money before January, perhaps in February, at a time when the companies need it now. The liquidity crisis out there does not resolve the billing proposition. Nor has the government taken into account that they should be able to cope with the situation with the background of the move that is. As early as June, the government was aware that it was going to be a challenge if the tax rate were to continue that task, even though the tax rate might be the best. Now is the task of the Brønnøsund Registers, but what happens on the road that they are ready to pay out? Well, then businesses are going to go all over again. Businesses are going to go bankrupt, and people are going to lose their job. There is a lack of understanding of the crisis, there is a lack of crisis management, and there is a lack of – to say – understanding of how the working world actually stands. In this treatment we have tried to solve some of the challenges that are there. One is the enterprises that are also affected by local infectious diseases and infectious diseases measures that have been introduced because we are in a national state of crisis. It doesn't take the government into account. They say they just get to follow the ordinary, even though they're much harder hit and for many practical purposes actually physically shut down or almost shut down. If they are to be compensated in the ordinary arrangement proposed by the government, they are very poorly compensated. In addition, liquidity is now the main problem for very many. We have tried, through one of our proposals, to facilitate that one can at least get a guarantee for a 100 pst loan, a government loan guarantee. The Germans have done that, just to bring liquidity into businesses in a crisis situation where they need liquidity, but here it's just no. This is problematic in terms of ESA, says the government, but Germany has done so, so it must be allowed for Norway to do so too. It is appropriate to test precisely to improve the liquidity situation. In addition, we have a number of other suggestions that maybe we should also now think about getting more activity into the compensation scheme than being passive, if it's possible to include some compensation of employees in this, make sure that it's activity instead of being passive. But what's the answer from the right hand side? No, they don't want to do that. They reject it, they vote against it. So we say, maybe we can take a little lesson now, that as long as we have either national or local infectious diseases and measures affecting businesses, we should have financial measures up against them. But what do the right parties say? No, they won't. They will not follow up on measures to prevent infection by means of financial measures. Understand the one who can. What's the main problem now? It is that one has not realized before, that infectious and economic measures against the holdings must be followed. That's the main problem. Then we include in a proposal for a change of laws that we believe that bonuses should not be paid to executives at a time when they are asking for public and community support, rather that an increase in management salaries or board fees should be charged. But what do those same parties also say? No, they don't want to do that, they don't want to contribute to that virtue. There are a lot of things that are related to this matter that are extremely problematic, and that should have been tried in the time we are in now. It is completely incomprehensible, in my opinion, that the government parties, together with the Progress Party, do not want to do so. At the end of the day, I would like to address the proposals that the Labour Party is in which not everything has been taken up, and at the same time explain that if our proposal No. 11, which has been promoted as a loose proposal, should fall, I hope we can have the opportunity to vote subsidiaryly for the proposals No. 6, 7 and 8, from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2927	The representative of Terje Aasland has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2932	Well, that's a bill proposition we're going to deal with today. It's sad to experience such a knowledgeable representative as Aasland standing here on the pulpit and saying that we're dealing with something other than what we're really doing. This is a temporary grant scheme for large-scale enterprises after August. The size has now been invited to adopt a legislative amendment, from the fact that the tax base has previously managed the grant scheme to be managed by the Brønnøsund Registers. The budgetary implications and the financial framework for the scheme were presented in Prop. 1 S Appendix 1 for 2020-2021. The supplementary number was included in the plenary session last Thursday as part of the financial statement, and next Saturday the Economic and Social Committee and the Stortinget will debate the various appropriations. I welcome the agreement negotiated between the government parties and the Progress Party, in which they support the strong measures put forward by the government. These measures are targeted at the health sector, compensation to municipalities and businesses, support to vulnerable groups and the extension of income protection schemes. Since March, the Government has made a number of proposals for action in response to the outbreak of the virus, but also new measures aimed at certain industries that are still hard hit. In the proposition that was discussed last Thursday, it was proposed to extend as well as to adapt existing schemes, because the way out of the crisis is about creating more and including more. We need to create new jobs and get people back to work. Therefore, it is important that we facilitate activity, innovation and transformation. Otherwise, I will not spend so much time debating a matter that has just been debated and dealt with here in Stortinget. As I said, what we're dealing with in this proposition is the legal law on the compensation scheme. The government has worked closely with the business partners on the design of the scheme and that there has been dialogue with the tax haven, the Brønnøysund registers, the Auditor's Association and the Accounting Norway along the way. In this case, we relate to the fact that the administration of the scheme is now changing from the tax rate of the Brønnøsund Registers. It is therefore proposed that the Administrative Act be the basis of the procedure rather than of the tax legislation. Paragraph 3 of the Act states that the Brønnøysund Registers are to be a grant authority, responsible for the management of the temporary grant scheme. Furthermore, the Administrative Act Chapter VI, on complaint, will apply, which means that the time limit for complaint is three weeks, compared to the previous six weeks when the scheme was under the Tax Administration Act. Furthermore, the proposal deals with provisions on applications for grants and disclosure obligations. It also deals with the conditions for receiving grants referred to in Section 5 and the description that the Brønnøysund registries as the new administrator may obtain information necessary to process applications for grants and subsequent controls. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this Act has introduced its own provisions on the publication of information and documents in Section 9. Without prejudice to professional secrecy, the grant authority may make information on grants, including the calculation basis and the amount of the grant, available on the Internet for general supervision. There is a new big task that has been added here to the Brønnøsund registers, and that we from the government parties and the Progress Party have great confidence that they will be able to handle. It is important that the scheme is put in place as soon as possible and that the scheme is searchable throughout the new year, followed by rapid payments. This is important for enterprises that are heavily affected by large income losses due to the coronary apathy. I know that we're working on bombing in Brønnøysund to put in place a system to ensure a rapid and secure payment to companies that are in crisis. We all want to put in place early arrangements for payments to firms in difficulty. I remember in ours, when Storting's good intentions to secure more money for the affected workers resulted in the opposite – payments were delayed and instead put the employees in greater economic difficulties than following up what was the Storting intention. I should have liked the Minister of Industry to have explained a little about the proposals that came from the Workers' Party here. Is it possible to speed up the payment of aid to enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2953	When the Progress Party reached agreement with the government parties on strengthening the grant scheme, it was in order to increase predictability and security for Norwegian enterprises in an extremely difficult situation. We know that the situation for many is worse now than before, because many are sitting on smaller reserves and less to eat. Therefore, it was important to improve the scheme in relation to the previous scheme by increasing both the level of compensation and the level of grants. For the Progress Party, it was particularly important to achieve significant improvements for the event industry. It is the very ecosystem of the cultural sector. It's the ones that make things happen on scenes all over the country. They make sure that scenes are rigged and that they are arranged with light and sound for concerts and other performances. In short, it is those who keep Culture Norway going and make sure that everything is right for the audience to have memorable experiences. Most in this sector are outsourced. Therefore, it was important for us to stress that the exact industry is included in the scheme and that the scheme should be adapted to the enterprises in question. At the same time as the event industry wears off, the government provides generous arrangements for other parts of the cultural industry. At the latest today, Minister of Culture Abid Raja was out and announced new millions for cultural purposes. It may seem that certain parts of Culture-Norway are very good at generous grants. For example, Kurt Nilsen got 13 million. kr in compensation for his Christmas tour. Billionaire Petter Stordalen is the largest owner of the companies behind the tour, according to the press. So some people get more salt on the porridge. It is directly unmusical that the state provides such support to artists who usually have millions of income and who are also supported by Norway's richest men. I'll give you a little explanation of vote. The Labour Party promotes two loose proposals in this matter. In any case, the second proposal is covered by the general compensation scheme applicable to all sectors and is redundant. The first proposal is heard in a fine way, but it cannot be implemented. It requires the approval of ESA, which makes it unrealistic to put in place a new system in a short time. ESA currently has 68 Norwegian treatment schemes, including the compensation scheme we are discussing here. The Workers' Party's proposal also requires a change in the law, because it is a basic requirement in the Law of Loan Guarantee Schemes that the loans should be partially State-guaranteed. You need 100 pst. State guarantee, as proposed, must be amended by the law. Therefore, the Progress Party will not vote in favour of the first proposal either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2970	The pandemic has hit workers and businesses all over Norway hard. What was particularly demanding in ours, when we had broad agreements, was that it came so quickly, and it was vital to implement powerful measures. The size provided for a strengthening of the measures taken by the government in a number of areas – both better income protection for workers, better compensation schemes for enterprises and a separate scheme for self-employed and freelancers. What's particularly serious now in round two is that many companies in our company tried as best they could get through the first stage and thought that once we've got through this, we hope that maybe it'll get a little bit better for the harvest, that we can take back a little bit of the lost. But then there comes a new wave, and then one soon has no reserve left, one is already completely on the rim. In this case, it is particularly important that action against those who are hard hit should be taken even more quickly. To what has been so much in terms of the payment of aid and who will be responsible for it: In the spring we did not have the experience of a compensation scheme, but when it was established, in cooperation between the social partners, the government and the magnificence, acted quickly when a decision was taken in Stortinget on 7 April. The payments started within two weeks. Now one has had a compensation scheme for well over half a year. One has experience with it, and one received feedback from the tax bill before the summer that it could be demanding for them to continue to manage the scheme. Nevertheless, one had not prepared to have a model and a solution ready to push the button when there was a new round of spread of infection, new closures and the need for rapid financial action against workers and businesses. It is very unwise that you have not taken care of it. That's why it's incredibly important, and we've thought from the Central Party that it would make sense to see if the tax rate could still be responsible for the mission, that a tax rate that might have been introduced more resources. But when it is the government that is responsible for the practical implementation, yes, one must at least ensure a practical implementation that enables the companies that are hard hit to get help quickly. Therefore, there is also a need for immediate action that can save companies that are at risk of going bankrupt now. Another thing – in addition to who is responsible for the payments – is that the scheme we established in ours also did not recognise the government as being good enough, because it had to be established quickly, and cover a number of areas, such as the relationship between leasing and owning. If you lease, you will be paid the costs associated with it, but if you own it, you will not be paid off and amortised. There is a clear unfairness in the arrangement, which, of course, becomes even worse when the arrangement is to be extended over time, with the biases that are there. It is similar to the fact that one did not make sure to include compensation of employees from the beginning. It was because it was important to get the system up and up quickly, but now the government has had month after month to be able to work on those questions. There is only one area in this scheme that deviates from the scheme that you initially had, and that is that the proportion that was there is fortunately no longer present. As to what kind of costs are covered, there is no change. To the representative of Strifeldt, who talks about having been involved in the event industry: no, the event industry is not better cared for by this scheme. On the contrary, they have a cost structure that makes them need to cover determined costs other than those initially incurred, which means that there is no 70 or 85 pst. Coverage, which one stands here and boasts, but maybe 15-20 pst. coverage. This is also true of other hard hit industries, both in the outdoor and restaurant industries. Therefore, there is a need to change the device in the system, and immediate action is needed. Just cards to the Workers' Party's proposal: We think it is wrong now to differentiate between what kind of measures it has been. Whether an enterprise has been hit hard, and whether it is due to local or national measures, or because tourists do not come – the point is that one is hit hard, and then all have to be treated equally.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e2987	The Korona crisis is hitting many businesses hard, especially in the tourism, restaurant and overnight industries. There are many small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for an enormously important part of the creation of value in everyday business, which are struggling very hard. It is people's work of life, people's jobs and our common well-being that is at stake. That is why I am pleased that Norway has good support arrangements for the companies. The use of tripartite cooperation in the development of aid schemes leads to a balance between different considerations when designing crisis packages. Tripartite cooperation is a clear strength both for Norwegian business and for society in general. A good crisis package has been adjusted by the majority on Stortinget and has become even better. It is proposed to increase the degree of compensation in the scheme so that the compensation rate is 70 pst, respectively. in September and October 2020, 85 p.m. in November and December 2020 and 80 pst. in January and February 2021. At the same time, the maximum aid per enterprise/group per calendar month is increased to 80 million. kr. This increases predictability and safety for Norwegian farms at a time when infection rates are disturbing. A crisis like the one we're up to now is tough even if you get help to survive. The fact that the aid has been granted to enterprises has worked is seen in the number of bankruptcies in 2020. One should expect that the figures are sky high in such a situation, but in many industries the number of bankruptcies is lower than normal. It is important to ensure that viable businesses do not go bankrupt, but it is also incredibly important to convert funds into small enterprises so that they can convert and adapt the new business to a new situation. The way we as a society and a community have put together, shown patience and solidarity, and accepted and complied with restrictions, shows some of the qualities of Norway and Norwegian democracy. It is in times of crisis that we all enjoy a society where the trust between the authorities and the people is as great as it is in Norway. We are well organized and have access to resources other countries can only dream of. Nevertheless, it has been demanding for most people since 12 March, and many have had very tough times. Before we as politicians can thank everyone for the effort and patience, we must again ask everyone to continue to have patience and understanding, and for new efforts, so that we can get through the pandemic together with least possible tragic outcomes. We must do this in solidarity with those of us who do not have the same good conditions for dealing with the infection, in solidarity with a hard-hit business, jobs, and not least with culture and art and the event-takers, who have been inside, who live with great uncertainty. Then I think the last post to the representative Geelsvik is a little special. How many countries in Europe and in the world have the muscles and what we do for business? We may disagree with some of the fine masks in it, but no one is going to set up the degrees that we do in common. Otherwise, I don't think I particularly want to see Mr. Strifeldt. I thought the salt was supposed to be in the grate and not on the grate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3005	The coronary apathy has been going on for almost nine months. For large parts of Norwegian business, it is now about keeping the wheels running until, hopefully, we can start mass vaccination beyond spring. Although industry has experienced the deepest crisis in modern times after the pandemic reached Norway, it is still a point of light that the number of bankruptcies so far has remained low, yes, actually lower than at the same time in 2019. The bankruptcy statistics published by the Brønn Island Health Registers last week show that this trend persisted throughout the autumn. These figures must be seen in the light of the fact that public authorities, such as the tax administration and the courts, have had a lower level of activity due to corona measures. Nevertheless, these statistics show that the crisis packages adopted by the Storting have so far worked as intended. It is a result of broad conciliation and a cross-political will to use in times of crisis the economic space which is a privilege for the oil and gas nation of Norway. The legislative proposal we are discussing today constitutes the legal framework for the establishment of a new temporary business grant scheme for the period from 1 September 2020 to 28. ==References== A settlement was reached between the Government Parties and the Advance Party on the level of performance of the proposed compensation scheme in relation to the submission of additional item 1 of the State budget. The supplementary number was dealt with in plenary session as part of the financial position and the appropriations for the compensation scheme are in the budget chapters under consideration by the Economic and Social Committee, which are entered on the Stortingen agenda on 19 December. We in the Christian People's Party therefore believe that the consideration of this matter in the nutrition committee could and should have been more tidy. Of course, a wide-ranging debate on the size and arrangements of the actions of the grant scheme should be organised, but this is part of the plenary session on the financial position and the allocated budget chapters of the Liaison Committee. This is why we are responding to proposals for substantive changes in the compensation scheme itself, in particular in the context of the treatment of the bill. including compensation of employees and making adjustments to a model involving competitive municipal enterprises and VTA enterprises. The proposals are relevant to the budgetary procedure and belong there. Nevertheless, we are pleased that there is a broad cross-political consensus on the level of the compensation scheme, as it is now defined in the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party. The Workers' Party and the Centre's Party also express support for the level of compensation in common notes and thus contribute to a broad anchoring in the Stortinget. At the same time, there is reason to point out that the Norwegian compensation scheme is shy from a Nordic perspective. The scheme embraces a wide range of business, and it has a low entry threshold and a high percentage ceiling for monthly payments. In addition, the Norwegian scheme is longer than in other countries. Then we record that the opposition is criticising the government because the compensation does not come to an early payment, and that a proposal is being made where a requesting government is assessing immediate measures to ensure access to liquidity, as well as a new payment solution to the compensation scheme is in place. I would like to remind you that the government extended the deferred payment of taxes and VAT until 28 February 2021. The LGF has also been extended until 30 June next year. This means that the State guarantees 90 pst. the amount of new bank loans to enterprises facing an acute liquidity shortage as a result of the coronary apathy. It takes time to put in place a new support scheme, and it has to be approved by ESA. In addition, there is a need for systems for the receipt and processing of applications and for the payment of aid. Therefore, establishing a full operational support scheme before Christmas is virtually impossible. The regulatory framework must ensure that the aid does not lead to discrimination between enterprises and must prevent abuse. Based on experience from the previous compensation scheme, a location between 6000 and 25000 applications per application round may be expected. In comparison, Innovation Norway deals with a total of about 4,500 applications in a normal year. We have to make a solution that can handle this amount of application. With the law decision today, it is possible for payments under the new compensation scheme to start in January 2021. Work on the new scheme has focused on establishing a robust solution that can be adapted and reused as long as it is needed. It will help us to put action in line with the development of the pandemic in months to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3024	First of all, I would like to say that I appreciate the fact that the Stortinget can deal with the proposal for a temporary grant scheme for large-scale enterprises after August 2020. The law will provide the overall administrative framework for the scheme proposed in the State budget for 2021. The outbreak of corona and infectious diseases has given rise to major challenges for parts of our business. For many, the basis for value creation has been completely or partially removed, and employees have had to be permitted. The government has followed the business situation closely and has had good dialogue with the social partners on the need and design of support schemes. The overall feedback from both NHO, LO, Works and SMB Norway is that the business compensation scheme for the period March-August has worked well and that it has been the main support for the spread of enterprises experiencing a large loss of turnover as a result of the pandemic. The new scheme, which we are discussing today, will be closely linked to the previous one. The design of the scheme has emphasised that the cost base of the scheme should be clearly defined and that costs can be easily documented and verified. It is absolutely essential that we have automatic processing and ensure that payments can be made as quickly as possible. It has also been emphasised that the conditions under which aid may be granted are to be verified at the time of application, precisely in order to reduce the need for back-up checks. The law has been adapted to ensure that the Brønn Island Health Registers manage the new scheme. Thus, the legislative proposal is designed to complement the administrative law rather than the tax law and the tax law, as it was for the previous scheme. The law provides the external framework for the scheme. The level of compensation and the costs included in the calculation basis for the compensation will be laid down in the Regulation in the light of the budget decisions of the Storting and the conditions imposed by the EFTA Surveillance Authority for the approval of the scheme. The government suggests that the scheme lasts until February, but the law opens up a continuation beyond that. Any continuation beyond March will result in changes in the method of calculation of aid, as we are now assuming trading losses compared to the previous year. In March this year, the pandemic was over us, and comparisons are therefore not relevant for calculating the compensation for March next year. The government will come back to the issue of the possible continuation of the scheme in January, and the government is prepared to contribute to those parts of the business that will continue to struggle and struggle with the coronary apathy and the protection measures. I think it's good to see that a Joint Nutrition Committee is behind the main lines of the bill. I have been in contact with the Brønnøsund Registers no later than today, and they assure me that the system will be in place on 18 January at 6 p.m. Eight. Payments will be made two to three days after the receipt of correctly completed and accepted applications. It has been important to use sufficient time to put in place a robust solution that can be adapted and reused as long as it is needed. Experience has shown that the situation can change rapidly. In order to remedy the situation until the aid can be paid, the government has extended the deferred tax and VAT arrangements. until 28 February next year. The Government has also made changes to the Loan Guarantee Facility, which gives banks a great deal of freedom of action to grant loans. The government will work on the management of the coronary crisis for as long as it lasts. We aim to get Norwegian business through this demanding period. The examination of this bill will be a very important part of the basis for the work we are going to do further.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3049	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3054	This is first and foremost a sad day, because we have to admit that by 2020 we are unable to establish a payment scheme for companies that are badly in need of liquidity, unless one maybe spends eight months on it. Because it is eight months from the time the government announced to the Stortinget that the tax bill should not assume any more tasks related to payment. Then they've made changes, and then they get a mission to the Brønn Island Health Registers in the month-end of October–November. Why did it take so long for the government to get in place or actually started working on a new solution for payments to companies? After all, one had to assume that the need came and that it came relatively quickly, and not least that the companies then needed liquidity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3061	At first, I think we need to have perspective on what's going on right now. I don't think we've ever had as many arrangements for as much money in as short a time as we do now. The government has also worked with other arrangements in addition to this, so this is one of several arrangements that come into place. It is a scheme that has also had a development, because we started working early in the autumn for a scheme that would relate to travel and the food industry. Then the measures of infection became quite powerful, especially in the big cities, and we saw that we had to do it wider, precisely because the big cities have so many businesses that need help. Then we went into a broad compensation scheme that we have had before. The reason why we have to do it again is that we have some experience with the old system that made it impossible to extend. Then we have to create a system now that does not only last a few months. Now we have to create a system that can go up and down and last in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3066	It is quite incomprehensible – completely incomprehensible – that the government has not put in place a new system. I assume that when someone was going to set up a travel life scheme and for parts of the catering industry, one did not intend to keep the tax rate as a paying agent against those companies. One should already have been aware that there had to be a new situation and a new arrangement. So how broad the scheme finally became was not about who is responsible for the payment. It was about rigging a cash payment system to companies that need it, corporations that are on the verge of bankruptcy. That's what it's all about raising the perspective, when you try to understand what's going on out there, in the street, in the food industry, in the companies that don't have the money to pay their bills. So it's nice to have some government deposits paid out, but it helps very little if one goes bankrupt on the way there. One of eight companies, alerts the company, goes bankrupt because the government has not followed up the task they should have clearly undertaken: to ensure that there was a payment scheme that could carry out payments to the companies quickly. Why hasn't the government done it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3073	If there's one thing that doesn't help a single business out there today, it's throwing blues in their eyes. The proposal put forward today by the Labour Party will not be able to be implemented. There are two reasons why this is difficult, firstly because whether there should be an aid scheme, it should be implemented through ESA. ESA is working on many of the other good arrangements that we have now. If you were to create a system that does not need ESA approval because it was under de minimis support, it is nevertheless a huge job to be done by those who have already taken on a huge job in this six-month period. It was mentioned here that we expect 6,000 – 25,000 applicants per round of this scheme. There is a huge amount when we see that Innovation Norway usually has 4,500 applications in a normal year. I'm busy getting this in place. On 18 January at 8 p.m. they can apply, and they will receive money on account two to three days later.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3080	It's not the Workers' Party that throws blues in the eyes of business, it's the government that does. One should have been prepared for the arrival of a large number of applicants, that the measures to protect infection should be provided for. It's the government that's totally unprepared. It testifies to a lack of crisis awareness and crisis management. One thought one would not press the button again – that was the government’s position, I am absolutely convinced of that. They have not been able to prove anything else either, when one does not start a pay-out before at best in the middle of October, when the previous scheme was concluded on 1 September. It is not the Workers' Party that throws blues in the eyes of business, but it is the government that does, and the government has to bear on its shoulders a responsibility that many companies will go bankrupt pending the payment of this compensation scheme. So I ask again, why didn't work start earlier than what it actually did?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3087	I understand that the Workers' Party has been outside the government offices for a long time. But throwing blues in people's eyes means suggesting something that there's no realism in it. The government doesn't. We say that on 18 January at 8 p.m. they can submit their application. I have received insurance from the Brønnøsund Registers no later than today. We are now creating a system that will take two to three days until they get the money in the account. But it takes time to set up such a system. We're completely honest about that, and we've been through it all along. We also have other arrangements. We have the conversion system, of which we are now in the second round, which has been important for parts of the business that are now hard hit. We are also open to the need for further adjustments or new measures. But I'm busy being open and honest with our business. I'm busy having the dialogue we have with the NHO, with the LO, with SMB Norway, with Operation, just because we're in difficult times.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3094	In our business, both big business, government and social partners acted quickly. From the date that Stortinget said yes, we are going to have a compensation scheme, it went about. two weeks until the companies had the money in the account. One already warned in spring that there could be a new wave of infection, and then one must be prepared for it. One thing is the timing of payment, but the worst thing for many companies is that today's system, which is being reestablished, is as bad for them as the old one, because it doesn't take care of businesses that own rather than lease, for example. One has not provided to include some compensation of employees in the plan. One has not provided for the inclusion of costs related to disease protection measures, clean-up, etc. Why does one not have time to create a better-adapted system to provide real help to the companies that are now hard hit?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3101	I agree that the job that was done in ours was quite formidable. Getting such a scheme in such a short time and getting the payments out so quickly was really good work. At the same time, we now see in retrospect that at the time we made a scheme that couldn't stand out, that couldn't stand out the whole pandemic. What we're working on now is a system that can. It's a system that we can take up and bring down. It takes a little longer to develop than the two weeks we spent in a temporary scheme that has proved to be temporary as well. We have had good dialogue with the social partners both in the spring and in the autumn. It is correct, as the representative Gülsvik says, that not all expenses are included. Discounts, for example, are not included, while interest costs can be obtained. So it's a balance of the complexity of the plan, it's a balance of what costs are to be included. We have had good dialogue with the social partners about this. Now it's about making it transparent and... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3109	One does not, of course, promote proposals for a regime that can last the pandemic. One has submitted a proposal for a system to last February. There is once again an example that there will be ever new measures, instead of having a long-term perspective, having a plan and predictability for those who are severely affected by the pandemic, that we will have proper arrangements. Then we have to make sure to drag both workers and businesses through the pandemic. The majority of the parties have not even put out money in the budget for a scheme that lasts beyond February. One has announced that one will come back in January with a new system, instead of being in the forefront and giving security to those who are severely affected by the crisis, and ensuring that they are better cared for. I'll ask you again: Why has one not made arrangements to change the scheme, so that the costs incurred by different enterprises are actually met and that the scheme is not as distorted as the scheme initially established?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3118	I believe in principle that this arrangement is quite a good and broad one. That doesn't mean it hits all the costs, and that doesn't mean that all the companies feel it was in the middle of the flash for them. But basically, for the breadth of our business life, this system has been a good arrangement in the situation we're in. It is right, as the representative Geelsvik says, that we have to make some adjustments to this system, for the month of comparison from the previous year cannot be used when we get to March. But we're creating a system and a platform that can be used as long as the Storting wants to have such a kind of arrangement going on. So the government has at least said that we are prepared to contribute to the business life, where it is needed, for next year. But now we're making a system that's going to be robust, that's going to be able to pick up and take down. So it's up to this assembly to decide how long it should last, and... [[President clubs]] the system itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3125	On January 18, at 4 p.m. 8 – it is only one and a half months before the end of time that applies to this whole scheme. Then this law has worked for more than half a year before one has actually begun to get a payment at all. It stands in an incredible contrast to the work we did in ours. For the companies that have survived all this summer, while they have waited and waited – some are going to go over the end completely unnecessary because the help was too late – the problem is that there is too little support. That's about 85 pst. in degree of compensation. It's completely wrong. It's not 85 pst. in degree of compensation. There are fixed, unavoidable costs, which means that there are some expenses you get covered. Those who survive this waiting period – there are many who are going to walk the doll – will then have very little coverage. Why does the government party not consider the SV proposal to cover sales?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3134	As I've been about before, we've now tried to create a system that is very similar to the one we had in ours. Both the old scheme and the scheme we now have have put in place in close cooperation with NHO, LO, Works and SMB Norway. It's now known for business, and it's worked well for business so far. We have to remember that this is one part of the support that business can get. We have extended the law on permitting, we have set up state loan guarantee schemes, we have postponed the payment of taxes and taxes. It's the total of this that's what's important for business to get through this crisis. I understand that they would like to have their money yesterday. I have a great deal of understanding for that. No one wants more than me that the Tax Statue could continue to have this scheme, but the situation is as it is. Then we have to spend the time making the best possible arrangement now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3143	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3150	With regard to the issue we are about to deal with today, it is quite interesting that the representative Ebbesen does not see that the legislation we are about to adopt has an impact on the payment of aid to businesses. There are the conditions for grants and their amount. The government boasts very much about how quickly businesses got money when the corona hit. Therefore, we could not expect ‘millimeter justice’. Founders couldn't get. If the companies had not paid a salary in January and February, they could not be paid. Destination companies could not get, etc. etc. The new system that we are about to adopt today is not more accurate, and it is certainly not fast. Fast Nybø has become a skipper, no one gets money until 2021. All the companies that live by people travelling have worn off since the Norwegians completed the holiday and the travel councils came from the government, and it was August 12. The portal, which helped them with a small proportion of the company's fixed expenditure, closed simultaneously, in August. Soon the government will use a new office to create a new portal. Nobody got help in September. Nobody got help in October. No one received help in November, even when the government shut down Norway for the second time on 9 November. It has become almost impossible to live by gathering people – for restaurants, outdoors and pubs. Go to the bank, Sanner and Nybø have said, but the banks have asked what security people can provide. The companies that do not have equity to live on the money come back to next year – shall not this corona dodging apply to them? The companies that are at risk of bankruptcy are value creators and jobs that deserve better. The government was commercial policy off the track from August. The only industrial policy instrument they know, tax relief on capital, it doesn't work when companies don't have income. State Council Astrup tried to ensure that municipalities would contribute by cutting property taxes. Travel life in Norway – that is what we are talking about – has grown in importance to our economy in recent years. They're a huge job creator with 170,000 employees. They employ young people, and they are often the first job for foreigners to move here. Often the low-paid workers in small job vacancies are vulnerable. The travel life was promised 1 billion. kr on the operataket 21 september. No one has yet seen a penny of that billion, and it must be the crown example of throwing blues in the eyes of an important industry in Norway. When we set up a loan scheme for aviation, it took ESA 12 days to approve it before we could pay it. To blame ESA for not wanting to make rapid payments is completely unnecessary, and it builds up under EEA resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3165	The President will stress that the characterisation of government councils or representatives in this Chamber is totally unacceptable, so it has to be noted. No characteristic is allowed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3170	Then I can start with a little frekkass – good president. I have some comments for Iselin Nybø's posts, because there was really a lot to deal with. When it comes to ESA, it's quite right that the arrangements we're under have to be notified, they have to be approved, they have to pass through ESA before we can put them into action. After all, we have a little bit of an arsenal to take off. We have all the things that have been notified by Norway, all the things that we did in ours, what we've come up with by the summer, etc., there are a lot of arrangements there, also things that haven't been done, that have gone through the ESA round. We have all the things that have happened abroad that we, among other things. was authorised to use in our company, e.g. things approved by ESA in Sweden, we received approval to use in Norway, for example. in the case of dividends, from the side of the opposition. So we had a huge toolbox. I just want to make sure that we have a representative proposal to deal with now, and through that we think that we really need to explore the possibilities that the state has for quickly coming with support. Because there's no doubt that the delay we're now seeing is going to have completely unnecessary negative consequences, such as completely unnecessary bankruptcy, totally unnecessary unemployment. There is no doubt about it. Yesterday I was in contact with several leisure agents. For example, it was a running restaurant. She's taken up personal debt to run the restaurant, he went like that. But now, of course, he's not going, there's no one there. She's invested in everything that's in that restaurant. The nightlife actors now see that they're going to go bankrupt because the help for the first is too late and for the second is too small, because the expenses you get are so small. It's not 85 pst, as some representatives here think it is. It is not, it is significantly smaller – in their case at the bottom of 20-30 p.m., which is, of course, completely hopeless in the situation they are in, with the expenses that are now running on. Then we're in a situation where they go bankrupt, personal bankruptcy. Here we're talking about a $4-5 million debt. kr that they can wear with the rest of their working life. These are operational local business operators as a sender in such a presence. Then the big question is, what does the business structure look like when you count money so much and wait so long to roll out measures? What is the structure of economic activity? Who is it that comes in the wake of this? Who's in it? They're not the ones that make our cities unique or our towns unique, they're not the ones that have patient, long-term capital in their backs, and they're the big international chains. Are those we now want to influence the Norwegian business community? That's the big question in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3183	The outdoor industry is bleeding. On Saturday, I met Thomas and Jan-Ole, who are the owners of the Record Bar in the Drama. They have now been closed for several weeks as a result of local strict measures to protect infection. Now the situation is serious. The whole industry in Drammen and many other places is bleeding. We're talking about people who have built businesses and a lot of local jobs. We're talking about firemen who are afraid of losing their life's work. We are lucky to live in a country where we have the social democratic model of society – a strong welfare state and a safe economic governance. It is now that we have to put up with the business that bleeds, the packages must be accurate. The municipalities are the first line in the welfare state. They are responsible for saving lives and health and keeping the infection under control. It can mean strict measures of infection beyond the national, as in my city, Drammen. But it's Stortingen's responsibility to make sure that we prepare for the industries that are hard hit by local infectious diseases. That there would come a new wave of infection, has been known for a long time, that some industries are more exposed than others, have been known for a long time. The Minister of Economic Affairs must stop shopping. The Minister of Economic Affairs must get his finger out. Now it's serious. I would say it so strongly that the Minister of Industry is responsible for mass redundancies and bankruptcies if political leadership is not displayed now. That is why the proposal of the Labour Party is so important today. In addition to the general compensation, a subsidy must be granted to the sectors which are severely affected by local disease protection measures. And the industries need liquidity now. Then the council must stop piling. That's serious. At Record Bar, a bill of 300000 kroner is expected to be paid in a week and a half. Then you can't wait until January. Loans should be granted, in order to convert them into grants when the government has stopped shopping and has put in place a payment scheme that should already have been in place. I've given up the government. The travel life fades, without the Council of State doing anything to ensure that parcels are accurate. The outdoor industry is bleeding, without doing anything. These are companies that have customer base and living base when we return to the most normal state possible again. We need a big deal that sets up for them now. This is where the government has to deliver. That is why I thought the Progress Party would listen to local trust voters who are now asking them to support the Labour Party's proposals. In Germany, we see that the government is running on to save German jobs. But we do not see the same force of action from the government or the Progress Party. I also have to add that it is incredibly disappointing that the Center Party actually chooses to be in the same company as the Government and the Advance Party. Political leadership is needed here, and unfortunately Stortinget is missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3202	The pandemic has hit hard. The two waves of infection have resulted in several infectious diseases and the already demanding economic situation has been further exacerbated for very many businesses and individual industries. However, let me say that the descriptions from the opposition regarding both accident and summer meal by the government are highly unreasonable. The government has continuously taken action to adapt the support schemes as the pandemic develops. There are few countries, if any, that have better arrangements than what we have established here to land. So to the last changes that have been made: Firstly, the compensation scheme will be reopened with effect from September of this year, with an aid factor even higher than it was in spring. Firms with significant market failures will now be covered up to 85 pst. of the unavoidable determined costs. The application portal shall open in January, to which the Council of State referred, and the money shall be in the account shortly after. Secondly, the system is extended to allow enterprises and self-employed persons to be exempted from payment of taxes and duties. Those who receive it will have the first instalment on 1 April 2021, after they have received aid through the compensation scheme, if they are granted it. Thirdly, the government has made changes to the Loan Guarantee Facility, which gives banks even more freedom of action to grant loans. Under this scheme, the State guarantees 90 pst. of the amount. Following recent changes, the Minister of Finance has encouraged companies that have previously been refused to contact the bank again. I DON'T WANT 11 B.C.E. SEK in loans under the Loan Guarantee Facility until now – of a total framework of 50 billion. kr. The scheme has helped over 3,600 companies throughout the country, and approx. 75 pst. the total amount of loans has gone to small and medium-sized enterprises. There are still a few weeks left for firms that are struggling to receive aid through the compensation scheme, but, as mentioned above, several measures have already been implemented. In addition, banks should be able to take into account that payments for many enterprises are coming soon and to grant short liquidity loans until then. The rules do well to do so, and there is a clear expectation that the banks will follow up. The tax base has had an exceptional workload this year. Experience in the months that have gone by suggests that it is now important that the tax rate can once again focus on the core business, which is to exercise control and work against tax crime and to prevent further loss of tax revenue. It is therefore appropriate to transfer the management of the compensation scheme to the Brønnøsund Registers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3219	The representatives of the government parties are sitting here and are so self-satisfied. I hope the companies notice that. Everything's so nice, you've done everything you can, you say. That is why we are totally passive, because it is believed that we should not have this debate in the Chamber today; it should be in a week and a half. This is an insult on your own behalf because you are making suggestions in the wrong place. What's that? We have a pandemic, we have a crisis, business is in crisis, and there is a lack of crisis understanding in the government and also among the government parties and the supporting party The Progress Party in this Chamber. Over many months now, Stortinget has taken hold. The size has handled it, and we've done it quickly. We've changed laws, and we've granted emergency funds because there's been a need for it. There's even a need for that. We have the best assumptions to be able to do that. It doesn't help those companies that are going to go bankrupt or that have gone bankrupt, that we're a little bit better than any other country. We have good assumptions for success, and then we have to show our trust as politicians in this country by securing the arrangements that are needed, as long as it takes. The anti-pollution measures and the compensation must fit as a hand in the glove. We've always known that there's a new wave coming. Why haven't you done anything? Why have the arrangements not been put in place in the past? Why did we not begin to prepare the new system in our time? Then it's not useful to say now that you need more time. I'm very disappointed with the Advance Party, which is now obviously controlled by the Left Party and the Government. They were very tough in their rhetoric last week that they did as they would, and that they had a lot of power. Yes, but that's it now. Now you sit still and do what the government and the Minister of Industry of the Left says. It's the true face of the Progress Party. The companies are going everywhere because they don't get money when they need it. Magne in Tromsø Outdoor has the heat at a minimum in the room. All employees are on leave. He has raised a maximum of loans, including private ones. To say that you have to go to the banks or transfer responsibility to the banks is not related to the reality we live in. How much money do we get? How much money do these companies get? Do they get a loan? Don't they get any support? You don't know that. You can't come to the bank with a message like that. This is badly handled by the government. I wish you did more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3235	That the government parties want to present our approach to this matter as abnormal because we have some suggestions and views beyond the legal framework is completely incomprehensible. It is quite normal for one to take the considerations and assessments on that basis and make proposals in relation to it. Then I can reassure both the representative Ebbesen and others that in our budget option we had far better arrangements than the government parties along with the Progress Party came up, because they did not save the event industry in the majority solution that was there. But the Workers' Party had a proposal for a half-billion-dollar valve arrangement, and it had covered up for some of the things that fall out of order. However, what is the main point of this legal text is that the government shows that they have failed totally to the business community, that they have misunderstood the measures to prevent infection and the needs that lie there. They have failed throughout the summer and autumn by not setting up a scheme – which should have been there, ready to make payments to business if needed. It's a total failure, there's a total lack of understanding of the situation in the country and business. We have promoted some so-called loose proposals today. I will comment on one of them, proposal No. 11, which is that one initiates local infectious disease prevention measures in addition to the national ones, but as part of the national response. The representative Gharahkhani referred to the example in the Drama. They have had to shut down the food industry for the sake of the wave of infection that runs over the country. They take local responsibility in a national effort. Those companies are being hit harder than those who let it go. That's the same thing in Oslo. Those who now come under the tip of the tray, that business, those restaurants, have to bear a higher cost than the restaurants in many other places in the country where one can still give away. It is a reality. And our proposal No. 11 tries to build up a solution where a greater degree of care is provided for holdings affected, either by total or partial closure, as a result of local measures for the protection of infection. Then I understand that there is no will among the majority to follow it up, but then I would like to remind you of one more thing: it motivates local authorities little to take exceptional action in the national effort, as long as it directly affects their business life more than possibly in the neighbouring municipality. It should be a paradox, and that paradox has not solved the government. So I hope one thinks about when it comes to our proposal no. 11, which I had hoped had gathered the majority, because it improves the situation for very many.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3248	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3253	While businesses are bleeding in my hometown, the number of bankruptcies has increased by 50 pst. As part of this. While a blouse in businesses and workplaces disappeared, the position is hidden in the debate. You don't have to set up any companies in the debate yet. Many of those who voted for the parties in 2017 did so because they were at least busy with business. Then we came here. Who is the first thing to put their heads in the sand, hide in the debate, not do what is needed to save healthy businesses so that they can survive a time of crisis? Who is it? Yes, they are the same parties. Some questions wait for answers while hiding. Why not extend the scheme? We have not received an answer to that question. Why was she six months late? Why don't you give pay compensation? Why only some expenses - why not cover 85 pst. of the actual costs of the enterprises? It's standing unanswered, because the position is hiding when it's tough.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3260	In the end, I want to share some thoughts about what will be the long-term consequences of the emergency unit that we see from the right-hand government. What's going to happen in the longer term is that huge values and wealth are going to concentrate further on a few hands. Particularly in travel and restaurant industries, Norwegian ownership is very diverse and widespread. It will now effectively put an end to the right-wing government, and the industries will be marked by the fact that there is large capital coming in and concentrating the business on fewer hands. This is very important to bring with it, because one of the arguments that the right-hand government often uses in the favorite property tax is just the alleged involvement of Norwegian ownership. Now we see that falling on the rocks with the emergency unit that the government here is showing. The right has become a pure property lot, and it is something quite different than being a business lot. In Norway, food policy is on the red-green side. Business policy is about creating values, making sure people have work. Concentrating wealth can be the exact opposite, and that's what we see here. Earlier this fall I visited a travel company in Trysil. It was quite striking, because I think the person I spoke to probably had voted on either the Right Party or the Advance Party. We had a very sincere talk about how it was going to go with the travel industry, and I saw the despair in his eyes. He didn't care which party solved this matter, as long as the compensation came up properly. Many of the companies I met in Trysil said that after repeated attempts they had simply given up looking at the Dayrevy, because there were so many promises of a compensation scheme there, a crisis package there, but at the end of the day they are all so bureaucratic, so heavy, and so narrow, that you are left with fifty ears while you have obligations of thousands of dollars a week. It's not on your fingertips. It's a constructed story of an alleged help that is not of any use to those who need help at all. This is going to end up in a large wealth concentration that will change the country in the long term, and it is the property party Right who has, of course, the primary responsibility and the primary responsibility for it. Larger differences are to be created and one can shake your head, but statistics will show that this is the result — unless the Storting now decides that these jobs and businesses should be saved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3273	No, I'm not satisfied, and I don't think anyone from the position parties or the Progress Party is. It's a serious situation we're in. I think it's sad that we elected representatives use this hall to believe negatively about each other. I think everyone in this room is busy helping the companies out there – absolutely everyone. I don't even think the Workers' Party and SV, as we know will send a huge tax bill to the companies, are not busy saving our companies. When we hear today that it takes time to set up a system, why should we be distrustful of the will you really have to solve this in the best possible way? The Brønnøsund registers were commissioned in November, and they themselves say they will have a system ready in the middle of January. Then why should there be someone in the hall here who thinks it's just pinching your fingers, and you've fixed it? It's not like that, and all of the representatives who are now calling for us to be able to do this much faster. I'd like to help the companies today, yesterday, because I know they're struggling. I know that. I've been to a lot of companies. I have visited family parents for kids who are struggling, and who do not know if they have work until next year. Of course we will help them. What we are going to decide today is, as I said, the law to put in place a system so that the Brønn Island Health Registers can complete the scheme and put in place a solution for business owners, for those who have to pay the employees. Let's respect it in this room -- that we all have an intention to help businesses through a crisis. And remember, it's not the government that has brought on us this situation -- it's a pandemic that's hit our country. I have great respect for both the government and, not least, the rapporteurs from both the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and the Right, who take tough action by shutting down their municipalities, shutting down businesses in their municipalities. They don't do it to be trolled and difficult, but simply to take care of us – on us – so that we don't suffer under a pandemic. That's why you've shut down, and now you're doing a job to put in place good solutions for businesses in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3290	The country has now, through much of 2020, been in a pandemic where workers and businesses have been hit hard and where there is a need to set up. Even I have met and talked to many of those who have been hit hard, such as restaurant owners here in Oslo, who are hit hard by both national and local infectious diseases. I've met employees in aviation, many of whom are in my neighbourhood in Rome, and also many other companies that are hard hit by the heavily reduced activity at the Gardermoen. I've been to Finnmark and visited various actors in the travel industry that are hard hit by the crisis, not because of local infection prevention measures, but because the tourists are gone. That's why we need to have broad, general, national systems that take care of all those who are hard hit by the crisis in different ways, no matter where they are, and no matter what industry they are in. Therefore, the most important task we can do today is not to make new proposals for new schemes at the top of which one has, but to set up the arrangements that one has, better — by getting a real coverage of the fixed costs of enterprises, including some wage costs and other fixed costs related to the stock of goods and the protection of infectious diseases, and to ensure that the unfair discrimination in which those who lease are covered costs related to it, while those who own and have invested in their own business are not covered by the costs of deductions and depreciation. That's what one has to do. Then one has to provide quick payment, immediate action and help to those who are in a very serious situation, and that is where we should focus now. So to what was said about the fact that this is not about the appropriations today: it is true that it is not the appropriations today, although there may be reason to remind the government and the Progress Party that what is now going to be used by them in a year's time is about what the Stortinget said we were willing to use in April only. Fortunately, the crisis has become a little less bad than a supplement to it, but at the same time this is a very good example. When you've spent so much less money, it's because the money hasn't reached a lot of those who are hard hit by the crisis, both workers and businesses that we need in Norway in the future to ensure that we create growth and development and confidence in the future in our long-term country. That is why we need to improve the mechanisms and long-termity to help people and businesses through the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3305	I noticed the wording of the representative from the Right, Margunn Ebbesen. I know, of course, that the representatives from the Right, from the Left, from the Christian People's Party are also out to hit businesses. That's an important part of our job. And so does the Council of State. That's not what this is about. It's about what you do with the signals you get when you're visiting. Do you listen when you meet business owners, authorized, employees? Do you do anything about the problems they cry out about? That is what the government and the majority are judged to do. This is not personal, it's politics. Of course, everyone will do the best. We can't go into this kind of discussion. This is about making sure that when this crisis is over, we have a business life, we have businesses, we have jobs that can quickly be up and going. It's important to our country. The consequences will be as serious if you cannot save as many businesses and jobs as possible through the crisis. But I also heard what the Prime Minister said in the debate: we are going to save some businesses. And that's a little bit of what has been the review tone of the government and several of the representatives, especially from the Right, in the debate in the last few months: Some have to be saved, but we also have to be aware that some are going to end up. We have to save as many people as possible. It costs, but the cost of not doing it gets so incredibly much bigger. Then you start talking about tax bills. Yes, I can start talking about holiday bills, that you don't want to support holiday money for those who already pay a huge price because we're trapped. I think that's much more important to talk about -- really. That's the people we have to have in front of us when we're talking. Last week I met two receptionists in Tromsø, Tom Rune and Christina. They're licensed. Of course, they're very excited to lose their job now. And we all know that building a hotel or having a coating at the hotels in Tromsø at this time has not been a problem. They've had the highest coating in the country, about 90 pst. It's a very high hotel cover. And it doesn't matter to them now to apply for jobs elsewhere. We're going to lose labour in my part of the country. The representative Ebbesen also knows that labour and competence are extremely important. Government and government parties are judged by what they do, not by what they believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3324	The representative Ebbesen was sad because not everyone in this room ended up doing what the government was doing when it came to limiting the side effects of the pandemic. The representative Ebbesen also said that the Workers' Party sends a tax bill to Norwegian companies. I find it sad that the right still seems to be the companies that pay taxes on wealth. It should be obvious that this is not the case. The representative of Ebbesen also thought it was sad that we had mistrusted Altinn, who had been given the assignment in November and had not yet managed to deliver on the assignment they had been given – everyone did as best they could. I'm sure everyone who's been in the middle of this pandemic has. They've done the best they can. Then it's quite strange to think that we already knew between 2005 and 2009, when I was Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health and Welfare, that there was going to be a pandemic. And we knew that it would have quite major consequences. Now that we've had a government for almost eight years that has had an emergency element in changing forms in its organization, you have to be able to ask questions about what you've been preparing for. After all, it was known that a pandemic would have major consequences for people in the workplace and for businesses if it were to hit Norway. Then there's a reason to ask, what is it that you've prepared for? There is a need for a hand billing to many of the companies that do not now fit into any of the schemes that are. Last week I visited a large company at Gjøvik, which is project-organised and delivers snow removal equipment to airports around Europe. They don't live good days. They don't fit into any of the arrangements, but have recorded that cultural actors in their neighborhoods have received many tens of millions of dollars in support. They have paid NOK 300,000. Then it becomes a poor comfort to them that others are doing quite well. Where I come from, Gran, the patios, the catering facilities and the travel businesses were subject to exactly the same restrictions because of the infection as the Oslo businesses because we belong to the same working region, while the companies in the neighbouring municipalities could continue as before because they do not belong to the same region. Then it's quite unreasonable, I think, that some of the companies don't get support because they don't fit into those schemes. The Labour Party has proposed 500 million. kr to a scheme that cannot be used to fit into the schemes. The government should also be able to think and manage to adapt their arrangements in such a way that they meet the business that actually needs help.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3339	I am quite stated on the direction this debate has taken gradually. If there's one thing that's certain, it's that every representative who has a seat in this room has a common desire to do their utmost to save Norwegian business through the worst crisis in modern times. I want to remind the opposition representatives that proposing changes and additions to schemes also has a human factor. They are the workers who are going to translate our decisions into practice, too. For my part, I have people in my close family who were on leave when Norway was shut down in March, and it took time and time before they got their money from Nav. It wasn't because of wrong will, it was because the Nav employees drowned in work, people who also had to go into a new work situation where they had to solve problems from home offices. I would like to ask the representatives Myrseth, Aasland and Gülsvik: what if the proposals in the matter today had been adopted? Do the representatives really think that it could be translated into practice before Christmas? There are people out there – workers, employees in the Tax Agency, in Nav, in the Brønn Island Health Registers – who do their utmost to get these schemes up and up. I'm asking you to stick your finger in the ground now and start to become a little realistic about what you're doing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3348	Let's be a little realistic and the nights. This is the deepest crisis in the Norwegian economy for a long, long time, probably as long as we've lived – and hopefully the biggest crisis as long as we're going to live. The other thing that distinguishes this crisis from the past is that it is largely the result of conscious choices to shut down parts of the Norwegian economy — of course to limit infection, but nevertheless a deliberate political choice. Of course, it requires a deliberate political choice on the other side. That is what this debate is about, and what is just the lack of the right-wing government today. The reason why we're as clear in the opposition as we are is that the situation is now completely different from what it was in March. Then, of course, you had much worse time, but now it's been a long, long time, and it's obviously been a good time to prepare. Then there's another point: in the summer it looked like there were some things that began to go back to normal. The authorities opened up Swedish trade, south-east trade and underpaid seasonal workers and strawberry pickers. When the infection starts to come back, as was announced, it is obvious that the same authorities must have a responsibility to help the enterprises that are shut down again, and all the workers who again lose the security for both the future and income. It was just supposed to be missing. We may or may not like the debate, but at least it is a fact that this crisis is going to lead to more bankruptcy. For those who are hit by bankruptcy, I think the question now is whether the company is going to survive, and it's kind of more important than just what words are used in the big debate. Many of those in this crisis have a completely different everyday life than we can imagine. For our part, and for my own part, the day can start pleasantly with a coffee cup, a Teams meeting and home office. That's not how everyday life is for most people in this crisis. I think that's why we're failing as radical as a country now in order to take care of the diverse business and businesses we have, that we don't know the body of the crisis that all the people are in. There are many families who have worked a long life to build up those businesses, and now most can be shelled off in just a little year. I have to be so honest and say that there I actually thought that the Right came to make a significantly greater effort, because I know that many of the people who have voted on, among other things. Right, they had confidence that they would make choices to save those businesses. But unfortunately, several of those companies are going to go bankrupt unless we get a decision of the kind that we, among other things, are going to. has been proposed here, by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3366	I note that several representatives from the Workers' Party use the opportunity to criticise the Advance Party with different approaches. I just have to admit that the criticism is very hollow when you look at the proposals from the same representatives – who don't hold water and who don't want to give businesses the necessary help they need. As the Council of State also had in mind, it's throwing blues in the eyes of the businesses that we're dealing with. The Progress Party believes that it is more important than making proposals which appear to be sensible and fine, but which, unfortunately, will take many months to be effective, is to listen to businesses and find solutions that work as quickly as possible and that are as targeted as possible. The Progress Party is not satisfied with the fact that many enterprises are struggling under the pandemic, and that the schemes put in place are not targeted enough – or that some measures take a little longer to put in place. But we are pleased to have significantly improved the crisis package, which will help save many more businesses and jobs. The criticism from the representatives feels very hollow and is not consistent with the feedback from those who have the shoes on. On the other hand, the Progress Party is pleased that we have been constructively repeatedly improving the package since March in line with the government's proposals, and we are pleased that we have put in place an interim government budget agreement that looks ahead, to have solutions in place if the crisis persists. The feedback from business organisations is also that they are satisfied. They want solutions that are feasible, not non-political ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3377	The representative Cecilie Myrseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3382	When you're selective about what you want to bring with you, you get what you want to bring with you, and that's obviously what the last speaker did. It's not that business is generally satisfied with the state of things. You're not satisfied that it's 50 pst. more bankruptcies in Tromsø this year than last year, for example: You're not satisfied with that at all. One must say that the criticism is hollow, but what is at least certain is that the Progress Party is very pleased with the state of things, along with the government. So to the representative Reiten: It's not like the criticism here is about those who are going to manage the scheme, that they haven't done the job. I can't accept pushing them in front of me. What we're criticising is that we haven't started the crisis work before, didn't have a crisis plan early enough. I have to say that I am surprised that the minister has now been asked repeatedly why we did not start work on a new scheme in our company, but refuses to answer. That's what I think is alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3391	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3396	A serious debate ends with a little low, I have to say, from some representatives. What proposals from the Labour Party are unrealistic? What proposals from the Labour Party have not been considered? What suggestions from the Workers' Party throws blues in the eyes of business? There is cheap rhetoric in a demanding debate without content and facts. On the contrary, every comma has been tried in the best sense to save the business that is out there and that is struggling. Making cheap rhetoric at the end of such a debate seems to me to be easy. Now they get up here and justify it and participate in the debate on why it shouldn't be like this. That's going to be the starting point. Why should extra attention not be paid to holdings which are particularly affected by local measures for the protection of infection? The only thing that is unrealistic in this case is that we have a government that has been sitting since June and waited until October to give the Brønn Island Health Registers the assignment they should have received already in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3405	The representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3410	It seems that individual representatives also have selective hearing. The party of progress is not very satisfied at all. I guess that's not what I said in my post either. In the case of proposals that are unrealistic and that throw bladders in the eyes of business, it is among other things. proposal No 1, which I also explained in my explanation of vote why we could not support. It requires ESA approvals, which makes it unrealistic to put in place a new system in a short time. So it's an unrealistic suggestion if you want to help businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3417	The representative Steinar Reiten has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3422	I do not know whether the posts of Aasland's representative were addressed to me, but in that case I have never said that the Labour Party's proposals are unrealistic. On the contrary, I have said that they are relevant, but then in a budget debate. What I said, is that if the proposals that are here today had been adopted, it would have been unrealistic to have them implemented before Christmas. The Council of State has now said that the payment will be made on 18 January. If, for example: The Workers' Party's proposal to add compensation of employees to the scheme had been adopted today, is my claim that it would have been impossible to convert that decision into practical action by 18 January, and I stand firm on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3429	At the bottom of the debate, I think it's worth remembering a lot of things. First of all, I think we all agree that we care about our business life, that we care about those who work in our business, about those who are now outlawed. We want to put in place schemes that can help as quickly as possible. But it is presented as if we are a country, as if we have a government, as if we have a government that has not contributed, that has done nothing, that has not taken action. We are now in a global pandemic. We've spent over 100 billion dollars. kr on different measures. We are in this situation right now that we are among the countries that have proven to be the most infectious through this. We are among the countries that have been most economically successful through this. It is not given that it should be like this. It's not given that it will remain like that. But I think we should have it with us, even when the debate can get a little bit fresh, and the accusations can sit a little loose. Because we're in a situation where we all have a desire to contribute. My point has been that we now have a system that we're working on getting in place. Yeah, it'll take time. Yes, I wish it didn't take that long. But we're now creating a system that's going to be robust, that's going to be able to keep out this pandemic, and that's going to be able to pick up and take down when and if there's a need for it. We make an arrangement that will open on 18 January at noon. Eight. Those who have prepared well, the accountants and accountants, those who can press the send button, will get the money paid after two to three days. It's getting relatively fast. We have deferred taxes and taxes to help now in a temporary situation. We've made it as simple as we can for banks to make use of the loan scheme that's there to provide government-guaranteed loans. What is difficult to achieve, what is practically impossible to achieve, is to put in place new support schemes before 18 January, whether as a grant or as a loan. One thing is ESA, we've been up to it, but it's also a practical challenge with this, because there's a huge amount of applications that will come. These applications are both to be processed and, if necessary, paid, and we will not be able to do that with the instrument we have, which is now working on all of the other support schemes we have before we start the broad, general compensation system, which starts on 18 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3440	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3446	To the representative of Aasland: holdings severely affected by the pandemic shall be protected – sentence. That is a good intention in the Labour Party's proposal, but unfortunately it is a dead end. Instead of being able to argue that the failure to act is due to a local infection protection measure, a measure in the neighbouring municipality, a national measure or an indirect effect of the failure of tourists, the point is how hard businesses are hit. We need to provide better crisis relief for all companies that are hit, make sure to include more fixed costs, make sure that the money actually reaches businesses, that we jointly provide reinforced measures, and that we ensure that we put pressure on those who are responsible here, namely the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3451	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandtrøen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3456	It's completely incomprehensible. The most perceptive thing in this debate is that we still have not received an answer as to why the government did not start preparing for a new payment in June, when they knew that the tax haven couldn't make it. It is completely incomprehensible and still the unanswered question after this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3461	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3467	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 7 and 8 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3493	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3500	After the rarely comprehensive description of the matter by the President, I will not repeat it. There was only one thing missing there, and that is that there is a corresponding change in the EEA worker law. As the President referred to, and as the case shows, this is a very rarely complex matter, and there is fundamental disagreement in the Committee on the subject. The disagreement concerns whether the Storting should further facilitate uncontrolled labour immigration from EU countries outside the Nordic region, and not least what will be the consequences of the government’s proposed amendment to the EEA worker law. The case has been sent to Stortinget with the seven implementing decisions in unofficial Norwegian translation. The majority of the size, including the Working Party, accepts it in the setting. The centre party and SV do not. The case was sent to the hearing on 29 April with an illegal short period – with a deadline of 14 May, i.e. 14 days. The majority of the Committee – the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People’s Party – says in Innst. 109 S that ‘no hearing bodies, including the Landsorganisation, objected neither to the rules of the Regulation as such nor to the proposal that it be implemented in Norwegian law by means of annexes to the EEA labour law’. The truth is that LO has not given a hearing opinion. Within such a short consultation period, consultation bodies, seas with their own investigative capacity would normally not be able to identify and analyse problematic aspects of such a complex case. The aim of the amendment is to further facilitate increased mobility, i.e. uncontrolled labour immigration, of workers between EU and EEA countries, and to impose a number of measures on national authorities, including Norway, to achieve this. These changes include, inter alia,: staff companies which satisfy any minimum requirements may apply to become members of the EURES network in line with PES. It makes sense that the Right supports this. This takes account of the historical ideological line of the Right, which weakens the power and authority of the Storting over the Norwegian labour market. The Workers' Party does not support the Centre Party and SV's main comment, which concludes that Storting must reserve the right to include the Regulation and the Directives in the EEA Agreement by amending the EEA Workers' Act. It must be demanding for the Workers' Party leadership, which in many respects gives the impression that, among other things, they are. shall only have a public employment service. This should be dealt with by the Stortinget later today, in Innst. 97 L, where the Labour Party has a proposal No. 6, which reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that employment services are a public responsibility.’ It is good that the Workers' Party does not support the attitude of the government parties in the two matters we are dealing with, but the Workers' Party, through its lack of argument in this matter, tries to ride two horses at the same time. It won't go well. The Labour Party must choose: Should the party be credible in saying that work for all is job number one, the party must enter in order for the elected majority to govern the Norwegian labour market. There is no analysis of the socio-economic impact of the legislative changes, much less possible changes in the composition of the Norwegian labour force, and therefore the impact on wage formation, social expenditure and social dumping. According to the Ministry of Finance's investigative instructions of 1 March 2016, Chapters 1-2, Scope, second paragraph: ‘The instructions also apply to work with EEA and Schengen legislation, from the identification of new initiatives in the EU and the formulation of Norwegian positions for inclusion in the EEA Agreement or the Schengen Agreement and implementation in Norwegian legislation.’; Chapter 2-1, Minimum requirements for investigation, states that ‘an investigation shall answer the following questions’. There's six in total, and question number. 4 sounds: ‘What are the positive and negative effects of the measures, how permanent are they, and who is affected?’ The investigation instructions have not been followed, but the majority of the size determines whether to set it aside. In the Central Party and the main comments made by the SV, we put forward some reservations about the Commission's proposals that need to be discussed in depth. Job vacancies must be shared at EU level and the logical consequence must be that this applies to both roads: Norwegian jobs must be advertised to all EU and EEA countries, and vice versa. Here are a number of factors that show that this is directly in conflict with our objectives in Norway. As I said, the consequences of the government’s proposals are very inconclusive and the vote should not be taken. For that matter, the matter is far too poorly investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3535	The working party will have a safe and fair working life with all permanent jobs. Now it's the turn of the workers. An important goal for us is to ensure safe work for everyone. At the same time, we have to give the best possible access to the world of work. If we're going to get to that, we're going to depend on every single person who can have challenges, whether it's about finding a job or having the skills that are needed, or there's other challenges that make it difficult, getting tightest follow-up possible. We believe that in the Labour Party is best done through public employment services. It is therefore quite right, as Lundtigen just pointed out, that in a later case today, the Workers' Party is behind a proposal to strengthen public employment services – that employment services should be a public responsibility. But then we must not fool ourselves into believing that this debate is about introducing something new, that new agencies are now going to enter the market as a result of this decision, that there are currently no private recruitment agencies in this market, and that there are currently not large numbers of darkness and a large number of workers becoming caste balls between countries and between employers. In fact, I believe that closer cooperation between countries and between, and not least, PES could help clean it up, and make it safer for employees and easier for authorities to follow up those who work, by having to register, including private providers. In the form of a letter, we have asked the Council of State for assurances that there is nothing in this that prevents public employment services from being available – and even strengthen public employment services if you want it as a political goal; we do so – and we have been assured that there is nothing that is hindered by what is adopted today. The fact that as many people as today can offer work in the Norwegian labour market, operate with impure drive is a major concern for the Workers' Party and it should have been a major concern for all parties. I think that the private employment services that want to register in this, first of all, have to be approved through national authorisation schemes, could help us get a clean-up and more serious among many of the companies that are currently operating unprofessionally. At the same time, the registration will contribute to greater safety for workers and easier supervision for the authorities. The second question is: what working life should be recruited to? This will give us ample opportunity to discuss the matter of permanent jobs a little later today. However, regardless of whether there should be only PES or a mixture of public and private PES, the criteria to be used for the dissemination of workers are crucial. We will, later today, make proposals for a significant tightening up which will, for example, lead to a reduction in the number of people working in the European Union. shall provide rentals only in the case of a purely vicariate, or where the trustees and management of an establishment bound by a country-wide tariff agreement with a trade union with a right of suspension so agree. Therefore, it falls on its own unfairness when Lundtigen claims that this will allow even more unregulated labour immigration. No, although I have my skeptics in this matter – I think it is not well-lit, I think it is rather inconclusive as it is produced – I believe that the intention to get to this register and extend the obligations it contains can be involved and contribute to a more regulated working life and more regulated employment services. So the core is what kind of work life is to be taught? Then, in the change of lines, I will come back and challenge the Council of State on the claim that this narrows down the action space for Norwegian employment counselling, as the Senterpartiet and SV claim. That's what we get back to; there's no time to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3554	Norway has therefore been associated with the European Employment Services Network EURES through the EEA Agreement for 26 years. EURES is primarily a cooperation between the PES in EEA countries and Norway’s participation is managed by Nav. Cooperation includes recruitment and brokering services for employers and jobseekers throughout the EEA territory. What we are doing today is updating this legislation – which is managed by PES. And this is a brand day in Stortinget, because for the first time in three years I say that I fully agree with the representative Arild Grande. I fully agree with the representative of Grande when he says that this will lead to better regulation and more transparency and security for workers. Although provision is now being made for more than one employment service to become part of EURES cooperation, such as private employment services and non-profit institutions serving households, these need to be recognised in each country. Nav will be responsible for the approval system in Norway and the national approval systems will ensure that labour mobility is based on respect for the labour laws of each country. Talking about this as facilitating uncontrolled labour immigration, as the rapporteur points out, falls on his own unfairness. Norwegian enterprises recruit many people from the EEA every year when they need skills and labour not available in Norway, and we are completely dependent on this workforce. As Norwegian citizens, we can of course also seek jobs in Europe, and we regard this as a good thing for the individual. The goal behind the idea of freeing labour — not uncontrolled, freer movement — is to give people opportunities for work. Then it is fine if we simplify, improve and update the possibility of just this, by giving jobseekers and employers better access to information on jobs, CVs and applications – which is therefore nothing new, but has been done in a very complicated and unwieldy way over the 26 years this has been taking place – and that the EURES portal has been modernised with automatic matching between job vacancies and applications in the different Member States. For me, this seems more like 2010 called and wanted its portal back, but small steps forward are also progress. Of course, there is a lot to problem with in terms of labour immigration and employment services in the EEA region, and that is what we will come back to in a later case today. But this isn't about it. This Regulation does not provide for new substantive rules in the field of labour mobility but renews legislation relating to the free movement of labour within the EEA. The economic and administrative consequences are limited to the development costs of ICT solutions of around 15 million. kr, which does not require an additional allocation, but which may be taken over time and covered by the existing budget. The fact that the case was sent with a short consultation period can, of course, be – as the rapporteur suggests – a sign of a national conspiracy against democracy and undermining the labour market made by organised right-wing forces. Or, as we say in our case proposal, this regulation does not provide any new substantive rules in the field of labour mobility, but renews the legislation relating to the free movement of labour within the EEA. The economic and administrative consequences are limited to the development costs of ICT solutions of around 15 million. kr, which may be taken over time and covered by the existing budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3569	This is a relatively unproblematic matter that we are dealing with today. As we have seen, someone is trying and wants to make this the big EU debate today. There's no reason. The Progress Party is as well-known opponents of the EU, and we also want to renegotiate the EEA Agreement in its current form, improve it, prevent social security exports and ensure better national legislation, to mention something. But it is strictly not the theme today. The issue today is whether to further develop a common working network for workers in the EU and the EEA through EURES cooperation, which we have been involved in for nearly 30 years, or since 1994, in order to be completely accurate. At that time, the Central Party has also been in government and has managed this cooperation network. A common ICT system is to be developed and costs are estimated to be 15.5 million. kr, taken within the existing budgetary framework. For the Progress Party, that's fine. Furthermore, there is no one else who has called out the warning. None of the hearing bodies has objected, either to the rules of the Regulation or to the proposal that it be implemented in Norwegian law by means of Annexes to the EEA Workers Act. Having a common regulatory framework for employment services is positive. Updating the legislation when needed is also positive. And I would dare to claim that it had not been because the representative Lundteg had been the case rapporteur, I think he had hardly noticed the difference that a change is being adopted today. In fact, Norway determines and has to determine Norwegian labour market policies. It's stuck, and it has to be fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3582	The Government has submitted proposals for amendments to the EEA worker law and consent to the approval of the EEA Committee’s decision to include Regulation No. 2016/589 on a European Network for Employment Services and seven implementing decisions in the EEA Agreement. The proposal concerns legislative changes necessary for Norway to comply with its EEA obligations for the free movement of workers under the EEA Agreement. The European Employment Services Network, EURES, is a cooperation between the PES in EEA countries. Norway has participated in the EURES network since 1994. Norway’s participation is managed by the Employment and Welfare Act. Cooperation includes recruitment and brokering services for employers and jobseekers. Cooperation promotes the free movement of labour within the EEA territory and strengthens the employment opportunities of all in cooperation. The aim of the new legislation is to strengthen existing cooperation through new and more user-friendly technological solutions. Implementation of the new legislation is a prerequisite for Norway to continue to participate in EURES cooperation. The proposal is a continuation of existing legislation on employment services in the EEA area, and EURES is a cooperative body and a regulation which does not entail any changes affecting labour mobility in the EEA territory, unless legislative and regulatory adaptations are required to continue new ICT solutions. Labour market policy should continue to be primarily geared towards including several of those registered with Nav in our working life. Secondaryly, enterprises may recruit staff from the EEA territory when they need specific skills that are not available in Norway. The new EURES Regulation reflects a need for more coordinated response to recruitment services, brokering services, advice and information in a changing European labour market. Public employment permits are given a special position according to their role and their national obligations, in the new legislation. The new feature is that more than one employment service can become part of EURES cooperation, including private employment services and employment agencies or non-profit institutions serving households. However, all these must be approved through national authorisation schemes, and here is the Nav that is the official recognition body in Norway. By approval, Nav will monitor which actors are involved in the cooperation, and I am committed to ensuring a well-functioning labour market where, among other things. facilitate a good dynamic between public and private employment services. The new EURES Regulation opens up to several PES within a national authorisation system while further developing the PES under the direction of the Employment and Welfare Act, i.e. Nav. I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the government's proposal and also see reservations made about the proposal of the Central Party and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3603	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3608	As the Council of State has probably registered, the Workers' Party is not behind the majority voting. One reason for this is that there has been a little suspended in the air a claim from the Senterpartet and SV, where it is said: ‘Further, these members would point out that the matter involves stronger coordination at EU level, which further undermines the space of national labour policy.’ I've challenged the Council of State on that, which I pointed out in my article. The Council of State did not respond directly to this, so I intended to give the Council of State the opportunity to confirm or cancel the claim – and confirm that there is nothing in this case that limits Norway’s ability to regulate employment through either law or tripartite cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3618	I can confirm that. It is such that this legislation makes Nav the one who approves who participates. Today it is – I understand that we will discuss this later – that the recruitment agencies are legal and operate legally in Norway, and so they can apply to participate. But it's Nav that approves who's going to be there. It is also important to clarify that all countries can set their own criteria in addition. It is the case that all EU countries have now implemented this, Iceland is about to do the same, with no major objections or discussions. So that's absolutely right. I don't think any of those countries would have done that either, if that meant they lost that kind of control over politics or the employment services in their country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3623	I would also like to stress that it is in the matter that there is nothing in the way of strengthening public employment services, if you want to do so politically. So that's it. What I would like to ask the Council of State is: when creating these national criteria, the eligibility criteria, will the Council of State involve the Storting in any way? Is there a case for the Stortinget, so that we can discuss what demands are to be made, so that we can make sure that we get it hit in such a way that the threshold is high, and that it contributes to a clean-up in an industry that is unfortunately characterized by many unprofessional actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3631	It is therefore Nav who is to manage this in Norway, which is to approve the actors who want to be involved. I assume that Nav will then follow the national rules and laws adopted in Stortinget, ref. the matter we will have later today. That being said, if Norway wants to establish its own national rules, we need to come back to how it is to be treated, but there will be nothing to prevent the Storting from discussing any rules of its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3638	The government sent the case out to a 14-day hearing. This is an illegal short consultation period. The country organisation is among those who have not given a hearing opinion, contrary to the impressions given in the nomination of the government parties, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party. The Council of State says that Nav approves Norwegian participants in EURES. The Council of State also implicitly states that other countries recognise their EURES participants, their crew members to participate in EURES, according to their laws. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3645	Yes, I guess that's what I said, that it's in Norway Nav that approves those who are going to participate in EURES in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3650	And that means that the foreign personnel companies that are going to be in Norway are acting on the rules in force in the country from which they are from in relation to the recognition in EURES. The next case is then linked to the investigation instruction provided by the Ministry of Finance on 1 March 2016, which states in paragraphs 1-2: ‘The instructions also apply to work with EEA and Schengen legislation, from the identification of new initiatives in the EU and the formulation of Norwegian positions for inclusion in the EEA Agreement or the Schengen Agreement and implementation in Norwegian legislation.’; In paragraphs 2 to 1, minimum requirements are defined. My question is: Why has the government not followed the investigation instructions for Stortingen in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3664	This is the case, as was the case in so far as the representative Nordby Lunde was concerned, that this is a modification of the EEA rules we already have – it is an adaptation of legislation that is also a prerequisite for participation in the open labour market that the EU area has. Just the fact that there are very few economic consequences, which are taken into account within the framework that is, and that there is an adjustment to the legislation that we have, means that it was sent to a brief hearing. They were also sent directly to these organisations with questions, including: to the Land Organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3669	What the Council of State is doing now is minimizing the consequences of what we're dealing with now. If it's so small, why is it so vital to run it through? Nevertheless, what is at the heart of the matter remains: the government has made its own investigation instructions; it is now after each case here in the UK where the government does not follow the investigation instructions, and now the Council of State admits that the investigation instructions have not been followed, because the matter is not important. Is it the government that is going to define whether or not the case is important, whether or not one is going to follow the investigation manual? It's not in the investigation manual.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3674	If the representative Lundteg experiences that I am trying to minimize this matter, I regret it, because it has never been my intention. I also have no objection to Stortinget asking questions about and discussing the changes made to EEA law. My point is just this: the change we are making now is an adjustment and an adaptation of a code we have been part of since EEA membership in 1994. It has very few economic consequences; it is about an ICT solution to improve the work on the labour market that we share in Europe. I'm taking the matter very seriously. I simply believe that this adjustment is not very large compared with the legislation that our country has been subject to since we became a member of the EEA Agreement in 1994.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3679	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3686	This is an incredibly interesting thing. It is stated in the title of the case that there is further integration of labour markets. That means something. It's uncertain how far it goes, but the point is clear. So the government performs to send the case out on an illegal short consultation period, so that even the Landsorganisation, with its investigative capacity, does not have the ability to provide an answer within the deadline, and the Council of State answers confirm that the investigation instructions of the government have not been followed in the case. It is strong – rarely strong – diet. In the Central Party and the main comment made by the SV, we put forward some reservations about the Commission's proposals, which need to be discussed in depth and which have not been discussed. Posts shall then be shared at EU level. The logical consequence must be that this applies to both ways. Norwegian job vacancies must be published to all EU and EEA countries and vice versa, in our opinion. In the next round, language courses, etc., may be necessary after foreign workers have obtained, for example, a public position in Norway. Nav will have to have greater obligations to provide Norwegian job vacancies to people applying for a job in EU countries. Foreign manning companies will be given a central role when they become part of the EURES acquis. After the assessment of the Centre Party, it will not be possible to publish vacancies locally or nationally first, as Switzerland has occasioned. This has been reported in direct conflict with the goal of full employment in Norway and the fight against unemployment. The representative of Arild Grande says that closer cooperation is good. Yes, the Center Party is not against cooperation. But here, there's some coercion that will affect Storting's ability to fill the task, that's full employment. The representative of Grande says that the Council of State has assured that one can have a public employment service — yes, one can strengthen the employment service. But that is not the point of the Workers' Party's proposal, which we will come to later, in the Innst. 97 L for 2020-2021, for it says: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that employment services are a public responsibility.’ The working party here gives the impression that one should only have a public employment service, which is impossible when one joins this, but fortunately now the Labour Party has not given its support to this matter, so one has the opportunity to rectify it later. It is essential that we have the opportunity to regulate the labour market, and what is now determined, involves further integration of labour markets and less scope for regulation in general, so that full employment is ensured in Norway with regard to the objectives adopted by the Storting in many contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3708	With the answers given by the Council of State, and the Council of State knows that what is said from the pulpit of the Storting must be true, we choose to trust that this leads to correctness. That is why we can join the committee's recommendation and vote in favour of it when we come to voting. The representative Lundtägen makes a number of claims that I think are from a totally conscious desire to create the impression that something new is coming, which will open up to even more unregulated immigration of people who are employed on completely different terms than what is otherwise the case in Norwegian labour. All of this is wrong. I went into this with a certain scepticism, because I also believe that we should follow closely and as best we can limit the influence of the private personnel industry over the Norwegian working life. There shall be the Norwegian increase to regulate labour law, and there shall be tripartite cooperation that regulates wage developments, including, and important developments in Norway. It is possible that I have misunderstood the matter, but I think it is also wrong when Lundtegen claims that you cannot at all explain things locally first. I have the impression that you can keep doing that, if you like. within certain categories of professions, it is essential to take into account, such as: language skills. It goes without saying that you can't recruit people who don't master the Norwegian language, in professions where the language is essential for the work. I also think there are good opportunities to have national rules when you can justify it in terms of safety, the welfare of employees and well, etc. There I think it's a significant space of action nationally. Lundtigen tried to create a scare scenario in the line change to be approved by each home country's national rules. The point is that it is the Norwegian legislation that regulates the conditions under which people in the Norwegian territory work. We're going to get back to that a little later today, but it's still going to be the rule of what kind of work you work in. There will not be a new profession here to work under conditions that apply in another country, when we have legislation in that area in Norway. We believe that we should strengthen the PES. We will also come back to that in the later case. In this case, Lundtigen does not propose that there should only be public employment services in Norway. He does not promote any proposal to ban the manning industry. The Center Party also wants it to be open to e.g. renting through purely self-employed vicariates. So here I think some arguments have been made quite deliberately to try to create a new EU case. The Centre Party will not succeed in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3730	The matter we are dealing with is based on a – point one – unofficial Norwegian translation. It's not official; I haven't been gone before. It is a very complicated matter that has been sent at an illegal short hearing. It is a matter where the Council of State admits that the investigation instructions are broken. It's a case that involves rights, but also obligations. But the consequences of those rights and obligations have not been established. What is established is that the heart of the matter is the further integration of the labour market. When the representative of Grande says that he thinks it is wrong that one is prevented from publishing posts locally or nationally first, we can get the Council's answer to that. Is it possible, after this amendment, to publish posts locally and nationally in Norway first before publishing them in a larger area? No one knows for sure. But my assessment is that it won't be possible. Nothing would have been better than that, but we are very much in doubt about when we understand the logic of the system. In the case of employment services, the Central Party insists that there should be a strong public employment service, but we have taken note of the part of the Blaalid Committee's position which took place around 2000, namely that one then also had a private employment service. We want one to have both public and private employment services in Norway, but the Labour Party gives you the impression that one should only have a public employment service, which according to these obligations is not possible. I guess the Council of State can confirm that. That's the core of that part of the case. As we come to the future, we want to ban crew companies, but we want to accept temporary employment agencies, temporary employment agencies, and that those temporary workers both provide temporary workers to specific temporary workers, and that they can also run employment services. It is entirely in line with the intention of the Blaalid Committee when it came in its time, around the year 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3741	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3758	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3765	In this case, the Labour and Social Committee promotes one common position on two representative proposals, both of which, with a slightly different angle, are concerned with the same, namely the reversal of the cuts made in the system of redundancy payments with effect from 1 January 2018 – more specifically a higher threshold into the scheme, a reduction in the ordinary social benefit period from four to three years, a tightening of the possibilities of extension for persons who have not completed their normal time, and the introduction of a standstill period of one year before a redundancy payment can be re-applied. I would like to thank the proposers for raising a case that means a great deal to people who, for health reasons, are unable to support themselves through their own work. We are in what must be said to be the very core of the Norwegian welfare society. Social security is our common insurance in old age, and it is our common insurance when sickness or injury occurs at working age or earlier in life, while one could still be under education. The purpose of redundancy benefits is precisely to ensure income for those who have, because of illness, injury or suffering, had reduced their ability to work and are in active treatment, take part in labour-oriented measures or have other follow-up with a view to obtaining or maintaining work. Two individual proposals, similar to both of them, were not forwarded to the Committee for consideration under the Storting Rules of Procedure, as they had already been voted on in this session. Proposals for the removal of the standstill system and proposals for the right to extension for those who have not been completed in the Nav or healthcare system by the end of the period during which they may receive redundancy benefits. In this context, the Committee draws attention to proposal No. 24, presented by Jonas Gahr Sturgeon during the debate of the throne. Those proposals were defeated there. Due to the exceptional situation of the corona, the Committee has not held a hearing on the matter, but we have received several input in support of the proposals of employee organisations and user organisations. The Committee is divided into its configuration. The majority – the Right, the Party of Advances and the Christian People’s Party – insist that the proposals are not adopted, while the minority, consisting of the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and the SV, in slightly different configurations, support the content of the two representatives’ proposals. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I will address the proposals that we are behind. After all the sunspots, they will unfortunately be dismayed – once again. Because it's not the first time we've discussed the unsocial cuts in redundancy money, and over and over again, the Workers' Party and the rest of the opposition have appealed to government and large-scale numbers to turn around. I refuse to believe that the great human costs it has brought may have passed the right parties' house. We're talking about sick people being treated in a way that is not a welfare society worthy. All they want is to get healthy, but it's not always possible. In many cases it may take years to get a diagnosis at all. When it is finally available, treatment is not always available. Then many experience a new fight – not the disease, they already fight, but the fight against Nav and the fight against the clock. Three years is too short for many. The Labour Party has met many of them, listened to the despair of standing on the bar, without income, referred to private care or social assistance, where one can risk selling away housing and other values before getting help. Many people tell about the amputation by being reduced to a pile of papers, where assessments from those who know the patient, fixed and specialist health services, are just put a line higher up in the system of doctors who have never examined them, case handlers who have never seen them or talked to them. The system’s dance, long-lasting complaints, expensive rounds in the Social Security Court – it requires an energy many of these people don’t have. The working party primarily calls for the lack of humanity in such unsocial cuts, but we also demand the logic behind them. When an arrangement is said not to function fully according to purpose, are we just going to take the money from people, and flip, then all the problems are solved? Or could it be that it wasn't a characteristic of the users, but the system itself, the number of users per employee and the working methods it was wrong to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3784	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3789	The work clearance scheme was adopted in 2010 under the red-green government as a temporary income hedge during work clearance with a time limit of four years. When the Solberg government joined in 2013, it turned out that the users had not been given the quick and close follow-up they were promised when the scheme was introduced. Therefore, at the beginning of 2014, 70 000 recipients of redundancy benefits were at risk of losing them without a real clearance for work or disability benefit. The government had to extend the benefits to the beneficiaries while the scheme was being evaluated, and after the lack of follow-up from the red-greens, the scheme was actually called a ‘scroll band out of work’ by labour scientists and considered to be a hidden part of the disability statistics. Several evaluations, including: occupational life researchers at Sintef, Fafo, Schreiner and the Employment Committee asked questions about the scheme. The most unsocial thing we can do is we can't do anything. Therefore, the government has made the necessary changes to sharpen and target the scheme. Now the recipients get faster and closer follow-up and receive treatment or activity that helps those who can participate in the working life into it. We want a roller coaster into the world of work. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, as the rapporteur said, have consistently voted against this. I do not acknowledge the proposalers' premise that work clearance money was a safer system before the changes, unless they believe that security is to let you get out of the community and lock you into the outside closet. This is still one of the major differences between the right and the left in Norwegian policy, and I think it was unsocial to let people go on a scheme for years – not making demands and not making demands. Now we see that more people get better and faster follow-up and offer treatment or activity through more targeted courses for the individual. That is why I see no reason to reverse this, as the proposers will. We have just finished the round dance, as the rapporteur calls it, and I think some of the things that it refers to are so old that they are from before these changes were made. According to Nav, more rapid clarifications are now being made both for work and whether they qualify for long-term income protection because of disability. According to the Nav annual report for 2019, the increase in the number of new beneficiaries of disability benefits is due to a recent increase in the number of cases and to a faster clearance of people who received redundancy benefits. In fact, we believe that it is fully possible to clarify the large majority – whether a person has a job capacity – during a maximum of five years you can get a job clearance. It is very unfortunate for the individual to go so long without having clarified, targeted courses of treatment or qualification into the workplace. When we say that we make demands, we also make demands, and we introduced requirements for Nav for closer follow-up and faster clarification both in 2017 and 2018. For those who do not get a job, social assistance can be a temporary option for someone. If there is a health queue, a lack of treatment or long-term treatment after a serious illness, and of course, job redundancy can and should be extended, and so should be done. The greatest security we can provide is to help people get into the world of work. In recent years we've seen the following, and now I'm quoting from the fact-finding in fact.no, which is based on numbers from Nav: ‘The proportion of people cleared for work has increased for those who have been on AAP for a long time. For those who had been on the AAP for four to five years, it increased from 5 percent in 2010 to 16 percent in the last six months in 2018. For those who had been on the AAP for five to six years, it increased from 5 to 14 percent in the same period. Last six months in 2018, 11 per cent of those who have been on the AAP for more than seven years were ready for work, compared with 3 per cent in 2010.’ The right-hand objective of all aspects of welfare policy is to create good spirals into working life. We believe that making demands is bothering, but that the welfare state should also set up. There are too many outside the labour market who can and will contribute, and the Right wants them to have the opportunity to do so. I do not accept the premise that it is safer to stay stuck in a temporary arrangement than actually to clear a permanent income insurance by default or to get into work. Red-green policy meant that the system of job clarifications was stamped as a roller band out of work. Together with the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party, the Right has made sure to turn this roller band around. It's unsocial to maintain systems that don't work, it's a massive bear service against people who need help, it undermines the work of Nav and abuses their resources, and not least it weakens the confidence of our welfare state. Against this background, the right vote against the reversals proposed here today, and wish to continue the good work on the necessary changes to reverse this regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3819	Today, we are dealing with two issues that in the treatment have been combined into one case. Four of the proposals are similar, and are also contested in the past, which means that they cannot be re-enforced, but there are several of the proposals that will nevertheless be debated now. Work clearance money was introduced by the government of Stoltenberg in 2010, i.e. by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, and replaces three different social benefits. The goal when it was introduced was to clarify in a quick, short and effective way whether people who went on the AAP were going to work or have disability benefits. The follow-up of those who went to the AAP then was poor, and there were several examples of the scheme not working properly. The fall of 2013, when the Stoltenberg government went off, there was a precarious situation. After that, changes in the AAP have been largely positive. It doesn't mean that everything works according to purpose for everyone, but it's been pretty much positive. In 2017, changes were made. The goal was faster and closer follow-up and clarification of the ability to work. The changes to reduce to three years were supported by most municipalities, including several red-green municipalities, Nav offices, Specter, Works, YS, KS, Academics, Norwegian Medical Association and NHO, but with exceptional provisions. The proportion of those who were cleared for work is higher now than it was before. Nav’s own annual report states that the tightening up of the legislation made on 1 January 2018 has made the need for closer and faster follow-up clearer and that more people are now being clarified than before. Changes have also been made to allow work clearance to be provided for up to six months after clarification — towards three months after clarification, as was the case before. Today, however, it is possible to provide redundancy benefits for up to five years, three years on a regular basis and up to a maximum of two years on the basis of the health of the user. The majority of Norwegian law is based on the existence of exceptions. To use an English expression in the Norwegian Storing, there is no ‘one size fits all’. This means that it is necessary to be able to see individual cases where today’s legislation does not necessarily work as intended and to adjust both course and policy. I understand that there are many who feel a relief in meeting with Nav. There may be some examples that users cannot be clarified within maximum time and that they cannot be loaded for themselves. There may be a course of disease, there may be a lack of follow-up from Nav or other reasons. Therefore, an exemption from maximum time should also be considered in such cases, if it is clear that the user himself cannot be loaded in order not to be completed, equalise the comments made by the Government Parties and the Advance Party. Furthermore, it is true that there will be a close and good follow-up, and that there will be demands for follow-up from Nav. I would also like to remind you that, on the basis of a proposal from the Progress Party, the Stortinget has decided to set up a Nav Ombudsman, which, among other things, is to be welcomed. shall pass through the Nav in the seams and ensure that you get what you have right and right. I expect that to happen, and I expect the government to follow up what Stortinget writes in the comments today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3836	First, I would like to include the proposal of the Centre Party in the setting. The labour market today is much, much more difficult than it was a year ago, and those who are hit by it most negatively are those who have partial working capacity. There are very many of them that are clarified by the work clearance system, which comes out with partial working ability, i.e. with a working capacity of more than 50 pst. They have a very, very difficult situation today. We have approx. 120,000 on redundancy payments, and there's a very difficult job Nav has to get those people into an income situation based on their work. The core of the AAP scheme is that those with it should be given greater economic security – and therefore it is an important scheme – and that, at the same time, they should be given an explanation of whether or not they have the capacity to work so much that they are entitled to disability benefits. The rules are very strict. There are a lot of stories about people who aren't being tested for dissatisfaction when their ability to work is pretty weak, so I have a lot of compassion for those people. The centre party proposes to temporarily reverse the 2018 restrictions due to the corona situation. We agreed to tighten up from four to three years because we didn't see it as any advantage to be in this AAP situation for a very long time. It's not like you're getting fresher because it's pulling out. But unfortunately, the assurances that we received at the time that increased resources were to be put in place to get people settled more quickly have not turned on. We also want to give a right to extend for those who are not finished. It should be totally seaworthy. That the Right can't be a part of it, I think it's quite special. Public authorities, whether Nav or the specialist health service, are responsible for it, and in many cases there is such a long time and waiting time that one does not get it within the time limit. The centre party also agrees that the temporary performances are determined in the first line. That's the first line that knows the things best. That is what was meant by Nav and “one door in”, that one here would get a competent first line that could make decisions, and that is not least important for temporary benefits. We also want to reverse the cuts for young AAP recipients under the age of 25. Our whole position is that there is a very difficult situation now, and then the redundancy money must be involved in providing greater financial security for these groups, who have very serious problems getting out of work. It's a basic social attitude that lies at the base of what the Center Party is doing. The representative, Heidi Nordby Lunde, says that the AAP scheme is almost a roller band into the workplace. But doesn't the representative see that's not what's going on? We don't have enough demand today for those people who have partial working skills. One may have many explanations as to why it is, but it is a fact, and for us in the Central Party, it is absolutely central that we need to increase the demand of employers for those people with partial working capacity. One of the instruments we have considered to be one of the most important and important is to increase the level of wage subsidies to employers – either temporary wage subsidies or permanent wage subsidies – so that the employer receives a wage subsidy, and thus that the public can pay the difference between the person’s working capacity and the full wage paid to him. It's a very important system that we now need to have a strong commitment to try to get rid of some of the situation we're up against, that's that many people who are so lucky to be cleared up with partial ability to work have to do something. They have to get a place in the world of work. In this case, employers must be encouraged to take in precisely those persons, and the payroll subsidy is the instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3857	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3862	In recent years, the government has cut down quite a bit in the system of redundancy payments for the sick who need something to live off while waiting for treatment and relief from work or disability. In addition, they have introduced a withdrawal period that throws people out of the system before they are finished. These are people who have to sell what they own, who are forced to use up their reserves, and who have to fight the system instead of being allowed to use their resources to get better. Nav's workline has been a poverty line for people in need of help, treatment and follow-up. Therefore, SV suggests to reverse the different cuts that have been carried out over the last few years with the right government, that the decision be drawn in the first line by those who know the user best, that they participate in the decision, and we suggest an obligation for Nav to closely follow up. The government has previously stated that they will assess the impact when they know more about the consequences. Now we know that cutting has not made more people at work, but instead a large increase in the number of disadvantaged and social welfare recipients. Nevertheless, the government has doubts about how to keep layers cut. Instead of continuing with a medicine that is proven not to work, SV suggests to reverse the cut. It's approaching Christmas, and Christmas is for most of us to care about each other, about inclusion, about solidarity, and about next love. That's why I think it's going to have to hurt a little bit more for the Christian People's Party today to vote against proposals that could have done not just Christmas, but everyday a little easier for very sick people. There is little love in this, because speech is clear: fewer people with disabilities are employed today, after government cuts in redundancy money. It doesn't help to streamline a performance when the challenge is that Nav and the health services are unable to clear up people at the time they have access to it. Poverty does not cause more people to come to work; poverty only makes more people sicker. The withdrawal period means that several people lose their financial security before they are fully resolved for work or social security. When Nav, measures and health services are unable to clear people up for work or social security within the maximum social benefit period, it is the individual who is being punished for this, and thus one is being thrown into poverty for a year before one comes back into the unemployment benefit scheme. There is no doubt about the SV's position on these restrictions. The Karen Age is a political miscarriage introduced by a government with a blind belief that cut-off policies themselves are getting more into action. The government should have started at the right end and asked itself: where are all these workplaces and employers that will add people with reduced working capacity? Karentida would never have been introduced. SV thinks it has to be terminated. For the individual who is in this withdrawal period, it is felt that they have lost citizenship, they say. They've reported this to me several times. We can't have arrangements where sick people are put on a bar and lose their dishes in the public eye, as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3879	Today, the bourgeois parties vote against any proposal that could have given a helping hand to people who have been in a desperate situation for a long time. The bourgeois parties could have ensured that not thousands of people now end up in poverty, but no, neither the recipients of redundancy payments nor of day-to-day pay can reach the citizens' priority list. They've used the harvest to pour out heavy tax gifts to the billionaires of the country instead. The impact on the individual of porting during a standstill period is high. They don't get a new job all of a sudden. These are people who are sick, who have not been told if they are at all able to work more, if they have health for it. So for most people, it's social help it ends up with instead. The government does not even keep statistics on what is happening to those who are now leaving the scheme – out of sight, out of mind for the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, who can now lean back and point out that the number of AAP recipients is falling, and, as it says in the setting, that the system is 'essentially functioning as intended'. It's enough to wash your hands. The intention cannot be that as much as possible get out of the AAP system without their completion, but that is the reality for a lot of people if the Storting doesn't take hold now. So next year we're talking about over 21,000 people who can get out of the system. So state councillor Asheim says that many of these can be clarified either for work or for disability before they reach this max date. That's so true, but it's very close to everyone. At the same time, when they insist that the maximum period of benefit is three years and has been tightened on the possibility of extending the benefit, it shows that they have a completely unrealistic picture of the time needed for a person to be clarified in the Nav system as it works today. The AAP action has done a job of documenting this. They've gone through 300 accidents, and they've looked at how much time it averaged to get granted disability benefit. The fasitite that was 7.5 years old. Too many have taken 10 years, and only 13 pst. is completed within the current maximum limit of 3 years. So the map with which the government operates doesn't match the terrain in the real world. Then last week we could read about a Nav counsellor, Thomas Hall, who was already responsible for following up 120 AAP recipients before the crisis. Now the number has increased to 155. As he says to the newspaper: ‘With less guidance, we had more time for labour-oriented follow-up that would have a socio-economic benefit. To do that, we need to spend more money on follow-up and create more jobs in Nav." But the 2021 budget cut another 61 million. kr in Nav's budgets due to the so-called and imagined efficiency of the government. Since 2015, the cuts will add up to about half a billion dollars. Had it not been for these cuts, which are referred to as the ABE reform, Nav could have hired 600 more people. So the abjectness that has been revealed by the AAP action, that it takes, on average, 7.5 years to get granted disability benefit, that many people wait 10 years, that only 13 pst. is completed within the current maximum limit of 3 years, due not to the fact that Nav employees do a bad job, but that the government has cut and cut and cut budgets so hard and so long that there are too few employees to do a job, to clarify people within today's maximum limit. It is a further argument to strengthen the budgets of Nav, but also to support the proposals promoted in the case that one should drop the withdrawal period, drop people into poverty, but extend it and give people the opportunity to be clarified either to disability or to return to work. But with today's practice people will unfortunately end up in poverty instead. I think that's the worst solution of all possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3901	At the time of the introduction of the redundancy allowance scheme in 2010, the aim was earlier and better follow-up and that more people should return to work more quickly. The main picture after the AAP scheme was introduced in 2010 was that the total duration was not reduced compared to the three previous benefits. The transition to work did not increase either. A number of regulatory changes were introduced in 2018. Changes to the laws meant narrowing the scope of the scheme, facilitating a tighter monetization and increased labour incentives. The overall objectives were faster clarification and increased transition to work. SV proposers will reverse the tightening of the AAP scheme introduced in 2018. I can't see that for good reasons. The changes from 2018 will have full effect from different dates – the last ones only from 2021. I believe that it is important to put in place a comprehensive and broad basis to assess the impact of the changes in the rules, and I assure the proposers that this is followed closely. SV and Rødt proposers will increase the regular social benefit period to four years and extend the possibility of extension if the user is not finished. After the introduction of the AAP in 2010, exemptions from the maximum duration of four years were often granted, despite the fact that in Ot.prp. No 4 for 2008-2009, it was considered that the exemption would only be used in specific cases. Figures at the end of 2016 showed that nearly one in five had received the benefit for more than four years. This may indicate a too liberal practice of granting derogations from the maximum duration provision. There was a need to clarify in the legislation who would be granted an exemption and to regulate the duration of the derogation. There was also the potential for better and more targeted social benefits through earlier start-up of labour-oriented activity and more simultaneous implementation of labour-oriented activity and medical treatment. This was part of the basis for reduced maximum duration from four to three years. It is important that there is a clear limit on how long it is possible to receive a temporary hedge of income such as the AAP. This was also the background for the introduction of a 12-month standstill period before it is possible to re-apply for the AAP after the maximum social benefit period. A Study in Work and Welfare No. 3-2019 shows that after the amendment of the legislation, there has been a faster clearance of beneficiaries, and that this also applies to those with shorter social benefits. Health care and Individual job support, IPS, are good examples of enhanced cooperation between healthcare and Nav. The aim is to provide simultaneous healthcare and labour-oriented services in order to remain or enter into work. The maximum duration of reduction from four to three years applies only to new cases from 2018 and the full effect of the change only comes from 2021. As a result of the coronary apathy, the benefit period is extended by six months. This will shift the time when the recipients who have had a maximum period of three years will in practice reach the three-year limit. I note that the majority of the committee believes that the government should consider the conditions for extension under the second paragraph of Section 11-12 of the Act, but I do not want to propose changes in the duration regulations now. SV proposers will also reverse the reduction in the AAP for young people under 25, which was introduced this year. The reason for this change was that in the short term it should not be more profitable to go to social security than to work or take education for young people. The level of performance of this age group, following the change, is similar to that of the qualifying aid and the introduction benefit for persons of the same age group. The changes in the minimum performance of young recipients have only been effective for a short time and there is no basis for assessing the effects of the change now. In parallel with the changes in the rules in 2020, funds were allocated to strengthen the follow-up of young recipients. The government's proposal to increase the appropriations for labour market measures in 2021 will provide room for intensifying efforts directed at young people. The allocation of individual job support is proposed to be strengthened, and this can provide an important offer to young recipients of the AAP. Operational appropriations for the establishment are proposed to be strengthened, inter alia: in order to be able to manage increased operations in the Nav offices as a result of the coronary apathy. I believe that the changes in the rules will lead to faster clarification and increased transition to work. We're following the changes and the workings of these carefully. I have no plans to propose changes to the legislation now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3921	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3926	On repeated occasions, the Council of State has assured the Government that if cut-offs in redundancy payments would lead to unintended consequences, it will take the initiative to amend the legislation. But for the time being, we have not seen such an initiative, even though work and well-being are no. 2-2020 shows that the contractions have resulted in a significant increase in the transition to disability benefits, a significant increase in the proportion of beneficiaries of social assistance, while on the other hand it is not possible to detect an increase in the transition to employment. Does the Council of State think that these are unintended consequences, which he wants to address, or is this the desired result of the government's cut in redundancy money?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3933	As for the examples that had been given in the article to which the representative refers, it is AAP recipients who had passed the whole period, i.e. from before 2018, so that the effect of the changes that have been made, as I said in my post, will not really see until next year. Then the three years have gone by, in addition to the extension that came as a result of the pandemic, which adds another six months. But I want to confirm that we're going to follow and evaluate this carefully. That is why this evaluation is also under way. We are open to look at adjustments along the way, but now the legislation is in place, and I believe that many of the grips that were made, both in 2018 and from this year on, have been right in order to achieve a closer social welfare race and faster clarification for more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3940	I thank you for your answer. Now I'm aware that with some of the contractions, e.g. shortening to three years, it may take a little longer. But to the importance of the exceptions – and the Council of State itself mentioned it – at this time we now stand in: what we have seen is that it has become more difficult to extend under paragraphs 11 to 12, and we have also seen that the Social Security Court has shown that Nav has actually practised the rules more stringent than the Bill of the Great Britain provides access to. With the Nav scandal fresh in memory, what has the Council of State done to ensure that those falling within the rules of exemption actually get the extension they are entitled to?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3945	Let me first just remind you that in 2016 there was one in five who got an extension over the four years, so that something else is tightened up, has been the whole purpose. If the representative has examples of Nav practicing the code incorrectly, or if users of Nav or AAP users feel that the code is being misinterpreted, I hope that we will be made aware of it, because we have a very close dialogue with Nav along the way that the legislation that has been adopted should, of course, be followed. Nav's mispractice shall not occur, and we shall follow closely and engage in dialogue with Nav. But when that's said, it's clear that fewer people get an extension, is a deliberate effect that we didn't want the practice that we had until 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3950	The Council of State was well into it in its article, and we have seen in this matter, among other things. that someone can lose the AAP without being able to load it for themselves. And I quote one of the comments that the government parties on Stortinget and we in the Progress Party are behind: ‘These members therefore consider it appropriate to consider access to maximum time exemptions in such cases, if it is clear that the user himself cannot be loaded in order to be completed.’ And I quote: ‘The majority believe that the government should consider proposing the extension of the condition [[...]] Since this is important for those concerned, I would like to know when and how the Council of State will follow up the will of the Storting, cf. the notes that I just quoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3965	Yes, I've also read that majority comment, and what I see is the starting point there, is that there's no excuse, that it's simply because it's taken longer than it normally should. Of course, we're going to follow developments all the way through this. That was some of the basis for my argument too, not to draw any bastant conclusions, simply because this is being evaluated now, these are changes that are on the way. But we're going to follow it up, of course. Once the Storting has finished dealing with this matter, and a majority comment asks for it, we will, of course, do the same. What I said in my post is that I don't have plans now to extend the benefit period beyond the three years, with an extension of five years, because I think it's too early to do. But of course, we should always be open to that kind of adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3972	The redundancy allowance should mean earlier and better follow-up and a faster return to work, as the Council of State said. That didn't happen. There was a lot going wrong under the red-green government. I can only stress that. The Nav reform has come off track. The A in Nav, that is, work, should be the most important part of the Nav reform, and the result is saddened by such a large budget. The government then tightened up in 2018, connected with the assurance that one would strengthen the effort. The representative of Moxnes described this in a very good way, how many Nav people each supervisor has. It is not possible to do a good job. And then we're in the situation that Nav and the health service are not able to investigate people within the deadlines that are. Then we suggest that an exception be granted, and then the government goes against it. Is it because the government believes that it is the individuals who are the cause of a failure to do so within the time limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3979	Let me just start to say, a little bit like the representative is in, that I don't think either of us can beat us to the chest given the situation that many people in Norway are in. That means that the whole system doesn't work as well as it should, but we're trying to do a lot with it, both by meeting young recipients with activity within eight weeks and by budgeting for the next year – now it's adopted – we're going to allocate 825 million. kr to several action sites. We have IPS, we have all of these things, which I think can work well to get more people working. So, of course, it's not that I think not to be clarified in time is the individual's fault, but I think it's very, very important that we have a system that also has some clear deadlines, because it will do something about the system's ability to follow up quickly enough. This is also about seeing the health cycle and the help to get into or get into work, in a closer context. That was the argument for tightening up, and I think it is too early to conclude that it has not worked. On the contrary, we see signs that it actually did.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3986	In several answers to questions about why the government agreed to extend the temporary extension of the AAP, when SV suggested this earlier in the fall, the government wrote that this is about the situation in Nav now being back to normal. With all due respect, this is not right. Add in Nav's many places still at home offices and do not have the opportunity to meet their users as normal. Does the government think it's a normal situation to clarify users' ability to work over digital meetings? And in places where the Nav offices are back to normal, does the government think that the normal situation has shown that it's good enough for people on the AAP to be resolved this way, when they can't complete the time in the action they're in?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3991	For example: those in training measures will be revalidated so that they do not have to complete the training while on redundancy pay. But the reason why we haven't been able to extend beyond the six months is – and I think everyone can see that – that Nav was in a completely spectacular situation in March, April and May this year. They were in a situation where it was not possible to follow up the AAP users well enough. Now we are in a situation where we see that unemployment is still too high in Norway, but where Nav himself says they have resources – also because in the budgets for 2020 they were increased by 900 million. kr, in the budget for next year, with an additional 500 million. kr, and that we allocate money to what is likely to be 7 000 new action places, and that it is possible to follow up in a good way. And I just have to repeat that a very important tool – in addition to being resources and actions in place – is to have some clear deadlines, to ensure that the follow-up takes place when it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e3999	With that, the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4006	The council's reply to the Lise Christoffersen in the reply made me anxious. If good procedures are not in place in the department now to capture what's happening in the Social Security Court without having to be reported by the big business representatives and others, I'm deeply concerned about what we saw in the Nav scandal. But the issue we are dealing with here today is that people should have a real opportunity to secure income and security. The consequences of the restrictions introduced in 2018 are clear. I'm a little surprised that the Council of State doesn't open up any more to look at it, for in Prop. 1 S for 2020-2021, the government writes the following about the consequences of the legislative changes: ‘The overall conclusions are that the growth in the proportion and number of disability benefits and social assistance is an effect of the tightening of the derogations’.» So the treadmill is rolling on, but not the way that Nordby Lunde thinks. We still hear that you are hiding behind the Employment Committee in explaining the cuts in the AAP for young people, but the Employment Committee not only suggested cutting, it was supposed to be a separate model for closer follow-up of young people with mental disorders, and after that the government has cut out the golden rule for psychiatry priorities in the health care system. One should strengthen the qualification programme – never have there been so few on the qualification programme. There should be a significant increase in labour market measures, so there would have to be a coronary apnea before a few more places were put in place. Closer follow-up – closer follow-up must mean that supervisors can have more agreements on their daily calendars than they had before, when we hear that the number of users each supervisor has increased significantly. It's hard to see completely what's the government's willingness to make changes to a system that has led us to have more disabled people and more on social assistance. I am absolutely sure that many of those who now have to get out of the work relief system because they spend their time, otherwise they could have returned to work. People who have had severe cancer diagnoses and go on heavy treatments for quite a number of years are getting tired. When you can't go any further on work clearance money, the path to disability is the easiest one, although many of them would certainly have been back to work if you had spent some more time building up again after a heavy diagnosis. What we see is that young people should have closer follow-up, but it should be funded by cut-off benefits. It stands in stark contrast to the other cut government does for those who have the most from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4024	Just a few comments on things that have been said in the debate. Both Heidi Nordby Lunde and Gisle Meininger Saudland made a point that work clearance money was introduced under the government of Stoltenberg II. That is far from correct, but I would like to remind you that the redundancy allowance came into force on 1 March 2010, and on 16 October 2013 the government of Erna Solberg took over. And I've never recorded that the Stoltenberg government said that introducing redundancy money, like a new system of greater degrees of freedom and opportunities for individual tailoring, was a reform that would work perfectly overnight. On the contrary, it was suggested that one should continue to make adjustments and changes, both to make regulation simpler and to make access easier for users. Heidi Nordby Lunde also said that now one has ended the round dance. No, it can't vote. I should like to see that documented. We see in the budget statement that the number of complaints is increasing, the number of cases before the Social Security Court is increasing, and Mr. Rigmor Aasrud was also in the room – like her, I was a little startled if that is the case – that there is still no system to incorporate complaints in the Social Security Court and lead to changes in Nav. Back to it with unintended consequences: I have also registered that there are some recipients of redundancy benefits who have ended up in the car without having finished, and who have automatically lost the right to disability pension from one of the public pension funds. Some even say that when you have tried to complain about such a decision, the complaint has been rejected, since the pension funds only follow Nav. I am aware that the Council of State in a letter of 17 November 2020 has addressed this very thing, which looks like a new misinterpretation of the legislation of disadvantage for members, this time in the public pension funds. It is commendable that the Council of State has taken note of this, but I wonder whether the Council of State will also ensure that those who have unlawfully lost their disability pension are paid after what they are entitled to. Finally, the Council of State mentioned young people. I have an example. I have just met and talked to a young person, a truck driver. It doesn't go any more, he's tried other professions, strong asthma puts an end to most things, and he turns 25 in a month. He asks, "Why should I be punished for being young?" I would like to send that question to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4037	First of all, I would like to say that the Asheim Council has no simple job. At least he doesn't have an easy job as a deputy state councillor in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, it makes it even more demanding. I would also like to say that the Council of State answered my question very seriously about redundancy payments, that it is not the individual applicant’s responsibility – or fault – that one does not keep the deadlines. It was rarely real, and it is for which the Council of State is to have great honor. It's a big star from my side. I don't distribute many stars to the government, but it's become more for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, so it looks like the Right Party is putting in someone who has more social mind layers there than in some other cases, for example. The Council of State said that deadlines must be set, and I fully agree with that. Time limits must be set and time limits must be set for two parties. It is time for the individual in the scheme to take his own initiative in deciding on and resolving his or her matters, but there are also time limits for the public. And what affects me so much is that we get so many stories that it's public, whether it's the Nav or the specialist health service or some of the glory that's coming, which is why you can't keep the deadlines. In the Central Party’s understanding, the deadline is also for the public – the public also has some obligations. That is the background for proposal No. 10, which the Central Party has promoted in this setting, where we say it cannot be that if it is not resolved as a result of the efforts of the public, the burden will be on those people who are in a difficult situation. The Council of State says that it is too early to conclude whether or not scarce deadlines are working. But it's pretty simple, I mean, to say whether it's worked or not. If the problem is public, then the Council of State must be able to say: Yes, then is the time to move on. That's the core of the matter. I ask the Council of State to clarify that part of it, why the Council of State cannot support proposal No. 10, from the Center Party, in the present position.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4052	I have to admit, of all people, that I should acknowledge the need to have a completed script when you go to the pulpit, because I tend to be very textual myself. But when you've heard the facts in fact.no, when you've heard the quote from Nav's annual report, when you've heard the actual numbers, then it might have been an idea to try to change at least something on their claims. It is claimed that no requirements have been introduced for closer and faster follow-up from Nav. It has – it was during the decisions along with the changes in both 2017 and 2018. Nav’s annual report just confirms that increased capacity in the proceedings is now clearing up further cases of disability. We don't see any reason to keep people who obviously qualify for disability, in uncertainty for as long as possible, but rather that they are actually cleared for disability. And then we also see that this number is increasing. Several people are also cleared for work, which in fact has been checked in fact, and which Nav also refers to. Christoffersen refers to numbers from Work and well-being No. 2nd@item: inlistbox She should perhaps rather relate to Nav's own annual report, which confirms that increased procedural capacity and closer follow-up have also led to faster clarification. As I said, I can't quite see the purpose of keeping people who qualify for disability benefit, in the uncertainty of working life. Then I heard the representative of Moxnes say that this government has cut, cut and cut – cut so much that the case handlers have much more to do and cannot follow up. That one case handler experiences this temporarily, I can see that they are frustrated about it. But the figures, again from Nav's annual report and from Nav's own, show that today there are actually as many – or more – people working in Nav, even with proceedings, as under the red-green ones. This means that the capacity has increased, they have strengthened the systems and they have the possibility to process more, and therefore more are clarified. There are too many people who are out of work, and I said: Right-wing social policy wants to help give opportunities to others to get a treadmill that has been defined as out of work, to go back into working life. We're not satisfied with the situation as it is. But it's just the changes that we've made, that the opposition today wants to reverse, that have made us able to turn that reel. That's why we're voting against it. The representative of Christoffersen said that no, when this reform was adopted in 2010, it was not a finished, successful reform, but a reform that had opportunities for change and improvement along the way. It is precisely what this government has contributed to, by making absolutely necessary changes to a reform that did not function as intended, but that has now actually managed to reverse this from being a treadmill out of work to becoming a roller band into working life. Then we won't stop those changes now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4067	I will not contribute to such a violent extension of the debate, even though the theme itself is important enough for us to perhaps spend a little more time on it. I just need a little clarification from the President first, if possible today, at least before we are going to vote on Thursday: the Central Party has taken up its proposal No. 10 in the vote, and that is the same proposal as one of those which was not forwarded to the committee on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. But if that's the case now, the proposal of the Central Party No. 10 can actually be taken up to voting, of course the Labour Party is going to vote for it, because that's a proposal that we ourselves have promoted many times in the past. So just briefly to the representative Nordby Lunde, who claimed that I adhered to the completed script and did not listen to what she said. If she had seen the manuskaoset I had up here in my second post, I think maybe she wouldn't have used that expression. Anyway, I've become a little too old to care about that kind of ruling technique, so I say what I think is right, and that's what the Workers' Party stands for. When Heidi Nordby Lunde refers to actual.no and Nav's annual report for 2019, I just want to remind you that Work and well-being no. 2-2020 is also Nav, and Work and Welfare No. 2-2020 contains more than just simple tables. It contains analyses with a significant level of what is actually related and what one can prove to be related. What they say is that it is not possible to detect an increase in the transition to work as a result of the cuts made in redundancy payments. What they're saying is that there's a trend that started before the contractions, so it's going on independently of the contractions that are. At least they have not been able to demonstrate a clear relationship. But they see a significant increase in the transition to disability. For some, it is probably very nice that you are free to go year after year on pointless actions. There was some of the purpose behind the work clearance system too, a faster transition to disability. But Work and well-being No. 2-2020 also shows a significant increase in the proportion of social assistance recipients, and it must be said that there is a negative impact that should at least be able to interest members of the Employment and Social Committee of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4078	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4084	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 10, 11 and 12 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4123	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4130	I often meet people in different industries, who share sunshine stories and concerns. At the same time, they believe that we who are in this room see the whole thing and make the wise and right decisions. It has been engaging and partly frustrating to have a debate on rentals, but I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation. We probably share the idea that there was a need to regulate renting and that we needed a good enforcement of the rules. We also share the view that permanent, entire jobs should be the general rule in the workplace. But we strongly disagree with several of the proposals promoted in this case, and it turns out that a single left-hand side will now go further to the left. The rest of my post will therefore address the Right Location. This weekend I was at dinner with some of my former colleagues in ASKO. Several of them came to work because of rents or temporary jobs. Later they got a steady job, more responsibility and have made a career. Of course, we came into politics, and one of them had the sense of the Center Party. He thought the laughter of the Battle of Vedum was gloriously redeemable. But when I told him that the centre party now went in the breeze to ban the manning industry, he was wandering in the eye. This had to be scary from me. Yes, it was simply too incredible to be true. Unfortunately, it is written in black and white in this matter. I hope my colleagues from ASKO will join us today, and that they will listen carefully to what the representatives from the left are saying. Yes, far more people should actually follow the debates in this Chamber, because there is a fight about the story of history. And it's unfortunately often the extremes that define the truth. This story dates back to 2018, when Red promoted a proposal to ban rentals in the construction industry in Oslo. The government has already worked on a matter in this area, but it rarely stops the opposition from making suggestions. As early as 2017, the government had taken the initiative to introduce substantial changes in the regulation of rentals, clarification of the concept of fixed-term employment and a ban on so-called zero-hour contracts. The Christian People's Party secured a majority, along with the left side, to limit rent further, and they went beyond what the government was talking about. Among other things, the requirement to have a trade union with a right to set-aside in order to agree to rent in addition to the vikariat. It was frustrating to see balanced regulation becoming increasingly radical through the treatment. There were sharp debates, it was Red that got the story under control. At the same time, the Christian People's Party, together with the government parties, promoted proposals for the exercise of a control function for the enforcement of the lease provisions, which was subsequently adopted. Work has now begun to produce results, and last year's NHO figures show a clear decline in rentals. But the left-hand side will not prejudge the debate with the facts. They have purchased Red's history of a working life approaching Norway in the 1930s. The proposals are based on a false premise that rentals and temporary periods are high. In fact, the rental figures have been stable between 1 and 2 pst. for several years. The left-hand side is already refusing Norwegian enterprises the necessary labour force. I spoke to the head of Vard Langsten about the consequences of these proposals. Was Langsten built in 2019 a cruise ship, with its 200 employees, and had over the project period a total of 2,000 employees within a day. The project would have been impossible without rent. They do not have predictability for the type of work, nor do they have enough professionals in the country. 23 men from the Labour Inspectorate had unannounced supervision one of these days and left the company in the seams. That's the way it has to be, said the director of the yard, but how can we proceed without the possibility of renting? The answer of the centre party is that the yards can employ temporarily. The centre party clearly believes that these professionals are grassing around and ready to be picked up. One would think that the Center Party knew that our meat is largely cut by Lithuanians. There is a legitimate need for rent in addition to temporary work, for Norway does not have all the labour and competences we need. I hope the left-hand side is aware that they are now mixing a deadly cocktail for the business community. I can say that there is no shame in turning. But it requires that they see that they are buying Red's story about Norwegian employment – a working life where nine out of ten are enjoying work, a working life where permanent employment is and should be the main rule, but where there are serious exceptions. But it certainly doesn't matter in this debate, because here everyone has to be punished collectively. The great sinner has become the maning industry. Again, Norwegian jobs are like the big loser.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4162	People's opportunities in the world of work are crucial to people's lives. It's maybe some of the things that affect our lives the most. Where it works, which fortunately is in the vast majority of Norwegian working life, it gives a great deal of freedom, independence and belonging. But if we look at parts of the world of work in Norway, and if we look a little out of Norway, we see that rapid and serious changes in working life are much of the reason why we have seen increasing social unrest in many places, increased polarization and many who are striving to make everyday life work — disintegrating societies. We may think so, but we are not shielded from this development in Norway. We also see pressure on pay and working conditions in our working life. We look at some jobs that there is a majority of hired labour. We see employers doing everything they can to find new ways of avoiding employers' responsibilities and obligations towards their employees. The question then is, how does policy meet such a development? What does a government with a political majority choose to do when they see such a development? Because this is also going to have to look at the right-hand side. When the Workers' Party was in government, we gave priority to, among other things. strengthening professional organisations and making it cheaper to be a member of a trade union, and strengthening tripartite cooperation, to ensure that we have a positive, good and healthy development in our working life. We gave priority to strengthening the right to full and permanent jobs. We introduced collective redress, so that no one has to stand alone if they have an employer who doesn't care. The right-hand side has consistently prioritised the opposite. One of the first things they did, as they've done throughout the period, was to make it more expensive to be a member of a trade union. They've weakened tripartite cooperation. They have weakened the right to permanent employment by introducing a general access to temporary employment. One of the triflest: they have removed the collective court of appeal. What does the right-hand side want to achieve with such a policy? What are the societal goals underlying such action? We see the effect: it is the serious employers and the serious companies that are now losing competition in construction, for example: in the Oslofjord area, where the serious industry, our construction industry, which we need to build the country, calls for political action. But the government has closed its ears. Another effect is that for the 30 pst. in Norway, with the lowest wage, there has been a real wage drop since Erna Solberg became Prime Minister. The right has given priority to the richest. The right has given priority to a completely different society than the Workers' Party dreams of. The Labour Party will have a fairer Norway. We say that now it's the turn of the workers. The steps we are proposing in this debate are intended to help more people get a steady job. We're going to ban rentals that push out fixed jobs, and we're going to remove the general access to temporary employment. Social security will be provided to more people. We propose better rights for employees and increased responsibilities for employers. Many people will have good opportunities in their working life by strengthening public responsibility for the placement of jobs. We don't get a majority for any of this in today's debate. However, the proposals should be clear, so that workers notice the difference from day one if the Workers' Party comes into government after the next harvest. Then there's going to be a way in the vault. With that, I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind. Can I make a small adjustment to a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4187	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4192	As a cohabitant of a resident registered in Telemark, I am obliged to point out that, in the case of county names in the proposal – I do not remember exactly the number of it – which is about as an immediate measure to impose a ban on rentals in the Oslo, Viken and Vestfold counties, it should also read ‘and Telemark’. Then, hopefully, it'll be corrected in the minutes, and we can go to a peaceful Christmas party after this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4197	The representative of Arild Grande has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's important that you keep the house peace around.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4204	I'm also glad that the previous speaker gets a nice Christmas, but I think it might have been reasonable of the previous speaker to move a little outside this house and outside Youngstorget, for the husband of black painting of what the labour market really is, it's rare to hear. You get the impression that everything is terrible, everything has gone in the wrong direction, nobody is doing well at work, everyone is being exploited, etc. That's not the real world, and that's why I recommend the representative of Grande to be something more outside this house as well. The issues we are now dealing with have been raised several times in recent years. At my discretion, the proposals paint a picture of a working life that reflects little fact and give a little lucky picture of employers most, work and the labour market as a whole. I would therefore like to say a little about some of the proposals. The general rule in Norwegian working life is full, permanent jobs. The majority in this room has even underlined the general rule several times, including by clarifying the working environment law. Actual numbers also show that the main rule is fixed. It is not that temporary or involuntary part-time jobs are widespread and therefore a major problem. The proportion of temporary employees has not increased significantly but has remained more or less still for many years. The proportion of employees in involuntary part-time is low. In order to provide those with low job breaks who wish to expand their job breaks, the government, together with the Progress Party, has also decided that full-time and part-time jobs should be given priority as far as possible. Access to temporary employment is primarily a good thing both for enterprises and for those outside the labour market. It provides the necessary flexibility for businesses, but also a good opportunity to work for those who have gaps in the CV or lack formal competence. We know that about half of all those in temporary employment are offered a permanent job within one year. That's good. By stating that everyone should have a firm, whole position from day one, a risk of closing the door completely too many. At least it doesn't want the Progress Party to be in it. We have many people who are out of work, who can and will try something for periods, or who may need to try an alternative job in which they may lack some formal education to try out. Therefore, it is important to have this flexibility in the regulatory framework. Then again, there is a claim that the manning industry represents a large number of unprofessional actors, and that renting only means problems and therefore must be banned. Neither is it an opinion I share. It is true that there have been several unprofessional operators in the manning industry and also in other areas of Norwegian working life. There has been an excessive level of rentals in some industries and in some regional markets. Therefore, tightened rules were also adopted for renting, contracts for employees and, in particular, the enforcement competence of the Labour Inspectorate for the rental problem relatively recently. However, it is not that the manning industry or renting in general is a problem. Temporary agency rentals have been on a national scale over time: only between 1.5 and 2 pst. of the annual works. There is nothing to suggest that neither prohibition nor further tightening is necessary now – on the contrary. Finally, however, the Progress Party supports the proposal to strengthen labour skills in Nav and their role as employment services. It is essential that those who are closest to the candidates without work have sufficient knowledge of the labour market, skills to identify and find good matches between employers and candidates. Although the labour market competence in Nav has been strengthened several times in recent years, we believe that this is a good proposal to strengthen it further. The Norwegian labour force and the Norwegian labour market are mainly working well. We must then strengthen what is good, and hatch out the unprofessional, not take all the serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4223	I'm taking up the proposal of the Center Party. Mr. Hagerup can refer the person who had the sense of the Centre Party to me for a talk, and talk to the responsible one. I can also report that a very skilled builder at Obere Eiker, with a very large number of employees, took a phone call to me and thanks to the efforts of the Center Party for permanent employment and apprentices, because it provided a level playing field. So he was very pleased with the efforts of the Center Party. The centre party has a thorough note in the Innst. 97 L. It includes both document 8:21 LS and document 8:12 S of the Red Party. In the notes we give a story about the tightening up of crew companies. It started with NHO Service and Handel, who had made a contract for crew companies called ‘Fixed employment without pay between jobs’. It wasn't a decent contract, because it was a layman's contract. This led to tightening up – and thank you for that. In the present setting, the Central Party supports the proposal that the first paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act can only be used in accordance with temporary employment under Section 14-9, second paragraph, point (b), i.e. vicariates. We know that the personnel companies must have permanent employees. They do not have to be full-time employees, but they have to be permanent employees, and when we clarify the first paragraph of Section 14-12 in this way, they can only be used in conjunction with vicariates, not in relation to stoppages. Worktops must cover enterprises through, for example, temporary or contract contracts. The central party supports the proposal on collective redress, § 17-1 new fifth paragraph of the Working Environment Act, in order to balance the conditions of labour force. This is the whole basic principle of the model that we have had in Norway, and that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have been united, namely to have a balanced relationship of power between the buyer and the seller, even in terms of labour. We support the proposal to remove the second paragraph of point (f) of Section 14-9 of the Working Environment Act, i.e. the general possibility of temporary employment in the Working Environment Act. There's a paragraph that's been used little, it's not necessary, and it's a completely wrong paragraph, because we have to have a strict framework for the use of temporary employment – predictable and fair. We support the proposal for an immediate measure prohibiting the hiring-in of labour in non-production enterprises at construction sites in Oslo, Viken, Vestfold and Telemark counties, cf. the fifth paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Environmental Protection Act. Then we end up with proposal No. 4 in the Red Paper. I want to commend Red for that proposal, because it is a cross-sectional rule that is to be incorporated into the Working Environment Act according to the tax law. It aims to cut across the industries that exploit grey areas in the law to powder responsibility for who is the real employer. This is not least important in aviation, and there is a good example of Wizz Air, where they use professionals who are not employees but who are seafaring traders. But, of course, Wizz Air is the boss, the real employer in this case. The representative Hagerup referred to the proposal of the Central Party to withdraw § 14-12 second paragraph of the Working Environment Act, which is the large lock door for the use of manning companies, and referred to meat cutters from Lithuania in Rogaland. Yes, it should be certain that there are many crew companies that cover up the meat cutting job in Rogaland – they also cover up the slaughter job. It's so nice that Rogaland, who's a state with about 25 pst. by all domestic animals in Norway, does not train a single butcher. That's something the Council of State should think about. Consider that Rogaland does not train a single butcher who lives in Norway. We can't have it like that. That's a very good reason why the second paragraph of Section 14-12 has to go away. So we're going in for the crew companies to go out. The subsidiaries are coming in. Subsidiaries should have their place, and they should also have their place in employment services. There's good use.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4244	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has then drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4249	Almost every day, we can read and hear about concerns and stories from today's working life, about how the coronary crisis is used as a crumbling rod to create a working life with more unemployment and more insecurity for them to add. It is a well-known problem that, out of an economic crisis, there are often worse conditions for workers, more unemployment than at the time of the crisis. It's e.g. fixed hotel registrations over many years which now experience that they have been cancelled in favour of being added with looser ties, shorter contracts and shorter industry experience. If we are to stop the increasing inequality and ensure a safe working life for the future, we must give priority to that. But this government repeatedly says no to stricter demands on the companies that accept, for example. crisis aid in connection with the coronary apathy. In addition, the ABE reforms, public-sector cheeses, which, according to a report from Fafo, have led to fewer additions, greater work for the individual added and poorer quality of service. The Labour Inspectorate is among the frameworks of this well-known ABE reform. But not enough with that, this government and the Progress Party came last week to the conclusion that they would have additional efficiency and a so-called efficiency strategy for the public sector. So they think it's going the right way when there's more work to be done for the individual – which leads to poorer quality of the services that have been performed. Norway's high productivity is based on a working life with fixed additions and close cooperation and high trust between employers, trustees and contributors. SV is a great champion of a well-organised working life. A clean working life is necessary to prevent crime and social dumping. Large use of accommodation, temporary additions and lay-offs helps to undermine the Norwegian working life model, which we have been very proud of for so many years. That is why we are making many proposals today for a safer working life, now and for future generations, on which my good colleague, Mr Lundteigen, set such a good example. Today, the staff agency is pushing down wages to win a job and at the same time making sure that the standard of permanent employment in the Norwegian labour force is undermined. SV joined the trade union movement in the fight to bring collective redress before the red-green government got this in place. There was an important step on the road to reduce the use of illegal accommodation. This removes the right hand rule when they attacked the Work Environment Act in 2015. Collective legal remedies can prevent social dumping and ensure equality of laws when it comes to both pay and working hours. A February 2020 Fafo report shows that many companies are breaking the rules, and that thousands of workers with temporary contracts should have been permanently added. So we're going in today to reintroduce collective redress. The construction industry uses nesting to meet its long-term needs, not to take peaks and seasonal variations. This destroys the Norwegian model, by replacing permanent additions to the production companies by renting them from the manning agency. Another industry that is particularly exposed to the recruitment of the staffing agency is the health sector – and the hotel industry, which I have mentioned. Before the corona, about one third of them were added to several hotel chains as extra assistance without guaranteed working hours in the industry. Several trade unions have clearly expressed major concerns about the effect of this pandemic, about how it frames them and exacerbates their working conditions. For this reason, SV has put forward the proposals we have in substance. 12, and with this, I'll take them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4267	Then the representative Solfrid Lerbreck has drawn up the proposals that she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4272	Today I have pinched my arm many times. When the complaint sun gets too high, I have to thank for living in one of the world's best countries. Think of how biging, government and the state have set up in this corona era. Everyone's in, and now it's waiting for us free vaccines, so we can get back on the road again in the country. We must be happy for that. For most people, a firm position is to provide security in everyday life and security. It turns out that a whole of 92 pst. of those added to Norwegian business, both public and private, are in fixed settings. The Christian People's Party will limit, be the exploitation and use of temporary settings. For this reason, the Christian People's Party has been involved and streamlined, as it has been mentioned earlier here, with effect from 1 January 2019. This helps to substantiate that fixed addition is and should be the general rule in our working life, but we must not forget that there may be good reasons for temporary addition both from employer side and for individual employees. When the opposition puts forward proposals that will in practice make it impossible to work part-time or to obtain labour through the agency, this is in itself an inappropriate measure to ensure a good and stable working life. The ban line provides little flexibility in working life. The Christian People's Party believes that we have the tightness with the necessary measures when it comes to indwelling rules. Our yard still has the opportunity to hire the necessary skills, our students must of course be able to get temporary work when appropriate to study, and the farmer must be able to take a part-time job or an extra job during periods when the gardening allows it. What we have agreed on is that the use of temporary settings to exploit people must be counterbalanced, but we are clearly disagreeable in the tools to be used. Crime at work must be combated, and the government has also increased its effort by 100 million. kr since 2015. A-krimsenters are created, where both Nav, the police, the Labour Inspectorate and the tax department cooperate, in line with the Strategy against Labour Crime. Forbidden line or additional restrictions on the right to use temporary labour is not the way to go. A law cannot stop an enterprise from having jobs that require additional staffing. Flexibility is also decisive to meet the manning needs of sick leave. Experience shows that temporary additions can serve as input ports for fixed addition. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has undertaken work to identify developments in the use of different forms of employment. This project will provide us with additional answers, which may provide us with a basis for more accurate measures than the resulting ban. The Christian People's Party is busy with a safe and secure working life based on good work ethics, where the most likely people who want it are offered a permanent addition. We have to think that temporary settings are used relatively little in Norwegian working life, and to a lesser extent than the average in the EU and OECD countries. Also in this field, carrots are better than whips. For this reason, the Christian People's Party prefers measures that stimulate more fixed additions than prohibit temporary labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4291	In June 2018, the Stortinget strengthened the rules of the Employment and Retirement Act. The objective of the restrictions was to reduce the level of rental and to raise the proportion of permanent employees. The staffing industry and the NHO have had time to follow up the decision, and they have spent a good time trying to circumvent the law – first by introducing very small job breaks and now with a completely new rental model. Now, when we see that the size of rentals in the construction industry in the Oslo region is finally falling, the NHO Service Company proudly launches a new rental model that they call manning recruitment. Now follow: The model is that the manning company recruits tenants for so-called permanent jobs in the tenancy company, but it is the manning company that stands for both up and down. In this way, the employment agency takes decisions on the employer’s part and hence on the employer’s responsibility for people employed in a company other than the manning company. It sounds a little weird. That's because it's very strange, an obvious circumvention of the new rental rules and also a circumvention of the general rule in the law that people should be hired permanently. This, of course, also implies a powdering of employers' responsibilities. So what we've seen is a boundless creativity from the manning industry in bypassing the laws and regulations that Stortinget adopts. This industry is in breach of the Working Environment Act as a business model, because it lives on temporary employment. Now, the Storting must start listening to the workers and to the trade union movement, who have for a long time warned that the recruitment agencies are forcing permanent employment, and that it is urgent to get rid of them. Therefore, we are pleased that the red-green parties have finally gathered on our proposal that the manning industry should leave the construction sites around the Oslofjord, where the problems of rental are the greatest. The beauty of the proposal is that it does not have the loopholes that we often see. Bureaux shall leave construction sites – point. This will be Norwegian law when we win the election next year. So I have to say that when we reduce the amount of rent, there is reason to believe that the amount of temporary employment is increasing. Therefore, general access to temporary employment also needs to be removed in order to address this problem. In addition, employers' responsibilities need to be strengthened and clarified, because in a number of industries, employers are not taking responsibility for the rights of employees. We'll see about Uber, with the franchise model, with the so-called Aleris case. It is therefore important, but also gratifying, that the Red-Greens support our bill that a person should be regarded as an employee if the purpose of the law has been to circumvent the rights in full or in part, or if the person needs the rights conferred by the Work Environment Act. It's not least because we see what's happening in other countries, both close and further away. In California, Uber recently won the prize with the proposal to deny drivers his employee rights. They spent two billion. kr on the campaign to get this through in California and ensure continued rightsless drivers. In Norway, we're going to go the other way. As soon as we get a new large number – then with a historically strong Red – we will stop the development with more and more unwork, and the Uber model will be banned. We need to do a lot of things at the same time to ensure employees' rights. The agencies have to get out of here. We need to tighten up the law and strengthen employers' responsibilities in order to reverse attempts to circumvent the new rental rules and to ensure that the general rule of law, that people have permanent employment, is actually followed. It is no surprise that the government parties and the Progress Party are voting down our proposal, but that the red-greens are now gathered about powerful measures that will strengthen the rights of workers, are very important and very good. It points towards a healthier working life in just a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4310	There is a broad consensus that fixed employment should be the general rule in Norwegian working life. Fixed employment is also the general rule in practice. Fafo and the Institute for Social Research estimate that 1.5-2 pst. by all annual works are carried out by hired workers. The introduction of general access to temporary employment in 2015 also does not appear to have led to a lasting increase in the proportion of temporary employment. The share of temporary employees follows the business cycle and was in 2013, according to Statistical Central Bureau of 8.8 p.m. in the third quarter, against 8,5 pst. in the third quarter of this year. Access to rentals was tightened with effect from 1 January 2019 to meet challenges related to increasing rentals and to underpin the general rule of fixed and direct employment. A definition of the concept of permanent employment was also introduced to clarify that this requires real job protection and predictability for the scope of work. Figures from the NHO Service and Trade crew industry show that the rental activity of the construction industry in the fourth quarter of 2019 fell by more than 25 pst. in relation to the previous year. In Oslo, the total decline was 36 p.m. In my view, the decline indicates that the tightening has had an effect. Further tightening, possibly a general ban on rentals, as proposed by the representatives, I do not think it is appropriate and will give too little flexibility, among other things. as regards the need for enterprises to avoid stoppages. Restrictions could also be imposed on permanent employees, for example: by the loss of the ability of establishments to undertake their duties. With effect from 1 July of this year, enforcement of the rules on lease-in has been strengthened by the powers of the Labour Inspectorate, the Petroleum Authority and the Air Safety and Health Authority to supervise rules and impose obligations in the event of infringements. In the State budget for 2021, the Government proposes to increase the appropriations allocated to the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate to follow-up. In my view, the reintroduction of collective redress rights, as some representatives call for, is of little use now when there is a strengthened public enforcement system in this area. The scheme, which was in force between 2013 and 2015, was also very much under discussion. Several pointed out that it broke with basic principles in our legal system, and it was also little used in practice. Several of the representatives’ proposals in the vote are aimed at circumventing employers’ responsibilities. I want to show here that the government has set up a party-based sample of the future's working life. The committee shall review the framework for the different forms of association of those carrying out work and the framework for the responsibilities of employers and the organisation of work and activities. The committee shall deliver its opinion by 1 June 2021. The Ministry has also launched a research project to identify developments in the use of different forms of employment. Here, the scope and evolution of the use of, inter alia, rentals from manning enterprises are illuminated by analysis of register data and sample surveys. The first results are presented this autumn. It is important to look at these fundamental issues in a wider context and in cooperation with the social partners. The government is therefore closely following developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4329	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4334	The Council of State says in its statement that he sees little reason to reintroduce collective redress. He also answers that question in response to a written question from the undersigned, following the recent EU judgment, to which I will come back in a later question. In the proposition, when the government promoted the strengthening of the enforcement of the rental rules, the Ministry wrote: ‘Few cases appear to be pending before the courts. In this context, employees may be persons who are partially out of work with little resources. Many of the tenants also have a linguistic background and are little organized. Fear of creating conflict and missing out on future assignments may also be contributing to the employee's choosing not to invoke a breach.' When we know how cheap collective redress is, and how effective it can be to strengthen the rights of employees: why is the government so reluctant to reintroduce collective redress?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4346	As I said in my post, it was also discussed this breach with some basic principles of law, but it is not that we do nothing else. For example, we are strengthening. The Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate to ensure that they can enforce the rules, and we have also given them the right to check and order if these rules are not complied with. Because I fully agree with the problem description. First of all, I would recommend that a lot of people get organized, because that's a very wise way to be able to stand together. Trade unions may also set up and assist members facing such challenges. But what we're doing now is strengthening the Labour Inspectorate, both through law and with money, to make sure they can intervene where the kind of accommodation is going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4353	The call to organise seems to be a bit hollow when the government has made it more expensive to be a member of a trade union year after year. There will be a later debate between us. The question on which I have written a written letter to the Council of State, on which I was in the previous line, referred to a recent judgment of 14 October from the Court of Justice of the European Union, which says that Member States should ensure that they have provisions to prevent rentals from replacing the permanent needs of permanent employees of establishments. In two letters that I have challenged the Council of State whether he is willing to look at changes to strengthen employees' rights, he points to the joint committee that will review developments and any challenges with regard to the use of forms of employment relations, including renting, and that they will deliver their report by 1 June. This judgment came after the selection was appointed. Will the Council consider providing the sample with an additional task — to determine whether this has any implications for Norwegian legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4364	It's a little difficult to say on the stand if we're going to give a concrete additional task based on that judgment. But some of the whole idea of tripartite cooperation and the way we think about it in Norway is that the parties sit together and discuss the challenges we see. Let me just say this: we see some clear challenges – with technological developments, new business models and ways of thinking – that make us think again about how to regulate our working life in Norway, which is basically very good. That is why the parties are now working on a public inquiry, which is completed on 1 June. If we are to extend this mandate, I must almost come back to it. In any case, it is an important part of their mission to look at how forms of association with the world of work can relate to the work environment laws we are accustomed to in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4373	Every time the Labour Party and parties on the left-hand side propose regulations that will strengthen the rights of employees, in the employment policy, the government says no and indicates that there is a selection to investigate, that work is going on and that there is no need to do anything. But where the government will make changes, they are very effective. Look at the taxi industry, which is now becoming open to anyone. Look at what they've done to open up to foreign personnel on Norwegian aircraft. Look at what they've done to Asian wages on Hurtigruten. Consider what they have done to the car washing industry, where they refuse to participate in an authorisation scheme for workers who currently have very difficult conditions. Where the government wants to do things to liberalize working life in a negative direction, where they are very effective. Where they don't want to, but the left-hand side of the policy will, they just point to sample. Should this not be linked, so that the government also evaluates the proposals we are making, and rather waits for the proposals that will liberalise the regulatory framework in terms of the sample? Why is the government so selective?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4382	I think everyone who heard it might recognize that there was a subjective presentation of government policy. Some of the things I said in my article, which is the background to this discussion we now have, are also the constraints this government has carried out on, for example. rent. This has led to more fixed employment and a dramatic reduction in rentals. It's not like the government doesn't do things that make employees get better security. In the case of the car industry, the de facto was delayed due to the corona. Therefore, the money has been transferred to 2021, so that arrangements can be made for it. This is one of the things the Council of State for which I am a deputy, has been busy for a long time, and for which we also grant money and cooperate with the parties. We're dedicated to making sure that we actually do things with the parties as well. Sometimes it takes a little longer than just pinching things through, but in that way we also get a cooperation that respects the tripartite cooperation that Norway is based on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4394	When the hell wanted nothing to happen, he set up the first committee. I'm sure the Council of State has heard of that before. We are not against committees and selections, but we also miss, like the Workers' Party, a certain amount of action in dealing with social dumping and combating the unprofessional. I wonder if the Council of State has a feeling about the circumvention of the law that we have pointed out in our main post, namely that the crew company Stolt crewing, which is therefore an NHO company, has started with what they call crew recruitment, where the crew company recruits tenants for so-called permanent positions in the hire company, while the crew company stands for both up and down crewing and thus also takes on employers' decisions and responsibilities for people who are thus permanently employed in the other company. What does the Council of State think of such a model of manning recruitment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4401	Firstly, I think it is dangerous to view tripartite cooperation as a committee, or as something you put down to train or delay work. It is actually quite fundamental in our model that the parties sit down and look at the challenges they face and find solutions in common. This can be done because we have very responsible parties both on the employee and on the employer's side. So for the example that the representative Moxnes addresses. I do not know the content of the example in concrete terms, so I do not know if the presentation of it is correct. But this is quite naturally one of the things that is called a little scornful for a committee, but which is actually a party-based committee to present a public inquiry on 1 June, should look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4408	Yes, these are proposals that we are making, which have a background from the trade union movement. These are trade unions that stand in the middle of the struggle to ensure the Nordic model of work, that workers have anything to say at their job and are not being balded and elected with, but that they actually have a word in the team, and not least have a fixed employment, because there is a steady job that provides the basis for freedom and security for most people. So they know just as well as we do in Red that there were shipyards before the year 2000, and they solved the problem of recruitment before that time by not least renting in between the yards and securing skilled people more solid jobs without the kind of customs ball that we unfortunately see with many agencies today. I wonder if the Council of State agrees with us in our proposal and sees the point of counting a person as an employee even if the purpose has been to circumvent in whole or in part the rights you have in the law. That's what I think should be something that we could reassemble across the partitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4417	When the Storting adopts laws, they're not made to associate, they're made to follow. If that's what the representative Moxnes says, that business models are being created here that de facto circumvent the laws adopted by the Stortinget, I don't think anyone in this room – at least those who voted in favour of the law, and they were some of them by the government parties – is in favour of it. So I think it's very important that we follow it up. So I just have to say that the Nordic model we're going to take care of, but the Nordic model is also going to stand for a time when we're going to change. What is the prerequisite for the Nordic model to be as good as possible? Yes, it is that politicians in the Grand Duchy have not been alone and have adopted rules and how things should be done, such as. with a handshake to ban some industries, but that the parties have sat together and discussed solutions that can serve both those who run the businesses and create the jobs, and those who work there and make a fantastic effort. So we have to make sure that that model stands, and then sometimes we also have to put down samples that the parties are represented in, and that can find solutions across.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4424	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4431	There has been a massive cut-off in the manning industry in recent years, including today, and they have been subjected to repeated attacks from the left. It is absurd that a legitimate industry should experience this because some break the legislation. Norway is a small and open economy in an international market. In this competition, access to labour is a commodity or not for Norwegian enterprises. The manning industry gives people a job. An industry in which the business model itself is helping people in work should play an important role in getting the workforce back on track after the crisis. Many will have to change their careers. There are already a number of examples of people on leave in the tourism industry who are now employed in food and logistics. The left-hand side will now strangle this industry. It may seem that the left-hand side thinks that those who work in the manning industry get up every day with a moustache to do the most harm for people and keep them as far away from working life as possible, exploiting them in the worst possible way. It's the opposite. The manpower industry is an important bridge builder between the employee and the employer. EPSI Rating measures the customer’s annual satisfaction with the manning industry, where customers have a consistent view of the industry, which is perceived as reliable and customer-oriented. It's a shame that no more on the left-hand side also sees this side of the business. But fortunately, there are exceptions. Labour Party politicians and club leaders in Rosenberg, Roy Inge Nilsen, reject today's E24 on the left-hand side's proposal on local employment services, and he believes that the manpower industry has the right to life. He says, «The serious agency provides not only labour but also skills building, further training, training and so on. There is also competition between enterprises, which is healthy for innovation and development.» I agree with Roy Inge Nilsen on the need for good regulation in order to defeat unprofessional actors, and I believe that all of them here are, but now the left-hand side will live an entire industry – despite repeated restrictions, which must work, and which have also begun to work. It's irresponsible, it's unfair, it's unsocial, and it's extra unsocial when it hits those who sit at the bottom of the table, those who strive to find a job. There are more than 80,000 people a year working through employment agencies, who have built up solid skills in recruitment and employment services over several years, a industry that has had a tradition of employing people with varied education, different skills and lacking CVs. Forty pst. come from unemployment, and 20 pst. comes straight from the school bench. The manning industry is an important player in the inclusion process. Then we must never forget that a foot within the working life is, after all, better than having both legs on the outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4457	This matter should be a great warning to many. Should there be a red-green majority next year, the manning industry directed towards the construction industry will be thrown out of the entire East. The fact that SV is working to wind up the crew industry should not surprise anyone, but that the Workers' Party and the Centre's party are looking after is really quite so alarming. A tidy working life is the goal of all the parties, but the red-greens are obviously the most concerned with referring to new measures, and therefore they both take care of advice and actual figures before drawing the strongest card: to wind up an entire industry. Renting today, as we have heard in the debate, amounts to a total of between 1.5 and 2 pst. of all employed persons, and after the tightening in January 2019, we see in the fourth quarter of the same year a decrease in rented hours in the construction industry of 22 pst. And if we look at the timeline back to 1995, we see that the proportion of permanent employees was higher in 2018 than in the mid-1990s. We should be concerned on behalf of a concerned industry. Ashim & Whey Rør AS is a medium-sized company with 130 employees who are constantly looking for new tenders. If they lose the opportunity to hire additional labour, they lose the opportunity to participate in the competition for many projects at the same time. The result is that smaller enterprises do not dare to grow, but that large, nationwide enterprises become more or less alone on the market. Or to put it another way: a centralisation of businesses and employees, which could not possibly be the central party's policy. In the construction industry you compete for jobs, and to ensure activity throughout the year you have to compete for more jobs than you strictly need, and the result is fast that you get a lot – and too much – to do in periods, while in other periods you have too little. With this backstop, most people should have an understanding that many companies are totally dependent on the possibility of renting extra capacity to cope with precisely these fluctuations. Industry Director Even Hagelien in the NHO Service and Trade says he has a lot of problems in understanding that the Workers' Party and the Centre are in favour of such an extreme solution. If it were to be like this, it would be quite a crisis, not only for the manning industry, but also for an entire entrepreneurial industry. If the proposed measures are implemented, they will destroy the serious operators, he warns. Our job as politicians is to provide the best possible framework conditions for business and to facilitate good and safe jobs as far as possible. The opposition's proposal today puts down an entire industry and removes the path into working life for very many.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4472	Whole, permanent jobs and an orderly working life are the basis of the Norwegian model. It's important that people have security for work, and it's important that we get people to do their jobs in our businesses. Our model is challenged almost daily. A few years ago, there was a big business in the West that won the Nav offer for jobless measures, and they called for people on Nav's websites. Then there was a job description there as we are used to seeing it, and then it said at the very bottom: The employee has to set up a sole proprietorship. It was taken up, fortunately, because we can't have it that you have to set up individual companies to do work in a company that wins a public tender. We also look at the platform economy, and over the summer we have seen quite ghastly examples of how workers are being exploited in, for example. the green sector in the part of the country from which I come. So it's often said that hiring people temporarily can be a bridge into regular employment. Firstly, some Fafo researchers have looked at temporary employment in Norway, and between 40,000 and 65000 of the temporary staff are employed in jobs that are not temporary, but a wrong code is used. The same researchers have looked into whether being on a temporary basis gives a bridge to becoming a permanent employee. Then a liberal code was compared in Sweden with the strict code we had in Norway before 2015, and it turned out that there were about twice as many people who ended up in unemployment with a liberal code in Sweden, compared to a relatively strict code in Norway. So that comparison I think we have to take over. It's not like being a temporary employee is a bridge into working life. It's important that we keep the tab high in order to keep our work in order. It is therefore important to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate. The Labour Party has done so in its budgets. I also heard the Council of State say that both the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate had been strengthened in the government's draft budget. That seems to me to be an explanation, because I have just recorded that in the agreement reached between the Progress Party and the Government Parties, the budget of the Petroleum Authority was cut by 8 million. kr. For us, it's hard to see that it's a reinforcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4485	There are some attempts at scares from the right-hand side that getting rid of the recruitment agencies would tip companies. I can reassure them with the following: In the decades when – as I have heard – the country was built, there was no release for commercial agencies in our country. That's not it. But they relocated the country, they built businesses, they built ships -- it was a thriving business. It was resolved, inter alia: by employing between production companies. So if there was a production stop at one yard, they could pick people up at another yard, where maybe it wasn't the same top right there and then. It was then ensured that the competent workers were hired, that there were neat and orderly conditions, that there was no release for what we now see in a number of construction sites. An example from last year: When the new hotel for Stordalen, The Hub, was built on Oslo S, Dagbladet revealed that the crew company HS2 Norway Østfold rented out plumbers to the Hub project. The plumbers, originally from Romania, demanded the same payment as the employees of the companies to which they were hired, to which they are entitled under the law. Then the HS2 replied to remove free housing and free transportation. This is the point that the Right has never realized, that there is a difference of power between the employer – the boss – and the employees, and if you do not have a permanent position, no job security, it is a real threat that you can get the message: ‘no more jobs for you’, if you require your right to the law in force. It's not that just because there's a law that we've passed on the Storting, it's being followed in the workplace – at least not if it's lucratively economic to blow into the law, and those who notice the consequences of it really don't have any rights to knock on the table. That is why we want to strengthen the trade movement, which is the most important protection, protection and the real enforcer of law and justice in the world of work, to ensure that what the Great Britain has adopted is actually followed up on the construction sites, in industry, in the workplace, in the workplace, because we have understood what the Right has never realized, that in order to balance the employer's powers, one must have a strong organized trade movement. Then we see that the manning industry is married to the trade union movement. It makes it extremely difficult to organize, because many who do, feel that they won't get any more jobs if they take that step and join a trade union. That's why we want to clean up, ensure an organized and good rental between companies rather than free play. It will give a better working life for ordinary people, we think.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4496	Margret Hagerup has repeatedly shown, also in this debate, that she is the best friend of the manpower industry. It's okay. There are sunshine stories all over the place. Also in a desert there are oases. It's not safe we want to move there anyway. It is often claimed that the intentions are as good as what the right-hand side has done – the release of the manning industry, the introduction of general access to temporary employment, let alone doing anything with unregulated rent, unless the bulk of the population has forced them to do so. But you can ask people who are covered by the legislation, what they want. We can ask young people who want to enter the labour market. Would you rather be hired than a permanent employee? I think there are very few who answer yes to that question. Or we can listen to representatives of disabled people's organisations who were in the budget hearing of the Labour and Social Committee and who said, "Stop pushing us in front of you, right-hand side, when you say that you should have access to temporary employment." Because you're not helping us. It does not provide more of those exposed to the labour market with permanent opportunities for permanent employment. Sunshine stories exist, but I don't think those who represent the sunshine stories want to pull the ladder up, and Norwegian authorities and politicians don't want to take responsibility for those who are not as lucky and equally strong. Time and again as we promote our suggestions, the right side comes and says that we drive and black paint. Ask the trustees of the Joint Union, who we met last week, who tell with tears in their eyes about the concern of people and their members who almost do not end up meeting, and who are now afraid of dismissal because the government does not extend the law on permitation. Ask the taxi drivers, car wash workers, railway workers, people working in transport and in aviation and the cleaners that we held so nicely yesterday, whether they think the working life is on the right track during today's government. Or ask the young people if it's time to go into industries where there's rent over fixed employment. Ask the workers who lose their pensions in the event of a tender, if they think that there is a fertile path to future working life. We do not get a majority for what we are proposing now, but the list is clear on the day the Workers' Party comes into government: more people are going to get fixed jobs, more people are going to get security, and more people are going to get good opportunities in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4512	The left-hand side is constantly talking about the use of rentals spreading and threatening decent working life. We've repeated that there are challenges, and there's no doubt that they're serious, but we're doing something about that. Creating an impression of a brutalised working life on the way to the labour society has been repeated by several people here that has no root in reality. All figures show that the use of rentals and temporary employment is stable, that work crime is falling, and that most people are doing well at work. It is absurd when the representative Grande and the representative Lerbreck continue to claim that rent increases, when the truth is that it is stable. It is also special to hear the representative Moxnes talk about seeing a lot of customs ball between agencies today, and that a completely legitimate industry should be regulated by the input method. The representative of Grande has repeatedly claimed that the government is dragging its legs, but I have to remind you that it was the Minister of Labour from the Right who tightened the rental rules. The representative of Grande has repeatedly claimed that the government opposed the enforcement of the rental rules, but it was precisely the government parties and the Christian People's Party that proposed a better control over them. It is also worth noting the representative Lundtigen, who said that they would solve the working needs with temporaryity or subcontracting. I hope those parties on the left who want to ban rentals know the difference between these here and that they know that they have the right medicine for that labour market. I hope that the representative Moxnes also manages these designations when he is out visiting his groups. I understand that it must be sad for the Workers' Party that their main campaign case was solved by a right-wing government, when they themselves sat quietly in the boat for eight years. To pull the legs after itself is well something slightly different from what the government has done in this matter, but perhaps it is a bit far inside the representative of Grande to admit this. I just have to end by remembering that in the government we have strengthened the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Control, we have established seven centres against a-crime, we have strengthened the punishments, we have put in place new rules against violence and threats in the workplace, we have put in place an authorisation system for clean-up, we have improved the HMS card system and we have put in place a strategy against a-crime. We have done more in these seven years than the representative of the Grande Party contributed to in its previous eight years. It must be allowed to fight for the manning industry, which has a completely legitimate right in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4527	These repetitions of some debates – because that's not the first time we've heard a lot of the speeches that we've heard here today – start to remind me a little bit of the metaphor about the retired dragon killer Saint George, who the Australian philosopher Kenneth Minogue came up with to describe a particular type of politician. After conquering the dragon and rushing upon the honour and glory, the brave warrior travels the country and the beach looking for new honorable battles. But after the years go by and the warrior was exhausted by his vicious search for ever less dragons, one can finally find him waving powerlessly with the sabre against imaginary dragons in loose air. There's a little bit of an intervention in these debates, a sort of echo of the old singers of the workers' tube who are now standing here, long after the revolution is over, and still shouts out to raise the banners on the barricades against attacks from an imaginary right-hand side. But then it is not King Louis XVI or Tsar Nicolaj II who stands there. It is the government of Erna Solberg – a government that has kept the trade-union deduction stable, which has taken us from zero to seven a-krim centres, which has imposed stricter penalties on labour crime, which has imposed demands on apprentices on all construction projects, who cooperate with the social partners on tripartite sectoral programmes to contribute to decent and serious working conditions, which hold back organised working life and maintain permanent employment as the main rule in Norwegian working life. It must feel a little hollow to mobilize for class struggle against such a right-hand side. A well-functioning working life that ensures people's safe jobs and the state's tax revenue also depends on the Norwegian business community having the space for action needed to be competitive and have enough jobs to offer. Here it is important to find the right balance, and it is not unnatural to have debates between the right and the left on where this balance should go. But after several years of work debate in this committee and this room, it is difficult not to get the impression that the opposition is driven more by an imaginary notion of what resistance from the right is really going to be like, than the right side they actually have before them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4536	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 10-12.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4553	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4560	The corona pandemic marked the Norwegian economy and labour market strongly in 2020. Intervention has been necessary to limit the spread of infection in order to save life and health. At the same time, temporary measures were put in place to mitigate the significant impact this had on both individuals and businesses, in order to secure income and save jobs. Employers’ expenditure on leave, sick leave and child care was reduced. At the same time, there were changes that strengthened the guarantee of income for the unemployed and the outsourced, and schemes for the self-employed, freelancers and apprentices who lost their income base. Extended entitlements to care allowances were also granted and several temporary changes were made to the legislation for, among others. sickness benefits, redundancy benefits and the qualification programme. In parallel with the facilitation of infectious disease prevention measures, many outpatients have been able to return to work and the need for mitigation measures has been reduced. However, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Centre Party, points to the recent continuation by the Storting and the Government of several arrangements, such as the suspension of a three-day waiting period for daily allowances, the temporary increase in the threshold of daily allowances and the temporary continuation of an increased daily allowance. In addition, the possibility of combining training with daily allowances is continued until 1 July 2021. The reason why the majority of the Committee rejects the proposals put forward here today is also that the parties have their own proposals in their respective budgets. The Committee would point out that the proposals Nos. 3, 6, 7, 8 and 9 were dealt with under point (e) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure and were rejected. The majority of the Committee also recommends that the remaining proposals be rejected. But that is not against the proposals, it is because we believe they have been taken care of in our own proposals to the State budget, and/or continued. I go from the Committee's comments to my own comments. There is no doubt that strong temporary remedies have been needed and that there is still a need to do so. But all the grips we're doing can also have other effects than what we've been thinking about. For example, the interim evaluation shows that measures such as landfilling and government were included in the framework of the permitting legislation, probably leading to more than necessary permitting. Research from the Frischsentert shows that two out of three lay-outs come from industries that were neither directly nor indirectly required to shut down due to infectious measures, and Professor Steinar Holden said that it was so easy for companies to permit that they might have permitted more than you should. So we have to compensate those who are affected, but we should not maintain temporary arrangements beyond what is necessary. It can have other and more long-term consequences for individuals and society than the well-intentioned desire to help people in a temporarily difficult situation. That is why, of course, and also here on the Stortinget, the government must constantly assess when and how the measures are to be implemented, implemented and not least rolled back. Some measures have been rolled back, most of them have rightly been extended and extended. That is why some of the proposals in this case have been taken care of, and we therefore refuse to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4573	Since the first measures were put in place in March, the Labour Party has been committed to putting workers first. That's why we were very pleased that we were able to make a much better arrangement for those who were hit by the pandemic, than that government came early in March, when the corona pandemic struck in too full. As a result, we got better income insurance schemes for those who were outsourced and unemployed because of the corona. There were several who were included, and we have listed this in future crisis packages, at the latest in our alternative budget. Earlier today, we have dealt with a matter here in the Chamber that allows several companies to be included in the crisis packages that have been submitted. We have seen that many crisis packages do not meet well enough, and that is why we have also set out in our alternative budget that more businesses can receive support than what is in the government's proposal. That's important, because we now see that a lot of companies are on the verge of going bankrupt. It is therefore important that we manage to secure more companies also in terms of liquidity, and we are amazed that the government has not been able to put in place any more quickly enough schemes, which are now taking place in the second round. Many of the proposals that Red has put forward here, we have dealt with earlier, and therefore there are several of them that have been rejected in the inclusion of this matter, and I also believe that some of the other proposals that are here are already being rejected. However, as I said, several of them are in line with what we have proposed, and if the Rules of Procedure allow the proposals to be put to the vote, we will be able to vote in favour of several of them. Proposals Nos. 2 and 4 we're not going to vote for. The background to this is that we believe that the permitting scheme belongs to the social partners. No demands have been made by the social partners on what is contained in proposals No. 2 and 4 here. Therefore, we will not vote for them now, but we will be responsive if the social partners come up with such demands in the future. We have also arranged in our budget that we can extend the period of leave more than what is now in it. The other proposals are, as I said, in line with what we have said. As regards proposal No: 6, we have a better order, so we want to extend the period people can get a day's money. There are people who are now starting to go out of the day-to-day period for which they have had coverage. We believe it is necessary to extend that system and interpret proposal No. 6 as being in line with what we've decided before.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4584	There's no doubt that we're all committed to finding tools that can mitigate the negative effects of the pandemic we're in. That's why I'm glad it's been working well, wide and fast when the pandemic hit. In the spring of 2020, the size of the population adopted a broadly anchored crisis package that ensures the economy of businesses, the unemployed and workers alike. There is an increase in the rate of daily allowances and an increase in the time spent on daily allowances and redundancy payments. Several people who have not previously been entitled to a day’s allowance and social assistance have received it. Apprenticeships are secured, enterprises have been given financial assistance, and measures have been taken to stimulate enterprises to take back on leave. Furthermore, a recent decision has been taken in the Storting to ensure that pensioners who provide services, if necessary under the pandemic, will not lose their money on it. The list is not exhaustive, but shows that the Storting has had both the will and the ability to turn around when necessary. The Progress Party and the Government have recently agreed on both extensions and adjustments to a number of measures to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic, but we have also made a budgetary settlement. We believe that these measures are currently taking place well and do not see the need to vote in favour of the proposals in this case. However, we can be sure that we are ready to turn around quickly, if necessary. It's something both the Progress Party and the whole Stortinget have shown several times in recent times.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4593	Red has put forward a proposal for a new crisis package for workers. I have a lot of understanding for that. This pandemic seems to be painful for a long time. For very many, this means long lay-offs, lay-offs, maybe more periods in the quarantine and poorer economy. Especially now towards Christmas, this is a very heavy burden for many families, and perhaps even more for those who don't have family. Someone's probably counting now in the pre-Christmas period of his ninth month in solitude. We're not going to ignore that. Many of the crisis measures that SV had negotiated in the spring were good measures, and there is a clear need for several of these measures to be far more robust and far longer than the government has been able to cope with. If one is in such a demanding everyday life as this and is permissive, it has a lot to say if these social measures have a pretty long duration. One could, for example: for some of the measures have agreed that they should last for as long as invasive measures to protect both the public and the business world persist. In the alternative budget of the SV, it has been suggested that the duration of the individual social and economic crisis measures should be much more conservative. We must not forget that it is those who already have low wages that will be the hardest of this pandemic. They don't have $600,000 in annual pay and a chance for a home office. We have not made many proposals in this matter, simply because our proposals on crisis response are or have been dealt with in connection with other issues in the Stortinget. But we have made a loose proposal in the matter we are now dealing with, as a result of a matter in the NRK last night. People working in Norway should have rights as employees in Norway in such a situation as we are now in. The risk for these people is to be permitted without a penny in income, while they do not have the ability to go home. With that I would recommend the loose proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4606	Now nearly 200 000 people are unemployed. In March, we met the corona pandemic and the subsequent crisis with powerful measures that strengthened the social security network and prevented the entire bill for the crisis from being passed on to the workers. Then, unfortunately, it was quickly back to business as usual. The right-hand empty toolbox in time of crisis appeared, and now emptys the government parties and the Progress Party to the toolbox that Stortinget filled up and found, tools for tools. As of 1 September, those on leave have been halved in number of days with full pay. On 1 November, measures ensuring the security of thousands were closed. Now you must have earned twice as much as before in order to get a daily allowance. Several thousand will now become the maximum time for day-to-day pay and work clearance every month to come and fall out of the arrangements. A lot of people want to get on social instead. Those who are licensed will no longer receive a daily allowance if they work 50 pst. or more. As of the new year, the same will happen with even more schemes. The schemes for those people who do not have a regular job, who may be freelancers or cultural workers, have also been weakened. We see that the closures, which affect more and more municipalities, also extend in time. There will be no less crisis even if politicians decide to wind up the crisis measures – on the contrary. That is why Red put forward proposals for a new crisis package for workers, a crisis package that could be dealt with urgently and quickly put into effect. The Government Parties and the Progress Party state that there is a 'need for action targeted at hard hit industries', but both the government crisis packages and the comparisons with the Progress Party show a lack of such action, for both people, sectors and parts of the country that are now struggling during the current crisis. It's a point of light. It is that the system that ensures apprentices, for which Red was passed in March, has been continued until further notice. There will also be a vaccine, but even if it comes, the unemployment crisis will not be solved. Those who have been on daily pay this year — hundreds of thousands of people — will not earn holiday pay for the period they have spent without work. But paying for electricity bills, food and rent will be the holiday money bill of the time. I think it is a pity that the Workers' Party is behind the committee's recommendation to reject our proposal, because what is needed now from the Storting is more crisis packages and measures for people most, not fewer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4621	Would the representative, Mr Moxnes, like to comment on the proposals made by Mr Red? - He will. Then the representative Björn Moxnes has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4628	When the pandemic hit Norway and resulted in extensive closures in March this year, the consequences were considerable. Many were permised or lost their work. In order to remedy the acute situation at that time, a number of specific schemes were put in place to ease access to economic benefits under conditions. The representative of the Bears Moxnes has proposed the reintroduction or continuation of a number of these arrangements. The economy has continued to improve from April to November. Although more stringent disease prevention measures have resulted in increased unemployment in November, the difference between these measures is significant. In the first corona wave, unemployment grew 30 times faster than so far in wave number two. In the autumn, an average of 8 000 registered job seekers have left the job vacancy queue every week until mid-November. Despite increased uncertainty about further development, many are still getting a job. In some industries, for example: in parts of the fishing industry, there is a high demand for labour. It has therefore not been given that the same measures introduced temporarily in spring will now be the most effective measures. The temporary specific rules granting extended day-to-day allowances were appropriate in a situation where invasive disease protection measures led to the immediate closure of large sections of society. The need for income protection was high, while schemes that stimulate job search were less relevant. Now the situation is different, and a well-adapted regulatory framework needs to balance income protection against the need for a well-functioning labour market with high labour supply and good use of labour. It is important that welfare systems support the working line and the necessary transformation. On the basis of this, I believe that there is no basis for easing the entry conditions of the daily allowance scheme now. Some of the temporary arrangements that were introduced in ours have otherwise been continued. This applies, inter alia, to: the special income insurance scheme for apprentices who have been or have lost their apprenticeship as a result of the pandemic and the increased daily allowance rate, which means that beneficiaries are compensated by 80 pst. on the basis of up to three times the basic amount and 62,4 pst. up to 6 G. These arrangements are continued out of March next year. The government follows the situation closely and continuously assesses the need for continuation, reintroduction or any new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4643	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4648	The coronary apathy is in no way above. There'll be new infections almost daily, and it'll go up and down. We hope it'll be over soon, and then we'll get a little backlash. Then my question is to the Council of State: why couldn't we keep the arrangements going in the future, so we don't have the second month being new measures to keep track of? Could it not just be said that we are now continuing those schemes as long as the disease situation causes companies and workers in Norway to be affected by the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4654	As I was a little bit into my post, the reason why the situation was different when we simply shut down was prohibiting practices in a wide range of industries, and where the whole goal was the least possible activity and that people stayed at home. Then some arrangements were more relevant than they are now, when we really want more people to come back to work, and that businesses, as far as possible, should be able to hold up. In addition, as I said, there was an eight times higher rate of growth in unemployment at the time it is now, and we see great regional differences, i.e. the need for measures other than the type of action we had. I think one of the challenges that Stortinget will be facing is: When is the infection situation over? Because we are going to be in a situation where there will be some infection and need for some measures, but perhaps fewer measures than before. That is why we need to constantly adjust the measures we also have in the area of welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4661	I agree with the Council of State that the situation is different now than it was in March, but there are therefore 200,000 people who are still not in normal work. There are people who have now gone for a long time on a day's payroll, and who are starting to go out of time they can go on a day's payroll. Why does the Council of State not think it makes sense to make a change in such a way that they have security for what is going on tomorrow? It's not like this situation is over for Christmas or maybe for the first few months. Then it had to be better if we could make sure that people were safe for the situation they are in, just as it's important that we keep the businesses floating. Why not extend those arrangements? I do not think there is a good answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4666	Firstly, a long series of schemes have been extended, but let me take an example of something that has changed. We have introduced a ten-day employer period. It is an action that means an increased cost for the employer if you leave, even if it is not down to what it was in February 2020. Why? Well, because we want more incentives for people to be kept in work, or for people to avoid permitting unnecessarily. There are some adjustments we have made on both the employee and employer sides of industry, but I believe that the extension we have now made of several schemes, for example. an increased daily allowance has been important. Then we have to be careful to follow all the progress. As I said in my post, we're going to follow up on whether the situation becomes much more serious. It would then be appropriate to look at extensions or other arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4671	Thanks for the answer. I record that the Council of State does not answer my question directly. What is the answer to those who are now out of their daily allowance period?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4676	That's the same answer you've always given: the daily allowance period is a fixed period of time. After that, the goal is to get to work first and foremost. If you don't get to work, there are other arrangements you can get. In addition, we have now done so that while you go on a day-to-day basis, you can take education, skills enhancement, for example. Some reason why we do all the powerful work on the employer's side and the company's side is to make sure that the jobs come back, but we also need some incentives to get more people to work. That's why there's a limit on how long you can go on a daily allowance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4681	I would first like to ask the Council of State something about those who are recipients of the daily allowance and the redundancy allowance. Our proposal is that we should extend the period during which they can receive the benefits, as long as the crisis lasts. We've now got numbers from the department that show how many are going to fall out of the schemes. The government itself has also recognised that those who have been long-term unemployed, i.e. unemployed before the coronary crisis, are far from getting a new job, and they have a tough competition with 200,000 other people who have been unemployed this year, who are also going back to find a new job. So the way back is long for these people. I guess a lot of people will get on social instead, and so it's not getting a new job, to say it that way. So the question is whether the Council of State sees the need for us to extend the arrangements for these while the crisis lasts, and then we can come back to the matter when the crisis may be over, in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4688	As I also said in my previous reply, to the representative Aasrud: I think the definition of “crisis is over” is going to be more and more demanding both for the government and also for the Storting, for the fact is that even if it came very quickly, the situation will be difficult for many for a long time to come. At the same time, we see a significant improvement – 8,000 out of the unemployment line every week until mid-November. So it's that some of what we've done, first of all, is to provide increased appropriations for Nav and for actions. It also means that those who go on redundancy pay now get the follow-up they need, as it was not possible to do when the crisis was at its worst. We also have strong measures for companies to ensure that they take more people back to work, and that is an incentive to bring people back. And we've made sure that people, for example. can take education while they are on a day-to-day basis. All of this is the grip we've done to make sure that the activity comes back, and that people get into activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4695	The last thing is very important, that you can fill up with skills while getting a day's allowance. So the problem is that the long-term unemployed, those who have been unemployed since before the Corona, and who are now being pulled out of the scheme, also lose the opportunity to fill in to become more attractive in the labour market. It's like a double penalty. They have been unemployed for a long time, they lose their daily allowance, and they also lose the opportunity to fill up their skills and thus be able to get a job more easily. So I don't fully understand the logic that the long-term unemployed are being pulled out. For them, the way back to work will be much longer. What I want to ask about, on the other hand, is the question of reintroducing the holiday supplement for the unemployed, because it's not about being able to afford a seventh holiday next summer, it's about having to have money – what's the salary in June, is the holiday money. In order to pay electricity, food and mortgage or rent, those who have been unemployed, i.e. without work, in the current year, need to earn a supplement so that they can pay the bills when next June comes. Does the Council of State see the reasonableness of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4702	Let me just start by saying that when it comes to education, the exception was that you could take it while you went on a daily allowance. There is no prohibition on enrolling in education in Norway even if you are unemployed and do not go on a day-to-day basis, so that possibility is there for everyone. The difference now is that you can combine it with a daily allowance. Then to the holiday supplement. What we've done is we've said that if you've been free for more than 52 weeks, you can take four weeks off without getting a discount on your daily allowance. The alternative is, of course, that you were paid holiday money regardless of whether you were back to work or not, i.e. if you had been on a daily allowance for more than eight weeks, you would get holiday money the following year, but you would get a discount if you took a vacation while you were still on a daily allowance. I believe it was a much less targeted scheme than the one we now have, where you can take a holiday for four weeks without getting a reduction in the daily allowance, if you want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4709	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4716	I'll be brief. The representative of Moxnes was disappointed that the Workers' Party was behind the refusal to deal with a crisis package. This is because half of the proposals put forward in the proposal by the representative of Moxnes were dealt with in the past. And from this proposal to now, four of the other proposals have been promoted by the Workers' Party and have been discussed in the past. Two of the proposals, which I presented to you, regarding permitting, we are not going to support because we believe it is a matter for the social partners. The representative of Moxnes can be sure that we are in favour of four of the proposals that lie here, but they have already been dealt with before, and I guess they are therefore not going up to voting. If they do so, we will of course vote for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4724	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4741	At the request of the Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each political group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4746	In the handling of the media support message, Stortinget was clear that our job is to ensure good and relevant news coverage throughout the country. An overall committee was committed to the journalistic competence to ensure this. One of several objectives was that media policy should ensure that both geographical and thematic blind zones are covered. At the same time, we were concerned with increased predictability of both direct press support and funding of the NRC. Much of this is answered in this Media Support Act. The Committee recognises with this law that media support is important for the industry and predictability is important. There is an almost collective committee behind the notification. There is disagreement relating to two of the paragraphs. Furthermore, the Progress Party supports the underlying intention but disagrees that the media should have a different budgetary management process than other areas of society, which they will probably come back to themselves. The vast majority of the hearing bodies were also in favour of the legalisation of a four-year control signal system. An overall committee expects the government to assess the recordings made in Section 1 and Section 7, at the latest when they come back with the announced comprehensive review of media support in 2022. This concerns parts of the purpose paragraph and a previous remark on assessing a pool of competences to ensure important resource environments such as the Centres for Investigative Journalism and the Institute for Journalism, and the job they do for small local media. For the media support communication, an overall committee wrote that we encourage the government to assess, for example: establishing a medium-term media policy statement for the Stortinget in each majority period. Although the government is now failing to establish a Media Support Council, the majority of the Committee finds good reasons why media policy deserves increased focus. Digitalisation, changing business models, changes in the space of views and other rapid changes require a regular review of the state of freedom of expression, debate and media in Norway. I am therefore pleased that an almost collective committee is asking the government to give an annual report to the Stortinget on this very matter. There are two differences in the setting. It's about § 1, where the government parties believe the proposal from the red-green parties is a step away from the intention of the media support message's goal of prioritising the local media. The second disagreement is linked to Section 6, where government parties perceive that the red-green proposals narrow down which media can be granted operating grants for Sami news and news media. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and address the proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4761	The representative, Tage Pettersen, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4766	I would first like to thank the rapporteur for his cooperation. This has been a long way to go towards a conclusion, and the process of getting really out of hand when the government proposed a Media Support Council, which met massive resistance from the entire sector. It was hardly a single hearing body that supported that proposal. Fortunately, it's gone. It's good and good with an arm's length distance, but someone has to decide. Then it is better for those who have to be able to decide it for voters than for those who make important decisions not to be held accountable to anyone. Of course, we should not sit in this room or in the department and decide which individual media to support. We've actually done that before – I've been on a lot of a budget night where one party after another would have a few dollars for their favorite media. Fortunately, that time is over, and the result we are now reaching is neat and good. However, we have some divergent views from the Labour Party. We believe that the objectives that the Right and Christian People's Party also describes in the setting are better achieved if we enter into Section 1 of the Act on the purpose, also with this aspect of diversity in different editorial niches. It is not only geography that is important in terms of the diversity of the press, but also the different thematic blind zones or white spots that have been described earlier, including by the government. We are in favour of the four-year steering signals and review every four years, but fortunately we have received a majority for our proposal for an annual media policy presentation. This should be a broad presentation that not only talks about the media policy instruments and the state of the media industry but also deals with freedom of the press and freedom of expression at large. We live in a time when we have more information than ever, but we have less confidence, and we're more uncertain about whether the information we get is correct. This was also described by the rapporteur-general. There is a strong technological development that makes having a high-quality media sector more important than ever. We also believe that it is an important aspect to include that media policy should also contribute to strengthening, promoting and developing Norwegian languages. We have a separate proposal on that, which is also included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4779	The Progress Party is strongly skeptical of the political grips proposed in the government's proposal for a new media support law. We support some of the intentions underlying the proposal as an overall approach and increased predictability, but we disagree with the changes and the steps taken. That is why we are also going to vote against the new proposed law. The legalisation of a four-year governance signal implies a different and longer-term budgetary priority for both the NRK and the media than for all other budget recipients, including life and health societal critical functions, must be in relation to the State budget. We cannot see why the media should have a different budgetary management process and different predictability from the other social domains. We would like to discuss more long-term budgeting, and the Progress Party has also previously believed in some critical areas of society, but the media believe that we are the wrong place to start another budgetary mechanism. The media grant scheme is today anchored annually in the context of Stortingen's treatment of the state budget, which we believe is working satisfactorily and ensures the necessary political anchoring. It also gives room for the parties to show political differences, which we believe is good, while the proposal for the legalisation of the grant schemes that is now being proposed feels like an attempt to shield and exempt the media from general political priorities that are common in the annual discussions on the state budget, which we have seen in the autumn, where this has been a major debate. The Progress Party is also critical of the proposal to intercept the King in the State Council's ability to intervene in decisions taken by the Media Regulatory Board and the Media Layer in exceptional cases and in matters of special importance. Even today, the department's ability to instruct in individual matters is very limited, and it is positive, because it ensures independence and arm's length distance, but we are critical of completely cutting off the king's competence to intervene in individual matters of media support by way of exception. We believe that such an opportunity should be present when necessary on special occasions. In summary, the Progress Party goes against the new law. There is a lot about the intention we could have supported, but we disagree with the political grips.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4798	Serious editorial media is one of the most important carriers of our democracy. They contribute to a more informed and wider societal debate, and they control the exercise of power. It's actually incredibly important that we have them as an objective source of truth. They are needed in order for us politicians to be able to do what is stated in Section 100 of the Constitution: to facilitate an open and enlightened debate, i.e. to secure our democracy. To ensure this, there is a need for offensive policy and economic instruments. It means the media industry, it means the Media Multiplicity Committee, and we mean that in the Center Party. That is why we in the Central Party are holding back media support, and we support this bill. The majority of the hearing bodies are also positive. Multi-annual media support management signal gives us our support, as it will ensure economic predictability. The Government proposed a review of the media support during the presentation of the four-year control signal. It is a good thing, but what is particularly gratifying to me today is that a majority of the committee is in favour of an annual report to the European Parliament on freedom of the press, freedom of expression and media policy in general. The centre party should have liked to have seen that the proposal in the position we have with the Workers' Party and SV to include editorial niches in the purpose section had been given a majority. It would more effectively ensure the possibility of journalism on just niches and topics that should have had a greater journalistic focus, which would follow up even better on the aforementioned section 100 of the Constitution. We in the Central Party believe, as I said, that serious editorial media is very important to our democracy. People need to have confidence in the objective truth of the social debate, but our democracy is currently under pressure because the confidence in the media is challenged by false news, 'deepfakes' and those of the alternative media that do not operate with the same media ethical requirements. At the same time, as a result of major advertising failure during the pandemic, there is a major challenge that comes to the top of the fact that most media are already cut to the bone financially as a result of the competition from international mastodons such as Facebook, Google and YouTube. In particular, local viewers with less than 15 000 in circulation are now hit at the end of this year, since the Korona media support system hit them poorly, but also other media are struggling. Therefore, the media must now receive additional financial assistance for a period of time. In our alternative budget, we in the Central Party propose that media support should be increased by 60 million. kr, that the Centre for Investigative Journalism in Bergen is supported by 2 million. kr, and that innovation support is further increased by 10 million. kr. We do this because we believe that the very best medicine for the media industry against both the fake news and the bad economy is really good content that is relevant and that people want. Fortunately, we have schemes like just media support, which can ensure that the media can concentrate more on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4815	The free, editorially-driven press is a foundation for our democracy. The fact that someone sees power in the cards, facilitates debate and opinion formation, and provides quality news journalism for the population is crucial. If there is one thing the Korona crisis has shown us, not only in terms of getting out safe information that the population trusts, but also in terms of investigating what kind of powers the government has proposed in the face of the crisis, it is the importance of these media. One of the best things about the media industry and the media sector in Norway is the great diversity, both geographically, through large and small local newspapers and regional newspapers throughout the country, which ensure that local democracy lives and delivers, and also singly. The fact that we have meaningful national newspapers that follow in particular some industries and individual communities enriches us, enriching the debate. The Norwegian media diversity had never been as rich as it is, without the active media support policy we are pursuing, without – and directly – the media support that this law is about. In this bill proposition, most people agree on most things, and it's a pleasure. This is due in particular to the fact that the government – fortunately – listened to a rather united Media Norway, listened to the opposition, listened to sound media policy principles and drew up the proposal to set up a Media Support Council. I believe that it would definitely weaken the democratic anchoring of media policy. It is important that voters should be able to keep representatives responsible for the design of media policy instruments. We can't give that kind of decision to closed rooms. We are also pleased that the government parties support the proposal to ask the government to give an annual report to the Stortinget on freedom of expression and freedom of the press. It's important because we see how extremely fast the situation develops. We see the technology, we see big global players challenge the trust in our media, and we see not least how it cancels out advertising crowns from the Norwegian advertising market to actors like Google and Facebook. It threatens our media diversity, it threatens our climate of opinion, and we must follow it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4826	In recent months, the importance of accessing diverse, independent and reliable media has been demonstrated with full clarity. How would we get through the crisis without media keeping the community up to date? How would it go without the media that reaches out wide and gathers the entire population to do? And how would it go if we didn't have both local and national media that escape to both position and opposition, right and left, city and country, for a continuous discussion about the crisis? We see that the media are keeping the nation together, rooking open, campfire burning. It is therefore with joy and pride that we have put forward the proposal to legislate the financial support for the media. And I'm very glad that a large majority of the committee is essentially joining this in the long lines. News and timeliness media are a necessary prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy. Editorial media has an important social role as the arena for the dissemination of news and public debate. And with this bill, the government commits itself to facilitating the media to continue to fulfil its democratic role. The Media Support Act is a follow-up to the Media Support Communication of 2019, where the government announced a new model for the organisation and management of media support. The main elements of the legislative proposal are: the legalisation of the grant schemes and the social purpose of media support; the introduction of four-year governance signals for the NRC financial framework; the introduction of four-year governance signals for the overall financial framework of the media funding schemes; and the strengthening of arm's length distance between policy authorities by legislating the media surveillance and media subjects' independence in dealing with individual issues of media support; and not least the introduction of a comprehensive review of the instruments in the media field every four years. The Media Support Act is part of the government's work to ensure that we also have access to journalism in the future with the credibility, trust and quality that characterise editor-driven mass media. Predictable framework conditions believe that we are more important than ever in the light of the changing market in which the media are located, and I am very pleased that this proposal will be adopted in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4839	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4845	There is not much disagreement in this matter, and the Council of State should be commended for omitting his predecessor's proposal for a Media Support Council. But one of the places where we separate teams is in the proposal for the purpose of the law. The government parties in the Committee, the Right and the Christian People's Party, say that the objectives of media policy, among others. is to achieve a social and educational journalism, diversity in geography, but is not included in what we propose, that there should be diversity in editorial niches as well. What is the reason why government parties do not want to say that this too is such an important objective that it should be in the interests of media support policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4852	I want to say that the purpose that is defined, written, that includes the diversity that the representative is looking for. The explicit writing of ‘all over the country’ does not mean that one should not preserve the diversity of the media elsewhere. It's very important to clarify, so it's too good for the representative to address it. To what it says here: we really mean the same thing, I have to underline it. In these lawmakers, when you have the purpose section as well, it is seen in the light of the comments that have been written. It is also seen in the context of the debate in the main hall. And as I say, there's really no disagreement at this point, but it's important to have a purpose paragraph that's not exhaustive, that you don't frame up all the things that are going into this. Of course, the term ‘diversity’ also includes niche media. So we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4859	I thank you for the answer and I think it is good that the Council of State then says that this niche diversity is part of the purpose of the law, although it is not specific in what the government parties propose in the handling of the matter. We now have a situation where we will have four-year control signals. That's good, because it gives predictability and long-termity. What's going to be the challenge is that sometimes things happen very quickly. We've experienced it in the last year, with the pandemic, and we've seen how suddenly all the commercials disappeared overnight. Of course, then four-year control signals would not have been sufficient. Now we see that much of the money that was spent in the crisis package for the media is unused, because they didn't hit well enough. Will the Council of State, despite having four-year guidance signals, help the media get the help they need in 2021, so that they can get stronger and well out of the months they've been in great crisis in Norway? It has reminded us of the importance of good media, including in a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4866	I agree with the representative on the purpose paragraph, and it is very good that we have reached agreement there. Then I disagree that the arrangement we made for the media, the compensation scheme, was not good enough and not met. It is important to remember that we also set up a scheme for the rest of the businesses where – if you remember the details correctly now, even from the Council of State – these companies should have 30 pst. trading losses in order to receive support from the Ministry of Finance’s cash support scheme. So we set up an arrangement where the media were to document 15 pst. trading losses, and we also made constant adjustments to the way in which the calculation method was to be applied in order to meet the different needs. But I want to say that the crisis also showed is that we used the media. Although there was an advertising revenue case, it was also compensated for the fact that the population had a great need for information. As a result, income may also have decreased on the one hand and increased in other areas, and this has combined to ensure that no more than 15 psts have been documented. trading losses. Thus, the scheme has been used to a lesser extent than what was assumed to be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4873	I think that the Minister of Culture and we in the Progress Party share many of the intentions behind the law, but we disagree with very many of the changes and steps taken, and the Progress Party is therefore in favour of the law. One of the things we disagree with is that the media should have a different predictability and a different governance process in relation to the budgets – a more long-term governance – than very many other functions in society, including life and health functions. My question to the Council of State is: is there any other function in society that he believes has rather deserved such a long-term budgeting as he suggests for the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4880	I don't think this is about who deserves it or who doesn't deserve it. I think it's about our democracy itself depending on some values that we have to be able to turn around and fence about: freedom of expression, the Constitution § 100 – the infrastructure requirement that lies there – and free media that can do their job, which we especially now, under the pandemic, have seen how important it is. One of the media's tasks is to follow the politicians who make sure that we have this media diversity. If the media becomes a cause for horse trafficking on Stortinget late night hours – everyone who has been involved in making budgets knows how things can happen – I don't think it serves democracy for a long time. I note that the Progress Party disagrees with this, but I am very happy to see that the rest of the Storting agrees that we need to create this predictability of the media and safeguard freedom of expression and media pluralism. It's important for democracy itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4889	Even today, there is a distance between the Media Authority, the Media Law Department and the Department. The decisions taken in these bodies are remote from political leadership and government, but the King of the Council of State has some narrow access to override and review decisions if the situation so warrants. Now the government is proposing to completely intercept this possibility. My question to the Council of State is, is there any case where he sees that it may be reasonable for the King of the Council of State to have such competence and opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4896	I think it is important that we make these four-year control signals and set the framework for this. That will have been decided upon in the Biggest. Hopefully this will be promoted by the bourgeois government in 2022, and then adopted the following year. It is also the Stortinge that takes a decision on funding – you will continue to do so too – but I think it is healthy that we strengthen the arm's length principle of distance and that the department cannot intervene in individual matters. That we make the media surveillance and media subject completely independent of this, I think I'm healthy, and I'm happy that the committee agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4901	I hope that the Media Support Act can be used in the aged budget and the process there now, because I want to raise what I was talking about in the Chair instead, namely how critical the situation is for local media with up to 15 000 in circulation. I've got new numbers from e.g. A newspaper like Hallingdølen, which had 32 pst. The ad failure in ours, now they are at 25 p.m., and the West-Telemark magazine has 41 p.m. in the absence of advertising in the autumn – the Christmas months – due to the closure now in November and December. There are high numbers, and I wonder how the Minister of Culture can now contribute to providing extra media because of the closure at this time of the year, better condition, either by providing a little extra support, as he does in other parts of his portfolio by day, or by perhaps allowing the Stortinget to help with the balancing budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4906	So I also replied to the representative Giske, and I also believe in prepared Question Time a few weeks ago – we had a replica exchange about exactly the same thing: the government made a package of 300 million. kr that we were supposed to be for the media. That was the roof, we didn't think that that much money would be necessary, and we set up a system that was more liberal than the rest of business. The way I was in, if the details match, it was about 30 pst. otherwise, businesses would be required to document sales losses in order to fit in with the Ministry of Finance’s cash support scheme, while the media would only be required to document 15 pst. turnover, so there was a fairly liberal system to come under this. So it turned out that if you look at total sales failure, it was, even though advertising revenue went down, up against savings and other revenues many media that did not reach the ceiling of 15 pst. If you've made a $300 million frame. kr, I think the Storting must agree that the goal must not be to use up the frame. The aim must be to use the means necessary from that framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4911	When the Council of State talks about freedom of expression, I can't hold on. We're probably sharing many of the same values there, but I think there's a bit of a strange argument when you're still away – whether it's for art, as we've discussed before, other expressions or now press – you're going to require state support to support this. I fully agree, and the Progress Party fully agrees, that a media diversity is good, we are very happy in competition, but precisely in terms of everything being dependent on state aid to build up below these values, the Progress Party is fundamentally in disagreement. This is also seen in our alternative budget, where we, among other things, are concerned. has cut billions to the NRK and a lot of press support in general. I wonder if the Council of State can say whether he believes that freedom of expression is entirely dependent on public support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4919	Freedom of expression must take place, and it is very good that it is stated in the Constitution. Then we also have an infrastructure requirement in the Constitution, and then it's up to the state, and to the extent that the task of Storting, to facilitate that infrastructure requirement can actually be met. It is then important that we have free media throughout Norway, that we do not achieve holes, geographic holes, niche holes. Therefore, it is important that we have an active media policy, in order to contribute to that diversity across Norway. Then I would say that I disagree with the Progress Party in the instruments and the grips the Progress Party wants to take. Take, for example: NRK: I think it's a pretty broad uprising in the Norwegian people about how the NRK works, how the NRK is, what they deliver from programs, how publicising it is, and how democratically promoting and promoting it is for the Norwegian population. I think I am content to say that it is important that we have freedom of expression, it is important that we maintain the legislation for this, and it is important that we also have free media supported financially, so that they can participate in meeting the infrastructure requirements laid down in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4928	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-08.ana.ud208e4945	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
