ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e98	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For More and Romesdal: Geir Inge Lien For South-Trondelag: Kristian Torve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e120	The representative of Kjell-Børge Freiberg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e125	On behalf of the representatives Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Sivert Bjørnstad, Per-Willy Amundsen and myself, I am pleased to make proposals for the introduction of rolling average maximum permitted biomass, MTB, for a more flexible management of the aquaculture industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e130	The representative, Petter Eide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e135	On behalf of representatives Karin Andersen, Freddy André Hövstegård and myself, I propose a postponement of the demolition of the Y-block until Oslo District Court has dealt with the matter. This is a matter that is urgent and of a very special nature, so we also ask that this matter be dealt with promptly under Section 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e142	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. For the purposes of this discussion, there are the matters listed on agenda No. 80, and the President will inform that the change is due to the postponement of the interpellation of the representative Kari Henriksen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The President will inform you that cases No. 11–15 will be dealt with before case No. 1 and that they will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e210	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e224	Let me start this account by quoting one of my predecessors, Per Berg Lund. When he spoke to the Stortinge during the March 1931 budgetary procedure, he said the following: ‘I think it may be useful to recall, however, that since the government set up its draft budget in November, the economic and financial situation in this country is undoubtedly weaker, thereby making the chances and prospects for the future darker.’ [[...]] [[...]] When we wanted to welcome a new decade a few months ago, we were completely unaware of what is now defining most of everything we are doing, and the decisions we are making – not least the revised budget that we are presenting today. It is exactly two months since we introduced the strictest and most incisive measures we have had in peacetime in Norway — two months. Today we know that we may have to live with infection in society for two years. Even with the experience we've been doing over the past few weeks, it's hard to see exactly how it's going to develop, and what consequences it's going to have. The Korona crisis is a global pandemic. It affects life and health and has a major impact on the economy and jobs. The uncertainty is the most defining for the time we live in right now. For many, it's just the uncertainty that's the heaviest thing to bear. It's in the nature of man to look for the answers we don't have. In the situation we're in, it's time to answer how long we have to live like this, answer what works, what challenges we've dealt with well – and what we could do better. At the same time, uncertainty will become an even heavier should and the consequences of the crisis more serious for every day that goes, until the world again is as we know it. Time is both our best friend and our worst enemy. Is there an answer to the story? In peacetime, we have to go all the way back to the 1930s to find an economic shock near what we're experiencing now. The most important lesson from this is that economic policy is an important and powerful instrument that can help people and businesses in crisis. In recent times, the backlash in 1987 has made the deepest mark. The decline led to high unemployment and the banking crisis at the beginning of the 1990s. Then, among other things, we learned: the importance of solid banks, an experience that made us better equipped to face the storm when the financial crisis hit in 2008. The financial crisis, originating in the United States and global financial markets, also created high unemployment and recession in large parts of the Western world. And throughout the decade we just left behind, the aftereffects were like a heavy blanket over economic development, especially in Europe. From the financial crisis, we learned that it is effective to use economic policy quickly and vigorously, and in times like now, we see the value of the international work that jumped out of the financial crisis, in the supervision and regulation of financial markets. The 2014–2015 oil crisis also taught us something, including: the importance of targeted and temporary actions. At the time, the measures contributed to the activity and to stopping what could have become a negative spiral. How deep this crisis becomes, we don't know. We estimate that the value creation in mainland Norway is decreasing by 4 pst. This year, but the case may also be deeper. In many industries, the activity has stopped in whole or in part. One out of seven persons in the labour force is on leave or unemployed, either in whole or in part. Families and communities are hit. This crisis is different from the previous, and it is both steeper and deeper. For every crisis we've been through, we've developed new tools for our toolbox. So some answers are to be found in history, but at the same time it clearly shows that each crisis has its own peculiarity. That's why it doesn't just keep building on the experience and tools we already have. We have to think for ourselves, we have to think for ourselves, and we have to think for ourselves. We need to develop new tools, and the tools we have need to adapt the image we see in front of us, not behind us. The strict control measures were necessary to control the infection, but they gave immediate and drastic results in the economy. We had a bad time. For the first four weeks, we got new crisis response every week. Let me take this opportunity to thank those who made it possible, and there are many, among them the Stortinget, the social partners, business organisations, the ministries and the directorates. The size ensured rapid handling of cases, but has also contributed to new proposals and strengthened government action. In these weeks we have really known the value of trust – and the power of cooperation: that what seems almost impossible becomes possible when we move in the same direction. It will even be possible from a home office in the living room. The very first, acute phase was largely concerned with creating safety for workers and businesses: Permitting legislation was amended in such a way that a greater proportion of the pay obligation is assumed by the State and the prospective benefits are improved in terms of security of income. Tax receipts were deferred — and taxes were reduced — in order to improve the liquidity of enterprises both in the mainland and on the pedestal over a demanding period. A State loan guarantee scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises was established. At record speed, a broad and comprehensive compensation scheme for firms in difficulty has been put in place. We have also implemented targeted measures for, inter alia: growth companies, train companies, aviation, culture, volunteering, sport, brewery, process industry, students and apprentices. Today, in the revised national budget, we are presenting new measures – measures that contribute to activity across the country, and security and support to those who need it: Strong municipalities and county municipalities are essential for good schools, welfare services and activity throughout the country. The outbreak of the virus has also affected them financially. Income has decreased, and expenditure has increased, especially for infectious diseases and health care. We have already adopted various measures to compensate for this, and today we are proposing even more. Lower expected price and salary growth will also strengthen the finances of municipalities. Overall, this means that the municipal sector is compensated for the effects of the virus outbreak, as the picture now looks – but the picture may change, and there may be a need to do more. The government will set up a working group with the KS, and the group will monitor the impact of the coronary crisis on the municipal sector. We're proposing a 500-million package of skills. kr to higher education and vocational training places. This is an important investment in our youth and future competent labour force. The initiative is the first part of the ‘Education Commitment 2020’ competence package, which will be reinforced by several actions in a few weeks’ time. In the last few months, many people have learned what opportunities it gives the school with digital tools. We want to make it possible for digital education to have a central place in school in the future, and therefore propose a further 140 million. kr for further bet on this. We're proposing 400 million. to a separate package of measures for vulnerable children and young people, for closer follow-up of students who have lost valuable education and training, and for increased commitment to health care and activities for those with high needs. The society that abruptly shuts down must be ready to support children and young people when it is gradually reopened. We're proposing to give health companies an increased room for action of 6 billion. kr, such that among other things: doctors and nurses can continue the important work they do. We also want to raise the frame to Nav by 700 million. kr, such that among other things: those who are now on leave and unemployed receive the income insurance they need. To compensate for the loss of revenue in public transport and Avinor, we propose 1.5 billion. DKK to counties and up to SEK 4,3 billion. kr to Avinor. We follow up the Storting's request decision on a proposal of 920 million. kr for media compensation, volunteering, non-profit institutions and businesses, inter alia. culture and museum operations. We follow up the Storting decision on a temporary adjustment of the housing aid scheme. The change will result in some 13 000 new households receiving housing support and more for those already in the scheme. We also follow up on the decision on the reduction of the employer’s contribution for May and June. The measure is equal to 8 billion. kr. And we're proposing $300 million. kr in increased capital to Nysnø. This will give the company greater opportunity to invest in companies with promising climate technologies. As previously notified, we are also presenting a separate notification of measures that will improve the liquidity of the oil industry by up to 100 billion. kr, to mitigate the fall in activity which may result from a low oil price. Combined with tax deferrals and falling income from the base, all these measures have reversed the government finances of the year. In the fall we budgeted with a surplus of 255 billion. kr, including oil income and fund income. Now we can get a deficit of 124 billion. kr. At the same time, it is important to remember that the option of using powerful economic instruments is now likely to have led to even more bankruptcy and even higher unemployment. It would have been an even greater price to pay for us as a society. But also in times of crisis, we have a responsibility to look after money usage. In the future, new economic measures cannot only come to the top of existing ones. Some measures also need to be stepped down and phased out, as it may take a long time for economic activity to recover properly. We put extra aside in good times. That's why we can also use more when we're in a serious crisis. This is entirely in line with the intention of the rule of action. But the rule of action also says that when the economy goes back to normal, money use needs to be reduced. Oil revenues shall benefit several generations. Norwegian government finances are not a Sarepta pot. We should have had more time to figure out the expensive and comprehensive arrangements we have put in place over the past few weeks. We didn't have that time, because no one was prepared for how great the economic consequences would be – not us, not business. A company does not normally have large amounts of savings in the event of a pandemic. An enterprise invests money in equipment, goods and growth – growth that creates jobs. Therefore, enterprises cannot survive for months without income, perhaps not even weeks. Norwegian business is diverse, and each enterprise is unique, whether it is: farming of fish in the north supply or travel establishments in the west; processing industry in the south forestry in the country of origin; or a hairdresser or a builder in Oslo. It is not possible to put in place measures that are equally effective for all. So there will be someone who gets less support than they ideally should, and someone who gets more. The aim of the arrangements we have put in place is to ensure that as many healthy and viable businesses as possible get through the crisis well. When I compare different crises, I try to see the big picture. But in our policies, the way we deal with the crisis, we need to look at how the crisis affects individuals and individual industries. The reality is that it is the choices of the individual — on its own behalf, or on behalf of the enterprise — that determine the future course of development. People have spent less money now, and many save more. The consumption will probably pick up as shops and restaurants open again. But how much they want to spend depends on how they themselves assess the future of their own economy, how strongly the uncertainty feels. The same applies to the enterprises. With all the unforeseeableness that characterizes the world now, there is reason to believe that many will postpone investment. Over time, the economy will change, but the transition phase is demanding, and it becomes more demanding over time. The depth and duration of the decline will depend to a large extent on how long we need to maintain infection prevention measures — not only in Norway but also internationally. It is positive for the Norwegian economy and workplaces that many infectious diseases measures are now softening. But we have to expect that the activity can be lower than normal over a long period of time. We can't avoid that. We are not just dependent on the situation in Norway. What's happening outside our borders is striking our economy to a great extent. Our trading partners will together have a decrease in the value creation of 6 pst. This year, according to the IMF. Then there is little drag help to get for our big and important export industries. And as long as the oil price seems to be low, it will weigh on oil investment and thus the activity of the supplier industries, industries which employ thousands of people along the coast, and which are on a competence that is – and will be – important to Norway. It doesn't help much to shut down the virus here at home if it keeps spreading beyond our limits. We can't or will not live with closed borders forever. And even though we can soften our own infectious disease prevention measures, the way out of the crisis will be marked by the fact that large parts of our business are part of international value chains. We're fighting an enemy that doesn't know national boundaries. We must fight that fight together. We are a small country that has built value creation and welfare on trade in a densely interwoven world. We have discovered, extracted and sold oil in a world market that has been increasingly organized for trade across nations and regions. We have participated in an adventurous development that has given better access to goods, hands, knowledge and competences. Never before have these possibilities been so great, for so many. But already before this crisis we saw trends in trade barriers, trade wars and ‘first ourselves’. Yes, the crisis has revealed vulnerabilities by being dependent on well-functioning world trade. We have to deal with the vulnerabilities, and they have to be handled. Nevertheless, this is not the time to risk a reversal of cooperation that has taken decades to build up. We need an international effort, both to deal with the pandemic and to limit the economic impact, and to prevent new pandemics. It is particularly important that the international community does not forget the most vulnerable. Low income countries are hit hard. For this reason, the government proposes that Norway, among other things, should: contribute to disaster funds and loan schemes for low-income countries, under the auspices of the World Bank and the IMF. This is in addition to contributions to the UN Corona Fund and to the development of vaccines. History has taught us how powerful the dynamics of economic trade are. There is a strong link between policies that promote economic growth and trade and policies that aim at peace, stability and well-being. Countries that trade with each other are less wary. When economic ties are tight, countries have a lot to lose on getting into conflict. In the mid-war period, the market fell as a result of protectionist measures. This contributed to a deep economic downturn. The aim of free trade is access to goods and services: imports so that we can buy technology developed and produced on other continents, while people in other parts of the world get the joy of Norwegian fish for dinner. In order to import, we have to export. We've become a richer country because we could export fish, timber, shipping services, oil and gas. Today we export 13 billion seafood meals a year, to a value of about 110 billion. kr. Fish are the basis of some of our most important district jobs. At the same time, last year we exported oil and gas for a total of 450 billion. kr. But free trade is not only important for the jobs on the base or in the coastal districts; free trade is important for jobs throughout our country. We rely on access to raw materials, on technology, on labour, and we rely on competition, to continue to improve so that we can meet tomorrow's market. Now, if globalisation were to reverse, it would be a setback to the world order that has been shown throughout the post-war period to contribute to the transformation and welfare of the world, which has lifted millions of people out of poverty. Our own history, our economy and our social structure oblige Norway to take responsibility for contributing to cooperation, trade and a regular world order. We owe that to our fellow citizens and our descendants. Minister of Finance Lund continues his statement in 1931 as follows: «Even if you never eat that much, it has been difficult to really discover the points of light that should herald a improvement – but I think that the prospects for the very near future here in the country are undoubtedly much darker. We must also be aware that in the current future it will result in a deterioration in the state's revenue, which will lead to a deficit in the budget, and we will also be aware that the consequences of such a situation will cast its shadows far into the future. [[...]] [[...]] Just as the power of a crisis is just as raw and brutal as it hits the individual, the way out of the crisis will be just as powerful as the sum of our ambitions – almost 5.5 million people with individual goals, will and action. Together, we will take Norway through this crisis and into what will become our new everyday life. The economic measures taken so far are largely adapted to a rather short-term crisis. They are targeted and will be temporary. Although we have been a little over the last few weeks, there are still some forms of activity that we do not want, for example. that very many people gather in a limited area. The measures to limit activity must lead to what economic measures we are taking in the future and when they are implemented. Otherwise, financial measures may counteract the effectiveness of the disease protection measures. We can't press both the brake and the gas at the same time. We probably have to live for a while. So in months to come, we have to get the wheels back on track, while at the same time we have control of the infection. We need to phase out some of the financial measures we have put in place and find solutions that contribute to jobs and activity. We have to avoid having unemployment snapped. Dropping out of work can have consequences for the rest of your life. And for every person who falls outside, we, as a society, also lose valuable skills and labour. Everyone has something to contribute. Our contribution must be to facilitate that companies have strong incentives to hire, secure bets and space to grow. In a few weeks the government will come back to Stortinget with a proposition about the way out of the crisis. It needs to be about new measures, which are being put in place at the right time, are on the right scale, act quickly and support in the context of green transition and growth. We also need to be able to adapt the plans continuously; the terrain can change quickly. Then the map must also be adjusted. We have experienced that in the last few months, and that uncertainty is still present. As part of this work, the government has extended its mandate to the expert group on the socio-economic impact of disease prevention measures. The group shall include, inter alia: consider how financial measures should be organised in order to contribute to a good transition out of the crisis. The success of stepping down the crisis response and facilitating growth and employment is crucial to ensuring sustainable welfare systems in the coming years. Expenditure in general government was already at a high level before this crisis. We must avoid them becoming permanently higher when the crisis is over, avoiding State capital replacing private capital. People should return to their jobs in private business, not be employed in the public sector. In any case, we will have to deal with the aftermath of the crisis for a long time in the future. It will make the challenges we had before the virus outbreak, even bigger when this is over. Therefore, we need to find ways to get through this crisis without losing sight of the long-term perspectives. We've known for a long time that we can't borrow as much of the revenue from the oil business in the future. The room for increasing the use of oil money will be smaller than before. Fortunately, oil wealth is not our greatest asset. It's the people who live here, the labour force. Knowledge and competence are the most valuable things we can invest in. The need for more knowledge, increased competence, isn't about everyone else, it's about us all. We have to spend time in the future in a good way. We know that the future will require more and new skills for jobseekers, employees and businesses. That is why we want to invest more in education and skills. We know that the future requires green conversion and cut emissions. Therefore, we will invest in new technologies that can contribute to this. Almost every day we hear about occupations that disappear, that we have a working life changing, and that automation comes with stormscrat. At the same time, technological development is only one of the factors leading to major changes in Norwegian working life. All major trends – demographic trends, increasing pension expenditure, globalisation, climate change and increased competition, together with the pandemic – tell us one thing: working life is changing. We need to have good, and not least correct, skills in the future. Let me go back to the 1930s. In 1931 Thomas Edison must have told his good friend Henry Ford: I would have put my money in solar energy. For an energy source! I hope we don't have to wait until it's empty for oil and coal until we get there. – The global community is facing a huge challenge in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The government has high ambitions in climate policy. We have taken important action. It takes something to transform society in a green direction, it costs a lot to prevent climate risk – but investment is worth it, and with innovation and efficient use of resources, we can achieve economic growth that is both high and green. We are well-informed with a plan for Norway's way out of the crisis. At the same time, we have to raise our eyes even further. We need good analysis of how the Norwegian and international economies are affected by the crisis. That is why we have today set up a selection of competent people with different backgrounds, practical and academic, and from different parts of the country. Together, they will provide us with their best description of Norway towards 2025, analyses and important input into further efforts to facilitate tomorrow’s business and green transition, in the light of the consequences of the pandemic, both in Norway and internationally. Fortunately, we have had the outbreak under control, but with regard to the economy, the greatest trials can still lie ahead of us. It's going to be demanding, for us as a society, for individuals and for fellow humans. In our lifetime, the Norwegian economy has largely sailed in downwind. Now the wind's turned. We've got an impact page. When the whole world community has to go through a deep recession, there's little drag help to get out. Much stands and therefore falls upon ourselves this time. Fortunately, we may have the world's best starting point for success. We still have solid government finances, a highly educated population, a resilient business, good welfare arrangements and high trust in each other. How well we succeed, however, depends on how good we are to choose the right actions, and whether we are able to stand in the transition. On the way to the new normal, some businesses will be lost. Others may want to be kept alive artificially for a while, with the help of the state. Someone will survive because they get the help they need. And new businesses and industries will grow, including: those who dare to seize the opportunities and fill the space that is now emerging – new markets. Private business needs to change and growth needs to come, such quantities of small industrial enterprises emerging during the crisis years of the 1930s and growing viable. It may not have been so obvious just when it happened, but it became very clear after how new ideas and new working methods helped to lift the country out of the economic mess. There is a change that provides the basis for new progress. If we manage to bring along the good that is emerging in this crisis, we can get strengthened out of this: a significant step closer to a more diverse, competitive, digitised and greener society that creates more, and that includes more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e426	The President will now, according to Storting’s Rules of Procedure, § 45, open for a short comment round, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and final statements from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e431	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the work over two very demanding months for our country. Nothing is more important than the fact that workers, families and businesses get the most through this crisis. There is no economic policy that can prevent coronary eruptions. What economic policy can do is dampen the setback by keeping the economy moving and taking care of people who need it. If people's lives go down and no one is there – no safety net, no welfare scheme, no income insurance – then the crisis will be longer both for them personally and for us as a society. For this reason, the Labour Party has been particularly concerned about securing social justice and jobs in the negotiations we have had on crisis packages in the past. There is also some reason why we were a little surprised when the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs said today that ‘being able to get a lot of people back to work now has little to do with it’. This sounds quite passive. Our job as elected people now is to get the economy back on track and get people back to work. The Labour Party is concerned that this crisis should intensify some dangerous developments in our society that we had seen in the years before: increasing economic differences between the poor and the rich, and that many had no job to go to. For this reason, we have sidelined party policy and have had wide-ranging negotiations on the crisis response. On the road, the Labour Party will cooperate across the political parties when it is in the best interests of the country. However, party-political differences are no longer present. The budget has now been submitted for revision, late last year, after seven years of under-financing of our hospitals, up to the strictest municipal settlement in fifteen years. The municipalities are an important part of the security network of people, and KS has estimated an economic need as a result of the corona pandemic that equals up to 20 billion. kr. This year, we need to do what we can to protect our elderly and health professionals who are to provide good care and care, and now that society is to be gradually reopened, this is particularly important because of the risk of infection. The people in the front line – the laymen, the nurses, the health workers – have received a lot of applause for the job they have done, but now they also have to get the jobs and basic staff they do. Now that the national budget is revised, action can be taken. Several hundred thousand are out of work or out of work, and in the future, work becomes the number one job. Then it is clear that the companies need help to survive. At the moment, there is a special trade in goods and services that have been delayed, but we also know that the oil, gas and supply industries are in a very stressful situation. The Labour Party looks forward to negotiating solutions for the industry, focusing on securing jobs in Norway, securing revenue from the state and making necessary climate-friendly investments. In addition, the supplier industry must be assured that there will be significant State-initiated investment in, among others. electrification, hydrogen, sea wind and CO 2 capture and storage. There's nothing that can happen in a few years, it has to happen now. Workers need to know that contracts are coming, and companies need to know that the strongest of Norwegian traditions, where trade unions, industry and authorities work together, will be preserved in the future. Regardless of the industry or the company, it also has something to say about what kind of jobs people go back to. Is it fixed, whole, or is it temporary lease-in contracts? Are they going back to a work life with a high degree of organisation or to workplaces where the trade unions are weak or absent? For the Workers' Party, it is quite clear that we are forced to create a fairer Norway, where more people get the opportunity to work, where firm, whole settings are norms, where trade unions are strong, and where no one stands alone. That's what we're going to work for -- that's what we're going to do. It's a time for everything. There will be a time for evaluation. That time is not now. But it is now time to have a direct and honest debate on the economic priorities we should do, and the revision of the national budget is the natural place to take that discussion. The Labour Party would like to welcome you. We look forward to constructive debates, where we will provide solutions for more social justice and job creation for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e455	Norway and the world are in a very special situation — a very special and difficult situation. It's a situation that we haven't seen our husband in modern times. The measures taken in Norway, combined with a significant fall in the international economy, together with a sharp fall in oil prices, have hit us hard. This has a major impact on the Norwegian economy and affects us all. On 12 March the Government launched the most intrusive measures in Norway in peacetime. The measures were taken to reduce the spread of the corona virus and to allow time to build up sufficient capacity in the healthcare system. Hospitals and community health services have been the spearhead in the fight against the virus. In the last few weeks, the Norwegian health system has proven itself from its very best – and it costs. That is why I am pleased that the Norwegian health care system is compensated for by 6 billion dollars. kr. It is also good that our health services, who have worked day and night for us to be safe, are compensated. I am also pleased that the government prioritises vulnerable children, who need extra follow-up. 400 million. Dr, to improve health care for our children and young people during the summer, and activities at school and during the summer holidays, will be important for our most vulnerable children. Nav is compensated for by 700 million. kr. Nav's efforts have been crucial to ensuring the income of workers in a troubled and uncertain situation. It also makes us maintain some of the purchasing power of our economy, but most importantly, it maintains the security of the individual and their family. I am very impressed by the incredible efforts of Norwegian municipalities in the last few months. Everyone affected by the crisis lives in a municipality — but everyone who takes the measures also lives in a municipality. It concerns the local business community, the families and the individual living in a municipality. One of the first things that happened was that the municipalities had to be compensated. Now the municipalities have been compensated, and are to be compensated, together with up to 11 billion. kr, if we add up what's happened, and what's being warned. Although estimates are uncertain, it is important to do so now. The value creation in the Norwegian economy has fallen sharply. Large parts of our business are very hard hit. Many people know the uncertainty as to whether the job or life's work is still there when the crisis is over. The way back is going to be long, but the sum of the measures we have taken, and what is coming today, is a step in the right direction. Postponements and cuts in taxes have been both important and correct. It has provided liquidity and predictability to businesses. It is necessary for the individual to also know that he or she has a job to go back to. It has been necessary for them to know that they can get over the crack and help rebuild the country again when this is over. During the last few weeks, Norwegian policies and colleagues here at Stortinget have shown their best interest. We have often agreed on important steps to ensure the safety of individuals and the liquidity of Norwegian businesses. This effort will continue when we start work on raising the Norwegian economy. Many of the measures that have been taken and will be taken cost and cost. But if we hadn't done these measures, the fall could have been deeper. The availability could be greater, the bankruptcy more and the way back further. We who sit here have the following problems: we have to keep the infection down, get people to work and take back their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e480	We are incredibly privileged in Norway that in such a crisis situation can spend hundreds of billions of dollars without borrowing, because we are so lucky to have an industry that has brought huge revenues to the treasury. What matters now is what happens to the oil industry in the future with the proposal that the government has now presented. Unfortunately, it does not help to save thousands of jobs around Norway. It will be one of the most important issues for Stortinget to address, namely to make the changes that are now needed to keep the investments in Norway’s main industry going, so that the wheels can be kept going. Here, the Workers' Party bears a great responsibility for what is the outcome of this case, and I really hope that you will contribute to a good result. There are many jobs around the country depending on – on the sites in Stord, in Verdal, and in many other places, depending on what is decided in this room in that case. The Progress Party notes that the estimates used by the government for the economy are somewhat more optimistic than we see that both the Bank of Norway and leading economists have taken into account. Then the concern is that you actually give enough gas in the situation you're up against, but we're finally going to get an answer to when phase 3, which is the most important thing: how are we going to save jobs over this knee, how are we going to save businesses over this knee, so that most people have a job to go back to? There are many people who talk about oil in the discussion that the most important thing now is that we don't focus on it, but that we get in place green bet. Then there's reason to remember that these green projects, whether sea wind or carbon capture and storage, are a drop in the ocean in terms of the number of jobs compared to what we're talking about in the oil industry. That's why we depend on getting oil projects that keep the wheels going. The Progress Party is also concerned about the consequences for patients in Norway. We know that in these weeks that have passed, there are thousands of people who have been subjected to investigations, subjected to surgery, who may not have gone to the doctor even if they are concerned that something is wrong, because they won't be bothered. It is extremely important when we now see the increase that has occurred in health cows, that we are now able to step in to increase the treatment capacity in health care. Then the Progress Party will use private capacity that is ready to be used, but also the hospitals now have to start and get away and make sure that people get the help they need, so that we do not risk people dying of other diseases because you have not received the treatment you should have during the time that has passed. The progress party is always occupied by nursing homes. It is simply a matter of taking good care of our elderly. Now it is possible to expand the offer, but also to start the wheels in the construction industry. That's why we want to prioritize it. Then we register that there are suggestions here not to put down the property tax. We strongly disagree with that – we believe that tax breaks are important now for most people at a time when many people and families are receiving less advice because they have lost their jobs. Looking at the border trade, which is now almost non-existent, it shows the impact when people trade in Norway – with turnover, jobs, etc. That is why the Progress Party in the forthcoming negotiations will be committed to doing something about border trade, looking at those charges, ensuring that jobs remain in Norway, because we need that more than ever. We left 19 billion. kr in Sweden last year, which is a large amount. We don't have a goal of spending as much money as possible, but we're going to spend it right. The aim must not be to increase the number of public employees at a rapid pace in order to reduce unemployment, but to create jobs in the private sector, save jobs in the private sector and ensure that we have income in the future to finance the welfare model.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e499	When we read the revised national budget today, all of us who are elected and elected representatives of big business should start with a thank you: Thank you to all those who have had the chainwork on – now for a few generations – and who do the job that day, to all the brains who have devised solutions, and to all the industry we have along our coast, which makes it possible for us to spend 420 billion. kr. We're going to use even more, because it's necessary to build the country further. Thanks to those who have done the job for us, it's been a huge effort, which makes us have the values we have. And then to something that is worrying: At the previous oil price fall, we had investments in the Norwegian mainland economy at approximately. 200 B.C.E. kr from the oil industry. Then it fell to 150 billion. kr, a powerful fall, but then there was a lot of growth in investment in housing and property. That growth is not going to come now. Nor can we live in wealth, we cannot bet on two-room apartments as a business idea for the country. Now, when there's a new case, as it looks, it's doing the most to mitigate it. Now, the numbers we've got from the industry, from the yard industry, are that we can get a drop from 150 billion. kr till about 80 br. NOK – 70 billion. kr till – a violent fall in the Norwegian economy when we know that the mainland industry is investing in total otherwise approx. 25 B.C.E. kr an average year. It is very important that we now put in place measures to ensure that this industry is safe and secure industrial workplaces, so that they can also start with new types of projects. If we now wind up this industry, it is not possible to have visions and thoughts about new projects in the next round, because it becomes so expensive and so difficult to start up again. Of course, we need oil and gas, we need carbon capture and storage, we need ocean winds, and we need electrification. There are enormous opportunities in the heavy industry we have along the whole coast, but then we have to be willing to bet on it – we have to be willing to spend resources on it. In the government's proposal, it itself writes that it will give about. 14 B.C.E. kr in increased taxes. It's important that you bring it with you, because there are so many numbers that have been up, and what's been the discussion, is to see if we can use the depreciation code in a way that allows us to get a more steady flow of investment and secure those jobs across our coast. It's important to the country, and it's important to all of us. I started by thanking those who had the chainwork on. We must also thank all the health workers who have been in the first line in the last few months. There I think the government is not responding well enough with the arrangement that is here. I do not think they respond well enough when it comes to the industrial worker. I forgot to mention that we should already have made it clear that one should have had the opportunity to permit for 52 weeks, because it had created more predictability and more security for the industry. One could use resources to run training and further training, and it would have provided security for those who have the jobs. It would have been a wise move to do already now, it would have created that security, created that predictability, and provided resources for labour market measures in order to further develop people's chances of getting back to work. So thank you to the health worker. But there is also uncertainty here, as there is so much uncertainty about the figures of Norwegian municipalities. There's a huge gap between what the municipalities themselves say, and what the state says, and some of the worst things we can do now when we see that there's so much going down in the private sector, is also to dampen the municipal sector. One in five people in Norway work in the municipal sector. Half of the welfare services provided by the state and the public are those provided by the municipal sector. These are big words, but at the end of the day it's about the nursing home place of the old lady, it's about extra education for the young student, it's about whether you have kindergarten space in the community – the basic services for all of us. It is important that the municipalities now have peace, and that the decision made by the Stortinget earlier this winter to spend at least 4 billion. kr for maintenance and renovation – i.e. building new jobs – is followed up, and that the money is used for it when the government comes with them at the end of the month. I assume that they're following up – that it's going to be at least 4 billion. kr for maintenance projects around Norwegian municipalities at the end of the month. But now there is a lot of uncertainty and uncertainty. Then I think it's amazing that the government changes the legislation in terms of the income from the farming industry in the middle of the year. One has had the system when there have been new concessions, that the coastal municipalities have got 80 pst. by the values and the state 20 pst. With the changes currently in place, the State shall receive 75 pst. and the municipalities 25 pst. i.e. the coastal municipalities, the district municipalities, loses approx. 4 B.C.E. kr in the year of that conversion. We would have needed the coastal communities and districts to have the resources to build jobs and create values close to where they live, and it is also very important for Norwegian farming that one has predictability around these conditions. And it's petty -- I choose to use that word -- by the government that they cut that allocation to Nord-Troms and Finnmark that the majority of the population decided, 250 million. NOK 168 million. kr. But to the seventh and last: Thank you to all those who have done the job, thank you to the health workers, thank you to the industrial workers! We're willing to sit down and discuss, and hope to get good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e518	The country is in a serious economic crisis, it also confirms the revised budget and the Minister of Finance, and in many ways we are still at the start of a marathon. This is going to be long. The experience of previous economic crises has given us a clue as to how we should meet this. We know that it is important that the state prepares to speed up the economy and secures and creates jobs for the future, as we came out of the crisis in 2009. We also know that the least affected are the least affected. Previous economic crises have increased the economic differences in Norway and left them with the lowest wages. Through the combination we now see, of economic crisis and health crisis, we also know that we need welfare more than ever. Unfortunately, this budget is not a budget that takes these lessons into account, and the government once again shows that it does not fully understand the seriousness of this crisis, the seriousness of the individual people who stand in the front line of this crisis in our well-being. Right now the municipalities and the kutter are in the welfare, now that we need the welfare more than ever. The government's thanks to teachers, to health professionals, to kindergarten workers and to caregivers are cut in the budgets out in the municipalities, and the people who have contributed to the work receive welfare support. It's reality out there, on the ground, in the municipalities -- in Oslo, in Trysil, in Trondheim. Those who work in welfare were there for us when we needed them the most, but the government isn't there for them. SV has made proposals to increase the appropriations for municipalities by 10 billion. And now we have to do that. In many ways, this crisis is an ideological roadblock. It shows that the welfare state also serves those in society who thought they succeeded without it. In society, we stand for each other and for everyone – the richest also need to contribute to strengthening this society and the welfare state. In the wake of economic crises, we have seen that economic differences are increasing. The revenues of those with the lowest wages are still at a standstill, as they have since the financial crisis, while they have been able to deduct with the large assets. We know that this crisis is particularly striking us, and if we are to avoid the most serious consequences in the long term, we must act now. Therefore, SV has been concerned about getting through a package for vulnerable children, increasing housing support and a more social daycare scheme. And the government follows up the decision of the Storting in the revised budget, but only so far. When it's also cut in child welfare instead of giving poor children's families a little bit more, we see the logic of the right-wing government. The finance minister says that the heaviest trials can lie ahead of us. At the same time — between lines — there is a warning against excessive use of money. It's a huge paradox that this government has spent oil money completely without stomachs in normal and good times, while it's cut in the taxes of the richest. But when we're in the biggest economic crisis since the war, then the government finds it appropriate to warn against excessive oil money spending. In the face of this crisis, we need to strengthen our well-being, and we need to convert Norway for the future. We need to create safe jobs and new ones. The government’s oil tax proposals are adapted to Norway as they were, and not to Norway as they will. Instead, we should work together with measures that provide work and activity here and now, pointing forward – in green shipping, hydrogen infrastructure, carbon capture, to mention something. Together, the community has set up well-being and business, and we're going to do that. But what kind of policy we choose to pursue now will determine whether we are turning Norway into a greener direction and for the future, and whether we are getting rid of the economic differences and making sure that no one is left standing. Then this budget is not the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e537	I would like to start by saying that I agree with the representative, Mr Vedum, that we should thank the industrial workers and all those who have built up the wealth we have today, and we should also thank the health workers who have been in the situation of the coronary crisis over the last few months. That's dramatic numbers the Minister of Finance shows up, both with the fall of 4 pst. GDP and a reduction of 6 pst. in GDP of our trading partners. It's important to remember that this hits all individuals here and internationally. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister of Finance attaches so much importance to maintaining international cooperation. Although we're going to learn that we can have vulnerable value chains that are linked to individual countries, we still need cooperation and open world trade, also in the future, and we need to build up under the liberal world order that we have. This crisis is deep, and it is going to last. There is a lot of evidence that with the unemployment we have, and with the situation of our trading partners, we will have to distribute better a less well-being in the future. So I'm glad that this government proposal puts in an extra effort for vulnerable children, 400 million. kr, but this must continue with a completely different system and in a completely different size in the case that comes later in spring, and also in the budgets ahead. We are facing a major economic crisis, but we are also facing other crises. We are still in the midst of a climate crisis, and we have a natural crisis with a great and catastrophic loss of nature, so that matter is to be brought to the attention of the government later on, must contain a significant effort for green conversion. Norway presented to the United Nations in February that we should reduce our emissions by 50 pst. towards 2030. It's a liability. But it's not just about bringing about that reduction, it's also about showing that we're going to get green growth and economic development with the climate measures we're implementing. Then it is good to clean up this matter in the situation that the states have come into, by 1.5 billion. NOK for public transport, so that we can have as good an offer as when we leave the crisis, as when we entered it. It is also good with the strength of 250 million. kr for green shipping so that the counties can continue to bet on zero and low-emission ferries and ships. I also like the increase to Nysnø, which is up to 1 billion. kr this year, so that they can invest in companies that have a good climate impact and can make money on the transition both we and others are going through. We have also made it clear that the test centre at Mongstad is being continued for the year. So there is a good estimate in the revised, but it has to point forward towards a greater green transformation in the matter to which the government is going to come back. The finance minister used several quotations from the 1930s and the crisis that time, and it was deep, and it was serious. But I would also like to stress that we are looking at the pressure against the democracies brought about by the crisis in the 1930s, because we must also stand up for democracy itself, for cooperation in Europe and in Europe's neighbourhoods, and we must stand up together against countries and organisations that are actively working to undermine the system we have, and the prosperity we are to build up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e556	The whole world is in a very serious and very special situation, and it is also asking for the contribution of the Minister of Finance. Going back to the 1930s to create the historical context, one has to know what kind of time it was. In the years that followed the speech quoted by the Minister of Finance, extreme political forces came to power. We saw it in our own country, we also saw the National Socialist Party take power in some countries, and Stalin carried out some of the worst mass deportations human beings have seen. The consequences, the economic consequences and the political answer they had in the 1930s are serious. The situation we're currently in is also serious. The budget being submitted contains new macro numbers. They're not final, but they're giving a loophole about how the economic situation develops. In this month we have figures that show that in our own country 260,000 are out of work. We see that the use of oil money rose, and that the estimate is now about 200 billion. kr. If we base a rule of action on 3 pst, it's going to be 6 billion. kr less in annual action rooms for the years to come. But this does not just frame the big numbers, it frames people, it frames families, and it frames corporations, and this will be a year that will be heavy for many. A lot of people don't have a job to go to in the morning, and even more people know a little bit about what's coming in the future. The revised national budget will contribute to activity throughout the country, to green transition and to growth and competence, which we will need to bring Norway further into the marathon of this crisis management. Activity in the whole country is being generated, and it does so when a southerly increases the lending framework against the situation facing the package travel company and Norwegian travel life, when one comes up with measures to the forestry industry and the reindustry industry, and when one ensures that the digital promise, which has been steadily strengthened through the Stortinge's negotiations, is carried out both in schools and in municipalities, to ensure that we have both the competence and the infrastructure that this crisis has shown us that we are dependent on to deal with it in a good way in the digital society that we are. In such crises as we are now, everyone becomes the frame, and someone gets the frame harder than others. For this reason, it is a good signal when one of the revised national budgets points forward to the extension of income protection measures to October, and not least when one is also adding up to 400 million. to young people who are in a vulnerable situation. Whether it is about measures to re-establish lost progress in the school age, different levels of prevention or removal and activity measures – or for the sake of the case point forward by strengthening some of the leisure and holiday activities you need towards the summer – this money is important, because it is about meeting those who have become the hardest of the crisis we are facing. When I listened to the introduction to the Minister of Finance, one of the most important things I thought was the fact that one is also looking up at what this crisis is. It's a crisis for Norway, and it's a crisis for the whole world. It's a pandemic, and it applies to all of us. We depend on our neighbouring countries, both how they deal with this crisis with their disease control measures, and what markets we have to export to. Norway is a small and open country in a great world. Difor has never before been more important to fend off the cooperation we have in Norway, in the Nordic countries, in Europe and around the world. The answer must be that we can get out of this, not that one just puts himself and his own first. Therefore, I am proud that one also strengthens both the IMF and the World Bank through the Lending Scheme for Low Income Countries, or the Corona Fund or the development of the vaccine of the things that are important. The game at Stortinget has shown great trust to each other and has done a lot of important things in the rounds we've had in dealing with the situation of the Korona we're up against. I'm glad we're doing the same thing in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e573	In Norway, we have been largely united in the management of the coronary apathy. It is an enormous strength for democracy that together we are able to find solutions to save life and health and also provide basic security and economic security for people. It is a relief that Norway now slowly reopens. It is particularly important for the most vulnerable, the sick, lonely, lonely, and for children who need school, child protection and sports clubs to see them. Crisis, when we can identify them, unite. It's an expression of trust. But when society is gradually going back to some sort of normal situation, we will also see the political differences become more visible again. In addition to Korona, Norway has been hit by oil price falls. This year's dramatic price drop is linked to the pandemic, but we know that the transition to renewable energy will also lead to new and more permanent oil price reductions, because demand is falling, just as demand is now falling very suddenly due to the global downturn. The big question is, are we going to rebuild society and the economy we had before the crisis, or are we going to build something new that is better adapted to the time we live in? In this revised national budget, there is only a small amount of money for climate action and green migration. So while we're waiting for the green crisis package promised by the government, the government is proposing today to give huge tax advantages to the oil industry. That might be the criticism of the industry, but it doesn't save the jobs. The Ministry of Finance warns that the tax advantages can lead to more highly unprofitable investments. The crisis package has a high risk of large economic losses for the community because the government has chosen to shift the risk of loss from oil companies to the state. It also makes our national economy even more dependent on an increasingly unpredictable price of oil. It is a huge gambling – with jobs, but also with Norwegian tax money. What Norway needs now is the diametrical opposite. We need to pursue a policy that makes us less dependent on oil while at the same time taking care of the jobs of the supplier industry by providing new demand from coastal electrification, zero-emission shipbuilding and, in particular, sea wind and carbon storage. Norway is rich. The fish, the forest, the sea and the wind – combined with the sensible management of oil money – provide us with great opportunities to make a green transition without having to tear down the welfare state. When the oil industry asks for money, the crowns are loose. But when the shipyards, the public companies, the environmental technology companies, the solar industry, the fishing industry, the farmers and the forestry industry are struggling, the government lacks both creativity and money. The size has to be better. It's in everyone's interest, and especially those who are young today, that the industries we're going to live on in the future get as good tax benefits as the oil industry. If we give the marine wind industry the same system as the oil industry is now offered, we can speed up a new industrial venture in Norway, and we hope that we can bring the Stortinget with us such a tax advantage to sea wind in the work on the revised national budget. In that budget, the subsidy to the public limited liability companies is increased to 2,5 billion. kr. That's less than half of what the industry itself says they need. At the same time, the government is increasing the appropriations for Avinor by 4.3 billion. kr, only to put it in context — and despite the fact that routes alone serve seven times more passengers from public travel in the metropolitan area each year than the Avinor stands for. It's totally unacceptable, and it's deadly in our time that public societies get less than half of what they need in order to maintain the offer and help people all over the country travel safely and by bus, tram, t-car and ferry. Fortunately, the compensation scheme for the companies adopted by Stortinget has prevented Norwegian business from collapsing. Unfortunately, we see that very many small companies have fallen out of the scheme, among others. because of the requirement to own funds. We will therefore be committed to revising the scheme, so that one does not lose the small enterprises that are so important for innovation, testing and value creation across the country. The changes in the permit rules have also been important to avoid bankruptcy, but we see that the scheme is not too flexible. We believe that the Stortinget must ensure that the allowance can be converted into a salary subsidy for a limited period of time, and we will continue to work on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e599	The revised budget should have been the start of a crisis programme to get people to work, with powerful measures far beyond the usual, but unfortunately the government's proposals are far too puzzled. We are in a situation where we have historically high unemployment, and how important industries are in kneeling. Then we need full crisis mobilisation, but we don't. There are pretty big sums in the government's proposals, but it's important not to be blinded by numbers with many zeros. So this is just 2 per million above Stoltenberg's rule of action. If the government believes that this is full crisis mobilisation, it shows that they have misunderstood the seriousness of the crisis. Now it's urgent to get value creation going again. Therefore, there is a need for crisis response that gives a concrete mandate to the Norwegian supplier industry, and large-scale investment in the infrastructure of society is also needed. Appropriations of 150 million. kr for low emission ferries is a good example of how puzzles this is. This is about securing a mission to industry, keeping people at work, reducing emissions and pursuing an active regional and industrial policy at the same time, but the government does not even meet the need for ferry services in half of Western Europe and stands in stark contrast to giving 5 billion. kr to aerodromes. Sanner said something wise in his statement, namely: ‘Getting away from work may have consequences for the rest of your life. And for every person who falls outside, we, as a society, also lose valuable skills and labour." That is why it is sad that this wisdom has not put greater emphasis on the revision of the budget. It doesn't keep pointing to a crisis package that's coming at the end of the month and saying: Just wait, there's going to be measures to get the activity back up and people back to work. People go unemployed now, and for every week that goes, it is a great burden for them as well as for the economy. Red also responds to the fact that the extension of a number of social benefits, such as day-to-day pay, redundancy pay and permitability, will only be granted for a period of time until 31 October, for many will be unemployed in November, December and after. And when the government now decides to pull away the safety net halfway through the budget period, that's not gonna hold. This means that many will face the future with a lump of stomach, uncertain as to how long they have financial security for themselves and their loved ones. We don't think that's possible. The government should use the revision of the budget to do two things, to say both thanks and apologies – thanks to all those who keep the wheels running, thanks to all those who experience the risk of infection to take care of the health of others, thanks to all those who have kept the kindergartens open, so the most important jobs were still done when Norway shut down. The crisis has shown us that many of the most important jobs are doing just in the first line of our well-being. We should have thanked them with a real readiness promise in well-being with at least, in our view, 10,000 new employees. They may not necessarily need more applause, but they definitely need more colleagues. Then the government should also apologize for prioritizing short-term savings and tax cuts when we should rather arm ourselves to withstand a pandemic. They should say, "I'm sorry," but they don't do any of the parts. Instead, there is a massive cut in the municipalities, cut which the government seems to try to trick away with its magic calculator, because Sanner himself says that ‘the municipal sector is compensated beyond the effects of the virus outbreak’. I would have replaced the batteries on that calculator, because the message from the municipalities themselves is clear and clear: we are heading towards severe deficits and massive welfare cuts if the Stortinge does not bring more money. In short, the government's proposals are a crisis budget in many senses, but fortunately they do not have a majority. We in Red will do what we can to draw this proposal and the budget in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e621	I chose to have several references to the 1930s in my presentation. It's not random, it's to emphasize some of the seriousness of the situation we're in now. That's the biggest setback we've had in peacetime, and that's the highest time off in 75 years. But luckily, there are also big differences. We're at a completely different time, with a completely different level of well-being, with a population with a much higher level of education. In other words, we have a very good starting point for dealing with this crisis in a good way. In the response to the revised and on my presentation there were some things that went on again. Une Bastholm from the Green Party stressed that we had been together in many of the crisis packages. Hadia Tajik stressed the importance of direct and honest debate on economics and action. I agree with both. I agree that it has been a strength that we have been together – it has created security for both workers and businesses. And I agree that we need an open and honest debate on economics and action, precisely because it can produce even better solutions in the coming time. Then there are several who have called for stronger measures for jobs and for businesses. Let me then just remind you that the government in dialogue with the party leaders agreed that we should now divide the treatment into two, with the revised national budget submitted in due course, and that we should come back with a new proposition to the Stortinget in the month of May-June. Then we come up with new measures to help Norway get out of the crisis. I agree that more measures are needed. We have to make sure that we have a strong and diverse business life across the country when we get out of this crisis. We have to make sure that we keep employment up and unemployment down. And we have to avoid that it is those with the weakest connection to work that loses: young people dreaming of a place of learning, students looking for a job, and others with weak social ties. We need to focus on creating more, but also on including more, because it is so crucial for the sustainability of welfare systems in the future. Then more people have put emphasis on the importance of the municipalities. There is no disagreement between government and grubbing-up, between the opposition and the position that municipalities should be compensated for additional costs and lower tax revenues resulting from the corona crisis. The government has provided some figures today, but as I stressed in my statement: that's how we evaluate the situation now, but that picture can also change. That's why we're going to follow the situation in the municipalities in the future, because it's important for the welfare of both kindergartens, the elderly and the whole country, and therefore we've also set up a group where KS is involved and where we're going to discuss this. The government will emphasise when we are now looking at new measures to get Norway out of the crisis, that we are also able to deal with some of the challenges that we discussed six months ago – the challenges that we saw in the Norwegian economy and we as society were facing a little longer in time. It's about the green shift and we need to bring down greenhouse gas emissions, it's about sustainability in our welfare systems, it's about employment and we need to include more in our working life, so that more people can also contribute to building well-being in the future. Then I allowed myself in the presentation – and it was pointed out by several people – to point out that we are now spending a lot of oil money. I believe that this has been important. I believe that this has been necessary. For the option would be higher leave, more bankruptcy and a longer path to everyday life as we knew it. I also see that we can get to use more. But we also have to take responsibility for the economy in a time of crisis, because the money we now spend is money that should also have benefited future generations. I thank you for the good cooperation we have had so far, and look forward to both cooperation and debate in Stortinget towards the summer holiday, which hopefully comes at some point, but first is the revised national budget, the oil package and then also the plan for Norway's way out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e640	This concludes the debate on the presentation. The President will propose that the Minister of Finance’s presentation of the revised national budget be sent to the Financial Committee – it is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e656	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Centre 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and the Green Party 5 minutes, and the Red Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e663	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation. It provides a good starting point for a discussion on relevant EU and EEA issues here in the Chamber, and we have not taken too many of them into account how important the relationship with Europe is in fact. The events of the past few months have quite brutally illustrated how close we are together, to both good and bad, and how crucial it is that we manage to get a coordinated response when the crisis strikes. We have gradually become quite accustomed to these presentations being dominated by brexit as a theme, but this time it naturally dealt most of all about the virus outbreak and the situation both we and all the countries in our vicinity are in. We can temporarily close borders and isolate ourselves, but in the long run, we can't help but say that this is something the nation states have to deal with together. At the beginning of April, the leaders of 13 of the EU Member States moved out with great concern. In a joint opinion, they warned that some crisis measures related to the coronary virus could endanger democracy and human rights. No country was specifically mentioned in this appeal, but there is no need to know very fully about the situation in a few EU Member States in order to understand what the concern is about. The Helsinki Committee is among those who have warned that, after the Corona crisis, we may have received the first EU dictatorship in the heart of Europe. The new crisis law in Hungary has received a lot of attention, naturally enough, and it is good that it is being debated. It allows the government to rule by decree and completely overrides Parliament. The person who spreads false news about the coronary apathy – and it can be so lacking, for example. criticism of how the government handles this situation — risking prison for five years. Those who break quarantine rules, too, are at risk of imprisonment, and there are many oppositionals who have been quarantined lately. But the most worrying thing is that this crisis law has no time limit. There is no doubt that it is more difficult to reach criticism of this type of action when we ourselves adopt crises that give our government extended powers, or when the Norwegian State develops an app to monitor the spread of infection, and when the Prime Minister calls on everyone to download it. That is what I say even though I believe this has been necessary, and it has been whole-hearted support from both my side and the Labour Party to the Korona law as it was. I have voted in favour of it, and I have also downloaded a stoppage on my own phone. I also believe it has been important and correct that NATO has pointed so clearly to disinformation and the dissemination of false news as a destabilising force in this situation. I just want to stress, also in this Chamber, that we need to be very aware of how our own actions can be misused to legitimize anti-democratic trends in other European countries. For our voice must be crystal clear. Yesterday we could read that Norway’s ambassador to Hungary has been called in on the carpet together with the other Nordic ambassadors because of a letter of concern to the Council of Europe – a letter that our foreign minister has also signed and resigned. It's a good thing to see that criticism like this from the outside at least triggers some kind of reaction. The country's leadership is not entirely immune to external pressure, and what we say is registered. At the same time, there is some deep concern in the way that the Hungarian Minister for Foreign Affairs dismisses the criticism, with reference to Hungary's more than a thousand-year history, as if it itself means some sort of democratic guarantee. The Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ann Linde, has been clear in his subsequent opinions that the criticism is justified. So has Jeppe Kofod, the Danish Minister for Foreign Affairs, who took the initiative in this letter. I have not yet seen the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs comment on this strong Hungarian reaction, but I am open that I may have overlooked something. I hope, however, that she will take advantage of the opportunity here today to state unequivocally that we stand by the criticism regardless of Hungary's reaction. It will be an important signal not only to Hungary but also to other European countries that are now moving in the wrong direction in terms of democracy and fundamental human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e686	Like the previous speaker, I would like to thank you for your statement. I would also like to say that it was excellent; it was concrete and pointed out. We see that the main national problems of each European country are consistent throughout with those of its neighbours, with those of the region and often with those of the continent, whether climate, migration, defence or general social security. Since we last discussed EU issues, we can now add a new threat to the list, with its origins in Asia: the pandemic that has reached us. And it hasn't exhausted its effects. That was an example of the debate in the previous case. It is natural for the pandemic to be given a broad publicity. Both in the fight against the virus and in the forthcoming economic rehabilitation, we must stand together in a committed European cooperation between the EU and the EEA countries. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was involved in a number of forums, joint bodies and pre-agreed procedures that have enabled the EU/EEA countries to meet a completely cross-border problem of a hitherto unknown dimension. At the same time, the very correct reference to the fact that there were no full pan-European procedures in the area of health, not a criticism of the EU, is not a criticism of integration, but for some of us it is a reminder that integration and cooperation have been too short in a number of important areas. Once again, we are reminded that horizontal problems across borders are being solved worse by those who insist on combating them individually. It is therefore also self-contradictory that those who present expectations and demands for coordinated health and hospital interventions in these days are often the same as those receiving any new initiative for cooperation. We still see it in climate policy, in energy policy and in security cooperation. The European West must take more responsibility for its relations with third countries and inter-people cooperation forums when the United States appears to be withdrawing as an orderly force in regulatory institutions. The Western opponents rub themselves in the hands of this withdrawal and of the fact that Europe has not yet been coordinated enough to fill this gap, and they too, I can say, rejoice over any other form of division between European countries, including within society. Despite the fact that – or perhaps because – several voters recognise the need for European solutions, we can now see that the citizens of Europe are supporting the European Parliament and the institutional cooperation taking place in the European Union. In the elections almost one year ago, European citizens elected a new European Parliament. There was a marked increase in electoral participation, which rose from barely 43 p.m. at EU level. by elections in 2014 to more than 50 pst. Now. Traditionally, it has been that people have been most interested in the composition of their own national assemblies, and I have some understanding of that. But anyway, in our neighbouring country, which has the same tradition, we see that the turnout in Denmark rose from 56 p.m. in 2014 to 66 pst. now, and in Sweden from 51 pst. in 2014 to 56 pst. Now. The increased cross-European turnout can be interpreted as an impatience from voters for Europe to engage and deal with global problems, which have become more pressing for all citizens in their everyday lives, for example. in the area of migration and climate. In addition, the relationship with Europe's environment comes, where it is important to be united and with one voice. Without one voice, it becomes a cacophony of special interests, and no one places any emphasis on what our continent might think. I can mention the close relations with Russia, Ukraine and Turkey, and in a larger picture the relationship with China, Iran and Syria. It also applies to our joint initiatives on climate change, sustainable investment, the fight against social dumping and taxation of digital giants. That's enough to catch up to. Of course, Norway’s place is with our friends and allies, but we have so far abandoned commitment to political cooperation. A misrepresentation of national sovereignty as self-reliance on the national border and beyond this indifference, or at best opportunistic picking of what might interest you, has been the driver of the Norwegian EU resistance. Although the EEA Agreement has given us access to the market, we see that the left-wing opposition continues to put its mark on the Labour Party's policy, believing that it is possible to choose the parts of the cooperation that are appropriate to one, without making it important that we can remain in areas where we need it all alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e714	President and a colleague of the fraction! Let me also first thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for her EU/EEA statement, although this time I believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is bomming with both premises and conclusions. This time it was Norway's endless use of money that was in focus. Norway always gives the most to everything, mostly in dollars and most to population — and not a little more, twice as much as the next country on the list, as opposed to what Minister of Finance Sanner claimed in the previous debate. Internationally, Norway spends money as if the source were a Sarepta jar. Well, it's no art to give away other people's money. Dealer conferences have become the new motto for international gatherings. You meet to show who's the best on behalf of others. The figures that passed through the air during the Foreign Minister's statement were so large that you almost lost your breath. As in all other contexts, Norway is the most generous nation in all ways, including in the fight to develop a vaccine, medicines and tests to combat covid-19. And we're going to take the lead almost everywhere, whether it's Gavi, CEPI or WHO. The Minister for Foreign Affairs correctly stated in his statement that pandemics do not stop at borders, but at the same time it is a fact that national states were able to take measures such as the restriction of infection. So the focus should be on their own country and their own inhabitants, that they closed the borders and asked the Nordics to come home abroad. The truth is that the World Health Organisation, with its 7,000 health experts, has not contributed much to the fight against covid-19, except for some press conferences. Of course, it is quite right that Norway should contribute to the fight against covid-19, but why should we always give the most? Is that because we're the nicest? The most silly? Is that to impress? Is it because we're the country with the highest morals? Is it to be an inspiration to the more greedy countries? Is it because we take the pandemic most seriously? Is it to buy us high-guest leadership positions in international organizations? Is it because there are allegedly no political consequences at home? Or maybe a combination? I don't know. The donor conference brought in $80 billion. kr. Norway’s contribution was 13 billion. kr. It's going to be 18 pst. of the total. 13 B.C.E. kr is NOK 2600 per Norwegian. If the other nations had given the corresponding amount, the total amount would be – hold on to – 1,300 billion. NOK, a little lower than a Norwegian government budget. Many people in our own country experience their life situation as very economically demanding. Right then the government demonstrates to the world that the money is loose for action beyond the borders of the country. Last week, Norway’s only Nobel Prize winner in physics, Ivar Giäver, entered the Scientific Council of Climate Realists. Since every climate skeptic meets the argument that the discussion on the topic is over, it would be interesting to know why a scientist like Gieves has drawn the opposite conclusion from the political elite and the entire established press. To put it with a question, everyone's going, but who's going to lead? Politician Al Gore, businessman Bill Gates, child activist Greta Thunberg, UN or physicist Ivar Giever? I can repeat Gieever's wise statements when he is asked why so many disagree with him: it is demanding for people to admit that they have been wrong, but science cannot be determined by democratic majority decisions. However, the Secretary of State’s statement that the government wants to be a driver of an even more ambitious climate policy is not surprising. As in most other areas, Norway will go further or pay more than all the others. It is, of course, the government's prerogative, but to justify such an ambition that it promotes new technology and strengthens our competitiveness is probably a somewhat bold claim – and perhaps even a wishful thinking. If this were the case, all other countries would naturally also adopt the same strategy. In its statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs boasts that Norway accepts most quota refugees per capita in Europe. Yeah, that's right. Norway receives about a year. 3,000. In addition, there is family reunification and the collection of spouses. It is estimated that the total number will be between 5,000 and 6000 people per year. In addition, Norway receives asylum seekers. Such a message may give the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister a high international reputation, but it is good to remember that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in his statement on the Stortinget, addresses the Norwegian people. Yes, many suffer in the world. Yes, the number is increasing. Yes, we'll help. I want to underline it: yes, we're going to help. But does the Foreign Minister really believe that Norway's open door policy will make the world a better place? Or does she believe, as all experience shows, that the reception of refugees leads to further pressure on Europe's borders? A common feature of those who pay tribute to the high level of reception of refugees is that they almost never have to deal with the refugees once they have come to the country, except in press releases or in newspaper columns. It's just a question of economy. The engaged people rarely live in neighborhoods characterized by many refugees. They do not live in places where the community is confused, where there are increasingly challenges related to language, culture, religion, crime and, above all, challenges in school, where their children do not go. Reception of record numbers of refugees is not seen in the context of the growing challenges facing more people in their everyday lives, but it is those who pay the price of government’s global generosity. Let me add: in these covid-19 times you talk about the vulnerable children. At least in Oslo, vulnerable children are, to a large extent, children with a migrant background, and it is clear that a naive refugee and immigration policy is being pursued, and more vulnerable children are being created. It says itself. But it doesn't come as a discussion. You take it when the facts are there; then you need to help vulnerable children. And everyone will. But let's take the discussion in advance, before children become vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e739	Thanks to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a full distribution on EU and EEA-related matters; it was as usual tidy, but also as usual a tribute to the EU. The Central Party does not agree with the Foreign Minister that the EU should be praised for having contributed significantly to the management of the Korona epidemic by Norway. If one thing the coronary crisis has been visible to us, it is that the EU did not have a coordinated contingency plan that will enable them to gather to tackle a global pandemic. It has been shown that Norway’s national State was the most effective framework for addressing an effective instrument in the face of a global crisis — and even if Norway’s preparedness was far below the satisfactory level. The Central Party believes that Norway should learn from this crisis and realise that national emergency stocks in critical areas, such as food and medicine, are tricked – as experience now is that it is by no means a good idea to put all its trust in international trade. The central party shares the turbulence with the Foreign Minister about the dissemination of disinformation during the coronary crisis. At 50 pst. of us nordics have read so-called fake news at this time, is very alarming. The digital space is increasingly being used by state actors. We see that China and Russia are increasingly trying to swear and influence Western countries. Of course, the centre party takes a distance from such awareness of the use of the network to draw a negative image of crisis management to the EU. However, it is also important that ‘fake news’ is not used as a protection against debate and a critical searchlight for the EU’s management of the crisis, as there is also an undesirable consequence of disinformation. The government has the habit of lubricating well when talking about the importance of the EU and the EEA for Norway. On 5 May the Minister of Foreign Affairs declared that up to 80 pst. Norwegian exports and foreign investment go to the EU. The export count does not match the output data completely. The EU was about 77 pst. of Norwegian exports in 2018, but half of this is oil and gas, where much of the oil is passed on to the world market via cargo bays in EU countries. According to the 2018 figures, the EU part of Norway’s total exports of 58 pst., excluding oil and gas, is the export share to the EU 54 pst. So a little bit more eugenicity is in place. The centre party has had and has a critical hold on the EU's construction of an independent defence system. Large resources are already being tied up. For example, PESCO has more than 40 different projects. Everyone has to be planned, controlled and implemented, and there is only one piece of the great defence cooperation for which France is the main driver. President Macron has also stated that France is willing to share its resources within nuclear defence with other countries in Europe. The centre party is afraid of the EU's parallels in defence will not strengthen security in Europe. NATO is the most successful defence alliance in the world, and for Norway it is not good news if NATO is weakened as a result of France's desire for an alliance where they are in the driver's seat. Norway depends on the United States and the United Kingdom as good allies. We have historical cooperation, and none of them will be members of the European Union in the near future. The centre party is often indebted to be against international cooperation. That's wrong. We are strong for international cooperation. Multilateral organisations have meant a great deal to Norway’s development. What we want less of, is transnational cooperation. That's a big difference. I think it is important that the final word in the decisions is in the national parliaments. It is those who are chosen by the people and who have to be directly responsible for their voters in elections. Norway pays dearly for EEA membership in the form of EEA funds to the same and different countries in many EU countries. We can probably have a whole discussion about it, but it's not like there's a free lunch with EEA membership either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e760	There are many people who are currently eager to draw up a new main policy conflict – between so-called globalists on the one hand and national states on the other. Within such a story, one is eager to argue whether it is right to use UN pins or not, or one may sometimes hear that the Norwegian EU debate is drawn into the following way of understanding the world: If one is in favour of international solidarity, one must be in favour of EU membership and the EEA. But this is a line of conflict that obscures more than it explains. In fact, it is possible to defend national self-determination in some areas and still work for enhanced global and international cooperation on others. That's what SV's position is. We want to regain power over the economy – from supranational institutions, such as the EU and the EEA – and limit the free flow of capital, which has created an unstable world economy and a huge growth in the differences in many countries. At the same time, we want to strengthen European and international cooperation to deal with the refugee crisis. We want to strengthen the Paris Agreement so that it can lead to a real global response to the climate crisis. And we want Norway to go ahead in filling up the WHO where the United States is moving out, and stand up to the rest of the United Nations system to counter a dangerous breakdown in international cooperation. The crucial thing for us is simply not whether something is national or international, but who its interests promote it. The social issues are crucial. The question of whether or not something contributes to solving the major crises we are facing or, on the contrary, reinforces them is crucial. I think the Foreign Minister's presentation was a bit of a shimmering detail on the EU solidarity we are currently seeing in Europe. After all, the crisis has tested it in many areas, which once again reveals quite brutally what is the fundamental, embedded contradiction of the Union project. We see it very clearly when it comes to monetary union: a single currency without a common budgetary and fiscal policy is not just a unique experiment, but it is an experiment that is terribly difficult to succeed. It creates great economic imbalances. This means that the countries most affected by the crisis do not have the means that a currency of its own would provide to get out of the crisis. And we see that the countries of the north are not willing to provide common guarantees for the debt build-up that is now going to be necessary for the southern European countries to come out. So now the euro is once again at stake. I think we should be happy that Norway is not part of economic and monetary union. I would also like to mention, with regard to the emphasis on health cooperation in the EU, that, by recommending cutting and privatisation policies in debt-laden countries in southern Europe, the EU has helped to push forward the opposite of a solidarity policy on health. The left-wing group of the European Parliament has held and has found that since 2011, the European Commission has recommended 63-fold cuts in the public health sector of the Member States. I also think it is important, when we talk about European solidarity, to re-examine with the government how Norway manages the situation around the refugee camps in Greece. This has also been set up as a competition in good morals and other strange things that come up when discussing these things. In reality, however, there is a discussion about how we are dealing with a problem that we are not going to get away from, namely that Greece is facing a challenge that they are not able to cope with and that the rest of Europe will have to deal with. This is the question of whether Norway should continue to come after or be one of the countries that is now helping us to find a solution, preferably before the epidemic starts to spread in the camps in Greece. Finally, I would like to mention that the government is now notifying that the fourth railway package of the EU is being submitted to Stortinget. I just want to ask: why, really? I respect the fact that the government is a member of the privatisation of the railway, but I have much less understanding that it will use the EEA Agreement to prevent the future majority who think otherwise, from doing so again. Now we're so close to a big choice that I think people are going to have the opportunity to say what they think about the privatisation of the railway. So my and SV's clear invitation to the government parties is: you would like to think the privatisation of the railway is right, but postpone the railway package until after the election, so people get to say their opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e777	I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs who, in his presentation, reminded us of the importance of European cooperation for Norway. The Coronapandemic has shown us that there are some challenges that we can't solve alone. Either pandemic or climate change — the key lies in binding international cooperation. In the immediate protection measures, it was natural to use national boundaries to limit the spread of infection across borders. When our societies now slowly reopen, it will also be natural to open the borders again. It is important that such a frontier opening is coordinated across Europe and is in line with professional recommendations on infectious diseases. There will now be pressure on several countries to reopen borders, but this must be done in a way that does not lead to new waves of infection. For the time being, it is important that movements of goods and services are not impeded. This applies not least to medical devices. When some representatives talk about the excellence of the nation-state in response to the pandemic, it is appropriate to point out that EEA cooperation has been crucial to ensuring the supply of essential medical devices to manage the virus outbreak. The Norwegian medical quota has made an impression on me as a Norwegian citizen and as a health professional. This expression of European cooperation is just one of many that shows that, after all, we are united in this challenge. At the same time, it is not possible to undermine the fact that some countries have used the pandemic to undermine democracy and freedom in Europe. It is of concern that we now have more autocracy than democracies in the world, and that countries like Hungary and Poland are on a good path towards undermining fundamental European rule of law. When we take the journey out of the corona crisis together, we have to do it in a way that forces, not weakens, the foundation of our free and open societies. Solidarity between European countries is important. Well so important is solidarity with the weakest and most vulnerable in this pandemic. The pressured health situation in refugee camps in the Greek islands has always been precarious. The father of the coronary infection spreading in the camps, hangs over us like a damocles sword. If anyone who can contribute, we will be able to create a better future for lonely underage girls and boys who are now facing an uncertain future. We in the Left hope for a pan-European solution, but the concern for the children is so heavy that we are willing to accept our responsibility independently of it. The EEA Agreement is the entrance to our main export market. In the coming years, access to this market will be crucial to speeding up the Norwegian economy. The EU has begun the transition to a green future driven by renewable energy. We have to follow this development and be in the forefront of the transition. We need to participate in the European research programmes and contribute to the conversion and technological development of renewable energy. Economic cooperation in the EU will become more important to us in the coming years, and the way out of the economic crisis will be through pan-European cooperation. In this crisis, the EU has been such an important player that even those who want to notify us out of the EEA have called for more EU action. Even they see that in times of crisis, it is important that we solve cross-border challenges together. The EEA Agreement has shown us how important this cooperation is when we are in crisis. Europe is not just an agency that regulates cooperation across borders; it is an idea community that best shows us that there is still reason to believe in international cooperation. At the same time, Europe is a reminder of how far we can fall if we do not cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e802	It was interesting and instructive to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs explain the aspects and aspects of the EEA Agreement and the cooperation for Norway in Europe – for good and for bad. Thank you. For me, as in 1972 was almost blue-breasted and for the European Community, but without voting rights – but the more critical in 1994 – it is good to hear what the EEA Agreement has achieved and its significance for Norway. In this case, the Christian People's Party has always stood firm, but has not stood still, in terms of improvements. The post-war steel and coal union between the three largest countries has evolved in breadth and depth, with all the world's flaws and weaknesses, yet with results showing what peace, cooperation and common goals can achieve, 75 years after the fire of the war. The Christian People's Party believes that our current form of association is the best solution for Norway. Our dependence on Europe through trade and cooperation is crucial for our welfare society. The EEA Agreement ensures access to key development and societal areas for Norway. At the same time, we have national freedom of action in the central field. I can mention matters within the customs union and the agricultural and fisheries policies, which had been very challenging for our regional and industrial policies. We also maintain a greater freedom of foreign policy. We see that the EEA Agreement also presents democratic challenges by making decisions in the EU that are applicable to the EEA area. We in Norway have therefore, with the people in their backs, chosen a lesser degree of participation. However, as a member of the Parliamentary Delegation to the EFTA/EEA in the previous period, I gained insight into the situation and learned that Norway is still being consulted and listened to as a significant partner. At this point, not least good cooperation and trust with the other Nordic countries, based on solid neighbouring traditions and a more common cultural identity, is very important. The Christian People's Party is not willing to risk Norwegian business interests by saying no to the EEA. We believe it is not realistic to believe that we can have a bilateral trade agreement that offers equal opportunities for European markets. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes that Norway should continue to use the opportunities we have to actively limit the democratic challenges of the EEA Agreement. We will exploit the EEA Agreement and participate at the same time in finding good pan-European solutions. I can mention what passport freedom means – and cooperation on migration challenges and other consultation arrangements. With regard to the use of EEA funds, Christian People's Party would like to see projects more closely monitored, quality assured and targeted. This year the negotiations with the United Kingdom will be after Brexit of great interest. I am pleased that the signals so far indicate that Norway can keep the goods that we need. I believe that Norway should negotiate with a great deal of weight with a view to establishing bilateral agreements which are at least as good as with the EU. The last two months of a borderless virus infection have shown that no country can deal with the crisis on its own. Norway has cooperated on public health issues with the EU since its inception in 1994. However, there were practical challenges, and we were afraid that countries would safeguard their own interests. That is why I thank the state councils who made sure that the Commission exempted the export licence, so that we got trucks with mouthbands, masks and disposable gloves. I would also like to thank the Norwegian medical team who travelled to Northern Italy. Just that shows solidarity that everyone can benefit from. The Christian People's Party is pleased that Norway took an active part in the EU launch meeting of the international conference to bring together political and financial support to combat covid-19 in all countries, not least developing countries. Norway and the EU agree that such an initiative must support WHO leadership in global health. Budget deficits and government debt will increase significantly in all EU Member States, and extensive action now needs to be taken. In the EU, it has already been agreed to set up a fund for the reconstruction of the EU economy. Now, as a small country, but with great resources in this difficult situation, Norway needs to follow closely what our trading partners do. At country level, a number of measures are in place to limit losses and ensure access to credit and liquidity for both people and businesses. We need to acquire knowledge of this and secure our own interests in order to promote sustainable economic activity and growth in the coming years. The EEA legislation provides for flexibility in times of crisis, not least in the case of public aid legislation, and, fortunately, ESA has responded quickly. We depend on our export markets being reopened to secure our welfare society and jobs, and without consuming our financial reserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e823	Thanks for both good input and thematics that are lifted from the representatives in response to the presentation. I'll get into some of the themes. Let me start with the cooperation with the EU, which, in my opinion and obviously the majority in the Chamber, has been good through this crisis. We have been part of many of the EU mechanisms, we have access to several of the meeting formats, including: for health and justice ministers, and we have worked together on, for example: to repatriate our citizens who have been stuck on a journey in Europe, where we have taken European citizens on our planes that we have set up, and we have made use of the EU's arrangements. In addition, we are part of several agencies, both the Agency for Disease Prevention and the Agency for Medicines. At the same time, it is important to stress that health policy is national in the EU, it is a national responsibility, but this crisis has seriously demonstrated the need for better coordination. Some of the EU’s focus has been on, for example: joint procurement of infectious disease protection equipment. Norway is also involved in the joint procurement agreement. We also see that some of the things we did, including: sending a medical team to Italy, being highly valued, and we see that in the middle of their situation, the Italian doctors spent time with Norwegian doctors explaining their experiences with the pandemic, which gave our doctors valuable and useful insight. There is a lot to say about some of the points raised about the EU response to the crisis, but if you also read a NUPI report that came out at the end of April, one of the conclusions is that for Norway, European cooperation is important for medical preparedness. It was mentioned here, among others. by the representative Tuskedal, several examples of how we have worked to help get infectious disease protection equipment, medicines and medicines into Norway. There is no contradiction between having a strong nation-state and operating international cooperation. Rather, it is a prerequisite for good international cooperation, and international cooperation is a prerequisite for strong nation states. We are in the situation that, over and over time, we have always defined our space of foreign policy action according to how good we are to form alliances and cooperation for a small nation. Then go to Hungary. I am pleased that the representative Marthinsen brought it up in her introduction. Of course, we also responded to this yesterday, but in addition to that, the letter was an initiative from Norway. I took that initiative when we had a joint Nordic Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting on 4 May. It was based on a common entry Norway was to be held on behalf of the Nordic countries of the Council of Europe, but at these times the technique failed a little, and therefore we did not. Instead, we wanted to send the letter to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. Our ambassador was with the other Nordic ambassadors in the Hungarian U.D. yesterday and presented what is known as Norwegian views for Hungary. We also made known what is our concern, that the laws do not have a time limit, that there is now a tendency for more fragmentation in Hungarian society in particular, that they contribute to that fragmentation, and that we do not see any positive developments now, because Hungary is also sinking on most international ranks that are being made. These are clear points of view that Norway has had for a long time, and we believe it is important to continue to communicate those points of view, because progress is obviously in the wrong direction. Let me just conclude by saying something about disinformation, which has been discussed by others, and which I spent a lot of time in my presentation. I think it's a very worrying situation that disinformation, misleading information, is now spreading rapidly on social media. Some of it is also picked up by established media. My concern, first of all, is that this contributes to undermining the management of a crisis by democratic institutions. Our open, democratic societies are also in many ways more vulnerable to that kind of disinformation. We see that it is actively and objectively used as a foreign policy tool, but we also see that it is used to spread the untruths about health issues, which can cost lives. This is something we work a lot on, the EU and NATO are working a lot on it, and I am very happy that there is now better cooperation in these areas between many countries, because this is something we are unfortunately going to see more of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e847	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e852	In the past, Norway was asked why it was going to be for the international community. This is due to the fact that in Norwegian independence and freedom of action in foreign policy, international cooperation has served us very well. We have gained more freedom of action and independence because of international cooperation. My question is related to human rights. It was the Minister of Foreign Affairs in connection with Hungary. This is a bigger question. It is now apparent that global actors are less committed to promoting human rights on the international agenda. Cooperation with the EU then becomes more important for Norway than before. What initiatives will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take to strengthen cooperation with the EU in order to enhance human rights in the countries with which we cooperate?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e859	We were supposed to have an interpellation also a little later today about the human rights situation in the world today, and I was also going to say a lot about it. Because it is absolutely right that we see a trend that is going in the negative direction in many countries, and we also see that developments are getting closer. This means that European countries have a good deal of challenges – we have been dealing with them here. But we also see that in many cases we can work well with European countries to promote these kinds of issues. We work closely together in the Nordic region with this. That is what we see as having an effect both in Europe and in other countries. We also take an active part in several of the EU's debates about this, where we have access. The fact that we work a lot with human rights issues in a European context is important to us, because it is quite right, as Huitfeldt's representative says, that in that area, like many other fields, we feel that we are closer together when we promote the same points of view as for example. other European countries. The case of Hungary and Poland is very clear examples of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e866	For the first time, I have experienced that a minister boasts of receiving as many refugees as possible to Norway. It is possible that it has previously come from a socialist government, but it is at least the first time from a Right-State Council. My question is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs is in fact proud to accept 3,000 quota refugees, a total of 6,000 refugees plus asylum seekers to Norway, and whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his own neighbourhood among the associations she has, these refugees are being bypassed daily and are experiencing the challenges of most of the people. Or is it that it's really just in party speeches here in the main hall and elsewhere that you want to be inclusive – and maybe also get some international positions out there, as the nordics say with joy all over the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e871	Here it was as usual a lot different, but let me start where the representative Tybring-Gjedde started. I mentioned in my presentation a fact, namely that Norway accepts about. 3 000 quota refugees per year. There is a policy also the Progress Party has been in government, and I have not experienced that it has been a problem for the Progress Party before now. But there are also shared opinions in the Progress Party on this, I have gradually understood. Then I believe it is important that a country like Norway helps when we can – and we can. At the same time, however, we set clear limits on the number, and we are engaged in an active return policy, so that there are those who need protection who get to Norway. Then I can only register that the representative Tybring-Gjedde and I live in completely different parts of the city. I live in Old Oslo, which is one of the districts that have the most minority population. I have no problem living in that part of the city – I have lived there for over 20 years, and I am very comfortable with the community I have. The representative Tybring-Gjedde lives west of the city and probably doesn't have the same number of minority backgrounds around him.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e880	I can assure the Minister for Foreign Affairs that there are many in the Progress Party who are struggling to live in neighborhoods where it is actually not possible to get a normal education in high school or high school, who are struggling with very many languages in the classroom, who are struggling to have a community and create a common good environment. I assume that the foreign minister has been sitting in a café, probably doing well for the foreign minister, but that is not the issue. The Minister for Foreign Affairs then said that she said 3,000 in the statement. No, in the statement she did not say that, in the statement she said that we accept ‘most quota refugees per capita’ in Europe. I guess that's boasting of what the government is doing. With regard to the efforts of the Progress Party in the government, it was one of the points we had to raise, which is causing great unrest in the Advance Party, and which will not repeat itself – I can assure you – if the Advance Party is to hold together. So just to tell the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it's not something the Progress Party is proud of; we're sorry that we're accepting so many quota refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e889	After all, the Progress Party has been in government for six years and has accepted the same number of quota refugees, but it is a debate I should like to leave behind. It'll have to take the Progress Party internally. The fact that Norway accepts most quota refugees per capita is a fact. That's what I think it's good to disclose in the statement. And then it's not like I'm experiencing my part of the city first and foremost by sitting in a café. It's the way I walk around in my neighborhood, I talk to my neighbors, I have contact with people living in the neighborhood, and there's also a lot of people with minority backgrounds at the school that's right across the street where I live. And it's actually going really well, but it could be because I have a slightly different attitude to people who come from somewhere else, than the representative Tybring-Gjedde now shows up. The focus of the representative Tybring-Gjedde has is...
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e896	I'll have asked myself that, actually.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e905	I suggest perhaps that the representative stay standing until I have finished answering. The problem focus the representative has, it seems to me, was made clear in what he said on his second question. It's a focus I don't have. I do not deny that there are challenges, but at the same time, I believe it is important that Norway contributes to helping where possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e912	The President will ask the representative to stand until the Council of State has completed its reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e918	Health is initially a national responsibility in the EU, but pandemics are known to have no borders, and the EU has tried to coordinate themselves. They haven't dealt with the coronary apathy in a particularly good way. Norway has far better results, even though there is absolutely also a lack in our preparedness. Such crises will arise again – or similar crises: military crises, food shortages, animal disease or human disease in different variants. Sees the importance of national preparedness and will work to ensure that the government, rather than blindly relying on international trade, will support national preparedness stocks for e.g. food, medicine and infectious diseases equipment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e927	Sometimes it is a little difficult to understand the criticism from the Central Party, because on the one hand it is based on the fact that the EU has not done enough, but on the other hand it is from a party that wants the EU to do less. So it can be a little difficult to get a grip on where the criticism is really going to hit. I believe that the European Union has had a good response when someone started. It took some time, and I also said something about that in my presentation. And that's mainly, as the representative says, because health policy is national. However, the EU has also contributed by coordinating a lot of policies, such as: have been in a situation where joint purchases of infectious disease protection equipment and medicines are being made. We got a common coordinated policy on this with export bans, so that a country like Norway, and others, did not have to deal with policies from 27 different countries in this area, which were developing. Then the EU seized. Not least, we have seen that solidarity in terms of economic packages has now also been confirmed. I think that is important aspects of what the EU has done – and then there are always things that can be done better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e934	In this case, I think there are a lot of things that can be done better. The centre party does not want the EU to do more, but we see that they have taken power in more and more areas where they were initially not meant to have it. It is not at least the case with the EEA Agreement, where one sees that areas which were actually to be left outside the EEA Agreement are actually being cut in reverse. The government has the habit, as I said in my post, of taking good care of when talking about the importance of the EU and the EEA, cf. what I said in my post about Norwegian exports to the EU in 2018. So maybe I'll follow up with a question to the Foreign Minister as to whether she's agreed in my description, and if one should perhaps be a little more sober when talking about the meaning of the EEA Agreement for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e939	I believe that I am putting forward a sobering way of looking at the meaning of the EEA Agreement for Norway. Today, before Britain goes out, we have access to a domestic market of 500 million people, and that is on equal terms with EU countries. It has enormous significance for the Norwegian economy today, and it is going to have it in the future too, especially when all countries are going to try to recover financially from the crisis we are facing. We carried out goods to the EU in 2019 at a value of 306 billion. kr, or 65 pst. of total mainland exports, with oil and gas 78,7 pst. It's not like we're not counting on oil and gas in other contexts where we export, like. to the United Kingdom, where gas exports represent a significant proportion. This is income for Norway. This export means a lot to the Norwegian economy, and the fact that we have the opportunities we have and the access to the internal market is, in my view, crucial for the development of the Norwegian economy. It's been the last 25 years, and it's also going to be -- at least -- the next 25 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e946	I think perhaps the Foreign Minister went a little past the question of the euro zone in his statement. We are faced with what may be a very serious situation for economic and monetary union, where the build-up of excessive debt in the southern European countries, while they are lacking the monetary policy instruments needed to get out of the crisis, and there is a lack of solidarity in the European Union about other euro countries that have earned more on the single currency over time, are willing to set up around some form of common guarantee mechanism for debt absorption. If one looks back a few years, the foreign minister's party was keenly attached to Norway's participation in economic and monetary union and the introduction of the euro as a currency. Then what I'm asking is, Is the Foreign Minister happy or sorry that the Right did not get through to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e953	Firstly, I believe that the premise in the question of Lightbakken, namely that it is, for example. there is no European solidarity, or it is now going to be in a situation where European countries will not take care of one another is wrong. I believe that the latest discussions and decisions that have been on, among other things. crisis packages are important. Then it is quite right, as the representative Lightbakken says, that there are very many countries in Europe – worldwide, I would say – that are going to face significant debt challenges, but of course also with reduced and negative growth and will face challenges again. Then just trading is one of the most important things that can help get the economy back on track. So the discussion is not whether or not we are going to be in the euro, especially when it comes to it. I just note that close European cooperation, which has also become closer among some countries because of the euro, is also serving Norway, because we have the access we have to a Europe that we are concerned about to have economic growth. That's good for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e962	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e967	The representative Tybring-Gjedde asked why Norway should always give the most to international organisations. Few countries have served as much economic, political and security policy in international organisations and cooperation as Norway. I can use the edge of the sea as a string. The Covid-l9 pandemic has triggered an important debate on aspects of globalisation and the interdependence of global value chains. Do we have to rely more on ourselves and less on each other in crises like this? Experience from previous crises is not that countries are retreating, on the contrary. Last week we celebrated that it was 75 years since the liberation in 1945. Four years later, we were part of the foundation of NATO. We applied for the most obligating cooperation with other countries we can imagine. We still sought communities rather than just relying on our own forces. In 1960, we went back with other countries and formed EFTA — if not on the basis of a crisis — then to strengthen the Norwegian economy and the export potential of Norwegian business. I'll come back to EFTA. In 2008 when the financial crisis hit an entire world, we saw the same thing. EU countries expanded and deepened cooperation to strengthen control and governance of the financial industry – a common defence against new financial crises and economic setbacks. Experience has thus shown that crises across countries trigger stronger cooperation and, often, new or strengthened international organisations, legislation and institutions. Because the problems that are created, or the threats we face, are common, they can only be met through cooperation and joint efforts. It is, as the representative Lysbakken pointed out, a blind lead to putting the nation state against international cooperation. International institutions and legislation do not weaken the country of origin. They are there to strengthen the ability of the nation-state to solve problems and challenges. Our ability to solve the climate crisis and our ability to develop a vaccine against covid-19 is better than if everyone had done as the American President, who stopped the allocations to the WHO, and if we were just to think about ourselves. In the light of this debate, we have had a discussion on the coatpins – the flag or the UN’s sustainability goal. I should have had an EFTA pin today because EFTA is 60 years old. That anniversary could deserve a little pomp and splendour. EFTA has been the platform for Norway’s trade agreements with the rest of the world, for the EEA Agreement and for 29 other trade agreements with 40 countries – agreements that provide predictability for the export industry and rules to ensure workers’ rights and environmental considerations. I believe that EFTA should also be a tool for strengthening our cooperation with the EU. We need to make sure that the EFTA countries are within the European cooperation circle when, in the light of the experience with the covid-19 pandemic, EU countries will strengthen their preparedness cooperation in the health sector. It is therefore both right and important that we join the EU's joint procurement initiative in dealing with serious cross-border threats to health and that we participate in the European Medicines Agency. But we saw when the supplies were stopped on Svinesund because of the EU export ban, that we can be quickly considered outside. That is why we should strengthen cooperation and, together with the other EFTA countries, it will be clearer and more visible. Now we all want to face economic recovery. Should the EFTA countries together assess whether and how we can make this job easier and faster if we cooperate and coordinate the actions with the EU Member States? And – EFTA must have a clear voice in the debate on trade, value chains and protectionism internationally. It is time to strengthen EFTA cooperation. The 60th anniversary should be used for a vitalisation — not an early retirement. Finally, a few words about the Brexit negotiations with the United Kingdom that started last week: it is good, but the signals from the negotiations between the United Kingdom and the EU are not encouraging, neither in terms of common legislation, fish, which will be important for us, nor the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. I think it is wise to bring up again the preparations for a situation where we pass the New Year without an agreement to replace the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e999	I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a concrete and offensive statement and also for the initiative that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken together with his Nordic colleagues towards Ukraine, and in particular the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. I would like to remind you that all these EU countries are members of the 47 countries, which have far more countries that have the task of looking in particular at the principles of legal security, human rights and democratic development. It is high time and absolutely necessary and affordable that this initiative was taken. I would like to draw attention to the EEA Agreement. We are constantly looking at attacks on the EEA Agreement from parts of the trade union movement, from the Centre Party and from others that are today calling for protectionist action. The last thing we've been able to see in the media is that the Center Party will also cancel trade agreements – think about it! From many of these cancers, it is claimed that the coronary apathy has illustrated the need for us to isolate ourselves more from the outside world. Then I dare remind you that maybe you should look at the definition of the word ‘pandemic’ and that we should be ourselves enough, to say it with Peer Gynt. We should not give in to this pressure. The national State is and shall remain the fundamental foreign policy unit. A pandemic and its handling is not an exact science. A pandemic is by definition global. It is alarming that the Centre Party, in a known style, expresses Norway alone, Norway for us, Norway without the EEA and with the greatest possible distance from the EU, while criticising the EU for their lateness and not overall operation – that is, a central party that is calling for the EU. See that, whoever can. In order to interpret it in the best possible sense, I can agree that there are certain challenges that the national states do not have as their strength, among other things. the management of global pandemics. Viruses do not know any limits, and therefore measures must also be taken to combat viruses that cross precisely these. The management of a pandemic is not an exact science, and so is the economy, which is not confined to individual countries either. We trade and buy and cooperate with other countries, and the corresponding ones with us. In the reconstruction of economies, all of which are affected by the infection measures, the conditions for Norwegian business will be very central, also for Norwegian jobs – the short-distance, the long-distance – our jobs that provide tax revenue and ensure that we have a well-being. It is obvious to me that Norwegian exports will be our most important market. It will be absolutely crucial, and we will be totally dependent on the EEA Agreement when we are going to secure economic growth again. If we are to rely on the EEA Agreement, we must ensure the dissemination of its importance. In this context, it is worrying to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs explain how disinformation and false news related to the pandemic are now flourishing on the Internet. The Minister of Foreign Affairs could also tell that Norway’s own media surveillance has found that nearly half of all Norwegians have read false news about covid-19 and that the national safety authority has warned about the spread of just such news about the virus. A narrative left in these false news is the claim that the EU has failed to deal with the pandemic. This is often combined with the fact that Russia and China are the responsible actors. This we must help to fight back. Firstly, it is a factual error to pass such a judgment on the EU; secondly, it only serves to weaken European cooperation at a time when we are more dependent on this cooperation and European countries are united. Without close cooperation with our European partners, each of us is less likely to stand back. This cohesion is not determined solely by ministerial meetings and other cooperation at the top level. No, it is maintained through the confidence of all countries and peoples of all countries in their own authorities and in the cooperation they have with other countries. That is why it is our responsibility to strengthen this trust. I think everyone in this Chamber agrees that we should not knock political coins on the pandemic. For its own part, this also means standing up to the EEA Agreement and for European cooperation to come out of this crisis as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1016	I would also like to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for a thorough and good presentation. There was a great deal to agree with, and I will also acknowledge her for good and thorough answers to the challenges that came here in the Chamber from her own parliamentary basis a few minutes ago. As many have said in this debate, it is important to try to summarise what the EU's management of the crisis in question has been about, and it is right to give recognition to some things as well as to criticise other things. But it is important, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also said, that very many of those who believe that the European Union did not do well — implicitly, one should not have had the EU — actually ask for more EU. I want to say that where the EU was short, it was rather systematic where it had been integrated too little, or was too little good to throw around to find common solidarity responses rather than the opposite. I think there is an important lesson here in the depths of international cooperation in such crises. Let me also say a few words about the big discussion about the state – the market and the nation state. I think we all recognise – in these times we now live in – that when things become really problematic, we need a strong and effective state. There's also a lot of expressions here. But I'm concerned when you confuse having a strong and effective state with calling about the nation state understood as something other than other nation states, i.e. state-to-state. For the strongest and most efficient and most efficient countries in the world, the countries that are most capable of cooperating with other effective, strong and well-functioning states are precisely the countries that are most well-functioning. International cooperation makes an effective state possible in many ways. Those who are most ensnared often become less effective and often have to resort to much harder tools to bring the population together behind what they want. So that contradiction is important to grasp, and understand the difference here – that the state is needed, especially in crises, but that doesn't mean the state against other states, that means states that cooperate well. A field that becomes important to us in the future is the great climate change, the great transformation of energy and industrial policy that we are in the middle of. The debate that is taking place in parallel today in this Chamber and in the hiking hall and throughout Norway on revised national budgets, oil packages and green crisis measures must also be given a clear international dimension, for this is an area in which the EU is increasingly working more closely, increasingly and more effectively. We see that what's called Europe's green deal, an idea that was imported in many ways from the American centre-left side – where, for natural reasons, it has not yet been expressed, since it is not in power in the United States – has now been implemented across the political spectrum in Europe. Commission President von where Leyen and Social-Democrat Vice-President Timmermans are close together to implement this, and all the signals so far indicate that the EU Green Deal should only be strengthened, as well as the way out of the crisis. This is important to us, because the most important market for everything we create, produces and all the services and goods we export is just the EU. The market we're going to open up again will look different than it did when we all shut ourselves in, and then a lot of the economy was shut down. This means, among other things: that the EU is now going to be investing in a completely different way, what we call a circular economy. A very concrete and thorough plan for the EU's implementation of strong requirements for the circular economy has been put in place. It's unusually clear, it has very clear and strict objectives, and it also has very clear tools for how to get there. We now have a discussion about increasing hydrogen production. Then it is important to know that over the past six months — or the year — the EU has raised its focus on hydrogen as a substitute for natural gas. It is very important for a country like Norway, which has both great potential to produce so-called blue hydrogen from converted hydrogen gas via carbon capture and storage, and green hydrogen, which is from electricity. Finally, I would like to say that these issues are going to become increasingly important in global international policy in the future. It is quite clear that the closest allies we have to address these issues in the global arena arena, we find them in the EU countries and in the European Commission, the European Parliament and the European Council. This is high on the agenda there, and it is incredibly important that we are able to link up the debate we have these days on Norway's way out of the crisis with the big debate that is going on in our most important market, where our most related country is, namely in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1033	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1039	The representative of Tybring-Gjedde made a recognizable contribution with considerable scepticism to international cooperation and little understanding of the value of Norway of participating in such cooperation. After all, it was new that he also appeared as a climate negator and pointed to Nobel Prize winners Giever. If the same gier follows as badly on his older days as he did during his study, I think one should take a pinch of salt that comes from him: I wasn't interested in what I was studying. Instead, I won tournaments in bridge, billiards and poker. It was almost embarrassing how I spent my time. Well, if someone had suggested in the autumn of 2019 that the EU should draw up a common health plan, it would probably not have become a majority in favour of it. Interestingly, those who are now criticising the European Union are actually calling for more supranational governance. There is no doubt that the covid-19 virus originated in China. Nor is there any doubt that China was too late, and was too little open to the outside world about the virus situation in its own country. The Covid-19 virus attacks the human immune system, but the covid-19 virus also attacks the resilience of society. We see that Russia and China are exploiting this situation and want to hit people's trust in Western democracies to prepare the ground – especially China – for the spread of their own social system. The entire register of hybrid instruments is being used, and Russia is practicing its own textbook, written by General Gerasimov, where war is being waged at several arenas and levels at the same time, through political, economic and cultural instruments. We see that China uses the ‘mask diplomacy’, also in combination with hybrids. But also during this crisis, southern Europe has been hit hardest. The acidiest way to deal with this is through the EU’s ability to provide financial assistance, and here the EU delivers. We see that significant funds have been reallocated from the EU Natural Damage Fund and regional development funds, and significant funds have been added, to the large sum of 540 billion. euro. There's reason to pour cold water into the blood of those who believe that economic self-storage now has a reindeer. Norway has a small, open economy and has contributed to a high level of cohesion through it. Finally, I believe the words of Europeans and Chancellor Helmut Kohl will stand this time as well. He's said the dogs are barking, but the caravan is rolling.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1057	Many countries are now hit by the Korona crisis, but some countries in Europe have been hit by an economic crisis for a very long time, and one of them is Greece. For ten years they have been affected by an economic crisis, and because of their location they have also been responsible for a large number of asylum seekers who have entered Greece. What has been the response to this, also from Norway? Well, Norway has given quite a lot of money over the years, but more than half of the money has returned, and that is because Greece cannot and will not spend it. No later than Christmas Norway got back 600 million. EUR from EEA funds – not all from Greece, but many, even then. In the presentation, the Council of State says that one is dependent on broad economic cooperation to solve this. Yes, we are, because Norway is part of the Schengen and Dublin cooperation that imposes these obligations on Greece. Norway has also supported the EU-Turkey Agreement, which applies only to the islands of Greece, and therefore the refugees remain on the islands. Is it in Norway's interest that Greece breaks down? They can't do this. The locals are worn out, angry and worn out. They have been subjected to cutbacks for ten years, and now they feel that Europe is turning its back on them. And Norway has not yet been able to say yes to the German initiative to evacuate some of the most vulnerable. We are still waiting for the government’s response to this – because there are others who show up, who report and come on the road to help the local population unless other European countries do so, and that is the far right. They are already there and have hunted volunteers from the islands. This is serious. It is an important signal now that Norway is among those countries that say yes to extending a hand to Greece and to the local population to say that we want to help you, that we see you, and that we do not leave this arena to those who are there – and look as if they are interested – or that the pace and direction of this in Europe should be governed by Poland and Hungary. Norway must have an informed self-interest that Europe is moving in a solidarity direction and not in a direction in which we allow the most right-wing regimes to determine the pace and direction. There's been talk about human rights here today, and I'm happy about it. That's my basis of value. Norway must then stand on human rights – including asylum rights – and not be involved in the migration of many countries today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1072	Norway is facing the most serious and profound economic crisis in generations. We haven't seen higher unemployment rates in Norway since the 1930s. In the rapidly emerging crisis, it has been essential to provide income protection for people, to ensure that businesses survive and to provide powerful measures. It has been absolutely crucial, and it has been crucial to do it quickly. In that work, and I myself have been very close to it in the Financial Committee, we have a view of how we come across and bow against the EEA Agreement on all kinds of bows and edges. One of the first things we had to deal with was the situation of travel life, which was hit instantly and hard by the crisis. When a unanimous increase said that we would reduce taxes and reduce VAT with retroactive effect for travel life in order to give travel life an important handshake in a dramatic situation, the government said: wait a minute, we have to check this with the EU – we have to check it with the EEA Agreement guardians in Brussels. And then one comes back and says, "No, sorry, ESA says that this is trouble with the EEA agreement." So says Stortinget one more time: We still believe that this is important in order to safeguard travel life in Norway, secure jobs and ensure activity throughout Norway. They once again addressed themselves to Brussels. The answer from ESA was once again no. The Norwegian pottery must bend the neck of the EEA Agreement. At the same time, one sees that shipyards along the entire Norwegian coast are in crisis. There are too few assignments, the yard is in danger of going bankrupt, workplaces are in danger of being lost. The size says: We have to make it more favourable to invest in new ships, we have to make the depreciation arrangements better, we have to create a new depreciation scheme for ships – with which the government would come back in the revised national budget. Today, the revised national budget was presented. What can we read there? No, we can't do that because the EEA Agreement puts an end to it. This can be done in areas such as social-critical infrastructure, aviation, loan scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises or a compensation scheme for companies at risk. Every time, one has to check with those sitting in Brussels. It has become the case that the Stortinget has a more preparatory treatment, and we shall be very grateful to spend a few days on it, and then the final reading in Brussels will come to an end. We have to regain national sovereignty, so that in times of crisis, but also in ordinary situations, one can be master of his own house.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1085	To the last post: it was a school example of protectionist thinking that makes everyone poorer. We have a long experience of this, because the prosperity we have achieved has been achieved by the societies that have opened up their economy to a sensible and rational trading system, and where it is the quality of products and the rational production that have led to market shares and not being excluded from important markets. So if you imagine that you can use up all the resources in Norway, you can, of course, make a comment that the representative of Gielsvik just made himself the spokesman for. What made me take the floor was the post of the representative Lysbakken. He's often knowledgeable and interesting, but here I have to say I got confused. What I was confused about was the relationship SV has to the world around it – that is, outside of Norway. They talk a lot about international solidarity, and they are absolutely happy donors, largely without conditions, when it comes to correcting distortions in remote areas of the world. But entering into more coercive agreements is, of course, very difficult. We've also heard it before in this room – I think it was on the previous occasion, where there was a battle against all the Bretton Woods institutions that were established in the first post-war period. The World Bank was bad guys, humanitarian funds were bad guys -- everything that tastes of international regulation, which just makes it possible to sell goods to each other in a safe way. Today we also heard that it was a huge advantage to have a currency of our own. If people don't remember it, then there was a time in Europe where there was competition to weaken each other's economy through currency manipulation, frequent devaluations and to export unemployed to each other. This has been cancelled. I see that new generations take the wealth that we have, for granted, and don't think about why we've gotten there. So I have to draw attention to Karin Andersen's articles. There were too few commitments to international agreements, namely Schengen and Dublin. After all, she should have been involved in that speech in the European Parliament, how many of her more and more euro-positive colleagues are now sitting. SV is completely out of step, both with international socialist movement and with the realities of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1096	I think it was a very interesting debate to follow – also the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It just got into another interesting debate that we've been going for a few days here in Norway, which is going on just international cooperation or whether to bet on the nation state. There are a lot of people who are trying to say that this debate is very uninteresting and grounded, but there are also a lot of the same representatives who are pulling it up again and again just because it's an interesting debate to take. The debate is about what signals are given, and what you are most concerned about. In fact, I believe that it is less about the counter-representations between the nation state and international cooperation. I don't think there are any parties on Stortinget that are constantly opposed to international cooperation – nor is the Progress Party. For example, the Progress Party is: very adherent to NATO and the defence cooperation there. But there are limits to how far any cooperation will go and how far it will be. We have received many examples of this in Norwegian policy. Through the coronary crisis and other things, we repeatedly meet ourselves in the doorway. We have also had challenges around the Nav scandal, which are, in fact, contradictions between national interests and EU law, which many people can certainly agree on, have gone too far, become too intrusive, and that it has become too difficult to follow up the commitments that are gradually being adhered to. So that gives us a little bit of dissatisfaction. I registered that the Minister of Foreign Affairs criticized Hungary and Poland for not complying with the EU courts and decisions taken there. I think that dissatisfaction is going to increase because this has become too invasive. There has been a collision course between national interests and international cooperation, which of course has all the world's good intentions. It's always been. It's very small you can sit down and point to and say that that and that goal we're against. But when you get such a big and heavy bureaucracy as we have clearly got in many areas, it becomes a problem. I also believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Right and several parties should take that criticism more into account – that there is growing dissatisfaction that we, as politicians, as a national assembly, are constantly meeting ourselves in the doorway because we have entered into so intrusive cooperation that we are unable to carry out the policies we really want, in all respects.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1109	To meet the greatest challenges of both the present and the future, we need more cooperation in the world, and we need more cooperation in Europe. This applies to us as an EEA member as fully as to Sweden, Greece or Spain as members of the EU. The situation with the coronary apathy shows – quite clearly – that there are many countries that have not been well enough prepared and that there is a need for stronger European cooperation. When we meet future pandemics, we need stronger European cooperation – both in order to have value chains that we can cooperate on, so that we do not depend equally on what is happening in other parts of the world, and on how we meet what has to happen in practice. - More cooperation, not less. The second major problem facing the world is the climate and environmental crisis we are in the middle of. 2020 was to be the super-year for climate action. It is absolutely essential that we now work with Europe to strengthen and build on the will we need in the rest of the world to strengthen climate goals, but we must also actively work towards the EU, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs had in mind, in order for them to strengthen their goal of 50 p.m. Or 55 pst, of which we'll also be a part. The cooperation we have now increases by entering into a common goal of at least 50 pst last year. emissions cut by 2030. We must build up the European Green New Deal and be an active participant in it. I am a little surprised at how you view the EEA Agreement as a problem for Norway. Like so many here, I have also been on municipal boards in the past, and there we are discussing how to meet air pollution requirements, water directives, how to manage waste management – all based on what is common European rules. All are also being driven forward to provide better solutions in Norway. We need to be part of international cooperation to stand up for democracy. In 2006, I had the privilege of standing on the October site in Minsk and addressing 12,000 demonstrators and talking about freedom, in what we thought was Europe's last dictatorship. It turned out not to be, and today we are under pressure as democracies. Standing up to those who undermine our systems – China, Russia – working together in Europe and in our neighbourhoods as we have a withdrawing US – is absolutely crucial in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1126	I take the floor to respond to the efforts of the representative, Mr. Engen-Helgheim, to mention his own media staff about a torment as an interesting debate. To illustrate, I would quote from the Foreign Minister's statement. There she says, ‘It is therefore worrying that the extensive efforts made in the framework of European cooperation are subject to misinformation — both deliberately and unconsciously. It helps undermine people’s trust in both European institutions and national governments.’ An extensive effort is also being made here to undermine people's confidence in the government in this matter. It is done by pretending that the Norwegian government is not working for us here in Norway because some of them are going with the UN's sustainability targets – because the Red Party and the Advance Party believe to know that there are many who do not know what it means. The whole point of that button is to spread information and awareness about the goals. The Corona epidemic has become a stable where everyone can grapple with their jaws, that's also a good example of this debate. But it has also become the new horse-shoe, where the Red and Advance Party meet at the end, at the top or at the bottom – depending on how to turn that horse-shoe. The representative of Engen-Helgheim mentioned Poland and Hungary in his statement. He said that Poland and Hungary stand up to what he thinks is far too intrusive cooperation. What happens is that Poland's leadership and Hungary's leadership react to the international community wanting to respect human rights. Of course, it is very annoying for national authorities to want to break these human rights, but it is not a population that stands up for international cooperation – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1140	I fully support the previous speech, because there are many who are now trying to create a false contrast between strong nation states and international cooperation. However, successful international cooperation requires strong national states that take national responsibility for addressing their own challenges and at the same time contribute to addressing boundless global challenges. Participation in NATO does not weaken our defence ability even if it obliges us to make other priorities and investments than if we stood alone. NATO requires national defence capabilities that are strengthened by the fact that we can do precisely different priorities than if we had to make sure to get full capacity in all areas ourselves. It is always interesting to see the reactions of the EU's opponents when the EU does not prove to be what they are trying to represent as, namely, a supranational intervention that overrides the national state and undermines national sovereignty. As a democratic institution, the EU cannot or must act as if it were a federation with wide powers over individual countries. On the contrary, the EU depends on well-functioning national states that take responsibility for national issues such as preparedness and health. However, both the response time and the response to the corona epidemic reveal weaknesses in the ability of both the nation-state to deal with crises at local and international institutions when crises occur. The EU has received legitimate criticisms to respond too little and too late when the epidemic hit Europe, but when it was given speed of management, they effectively provided for trade corridors through closed borders, hindered the hamsing of equipment and medicinal products in some EU countries, and coordinated the efforts where it was most needed. International cooperation complements and reinforces what we have, and together we become stronger than we had each other. We choose international trade and commitment cooperation because it serves Norwegian interests and strengthens the nation state. Last week we celebrated May 8th, the day of release in Norway and Europe. Some of us also celebrated Europe on 9 May, which this year marked the 70th anniversary of the Schuman Declaration, the foundation of the Coal and Steel Union, which was the precursor to the EU. Based on the ruin of two devastating world wars, this was in recognition of the fact that regulated trade and interaction prevent conflicts. The European Community has provided the basis for deep peace in Norway and Europe since then. When we are about to lift the flag again to mark our freedom, our democracy and our right to self-determination on 17 May, it must be recognised that our freedom, our democracy and our right to self-determination are closely linked to the same in Europe and in the rest of the world. Global trade, UN sustainability targets and international cooperation strengthen the state of Norway. We're stronger together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1153	SV is for international cooperation and also for commitments. We have a hard time keeping Norway's responsibilities with regard to human rights, which I have had. We are in favour of cooperation on climate issues. We are in favour of trade agreements with other countries. What we're critical of is agreements that are subscriptions to right-wing policies, that force us to pursue right-wing policies, because we don't think that's a solution to either this crisis or other crises. When I mentioned in my article e.g. The Dublin agreement, of which Norway is part, was because it is important when we look at the crisis that has arisen in Greece now. Norway is part of the Dublin agreement, and SV has made proposals in Stortinget many times that we have to renegotiate that agreement because it is so biased. It gives all responsibility for refugees to the country where the refugees enter. What happened in 2015? Well, then Italy and Greece stopped stamping passports for asylum seekers because they knew they were going to sit with responsibility. Then the borders were closed, and now Greece has a huge responsibility for an agreement that Norway is part of. How do we respond to that? That's my question to the majority. Greece is asking us on their knees to help at least relieve some of the children, who have not been able to attend school for several years, where there is no healthcare again. Despite the fact that the Norwegian authorities have wasted a lot of money after this and even boasts of having helped finance some of the worst camps that are there, some of the worst things I have seen, there is not a system in which it helps to throw money after. We have to assist in another way. Germany has taken such an initiative. There are many European countries, ten countries, who have said they will be there. Norway hesitates. Why on earth do we do that in a situation where Greece has been financially on its knees for ten years and now sits with this serious task they can't do, and so there are right-wing extreme forces that are there and offer help? I was hoping we might have learned a little bit from what happened in Gaza. When others turn their backs, you turn to quite extreme forces that help you with food, which helps you to see them. This is my challenge to the government today. Would it not have been wise to reach out a hand, so that Greece does not become a greenhouse for right-wing extreme forces now – that we helped out a little, because we are part of the Schengen and Dublin Agreement? We can discuss it, but it's a fact. It is a fact that the Norwegian Government has said that they support the EU-Turkey Agreement, which also places this great responsibility on Greece. We should then contribute what they ask of us, not with more money that they cannot use wisely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1168	If I claim that the representative Helgheim has an understanding of the development in Hungary, I hope that I am wrong. If not, it is profoundly serious. Orbán has accumulated more and more power on his hands for over ten years. Hungary is now on the verge of becoming the first EU dictatorship. The nation building that Orbán is running on follows a classic line: 1. Find an outside enemy, 2. define the state after that, 3. appear to be the country's top protector. We have examples of this in Europe's history where it will go. There is no need to show an understanding of such social developments in a European country. What makes this extra serious is that Orbán has also been able to build this regime through EU funds. Norway – and I know that Norway does – needs to look into whether or not to put the EEA funds for Hungary at risk now. This is a totally unacceptable development, which in the worst case can spread, and then we have a very dramatic development in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1176	I would like to address the Foreign Minister directly, simply because political disagreements are to be discussed in this Chamber, not persons, and not attitudes. It's very painful, and it meant that I had to get out of the hall here for 30 minutes because I was so upset to get such an accusation from a minister at the Stockholm pulpit. It's quite unreasonable. I would rather not have the Minister of Foreign Affairs come up and respond to this. I'd rather not. I just want to quote what I said, and say how I feel. If the Foreign Minister does not want to accept that I feel that way, and feels that she has to defend herself, I think it is very, very weak by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In fact, there are many neighborhoods struggling with integration, and there are many neighborhoods where the community is confused. There are places where they have challenges in school in terms of language, culture and religion, and where they have a lot of crime in the evenings and networks. That's the truth, and it's related to a very large immigrant population and a large number of immigrants coming to this country. It's not that each immigrant has something wrong with it, or – as the foreign minister believes – I have a different relationship with immigrants than what she herself has, which rises above everyone else. I hope the Foreign Minister can take note of it, without any attempt to defend himself, but I see that she sits and writes, so that's what she wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1187	I have to say that it is strange that a representative goes up to the pulpit and says that there should be a debate in this Chamber. The first thing that happened was that the representative went in the middle of my reply. The second was that the representative asked me not to take the floor to answer what he said. And the third was that when I was going to give it the answer, he left the hall again. I guess that's not exactly compatible with debate. It was not I who raised the question of refugees on the track, it was the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde who did, by reproducing from my statement something that was not there, it was a factual statement that Norway is the country in Europe that receives the most quota refugees per capita. That there is something the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde disagrees with, I have no problem with. But in the lines he continued to accuse me and others of either raising us above others or not knowing what it was like to live in a neighborhood with a minority. I live in a neighborhood with many minorities. I live right across the street for a school with many minority children. It's fine. I said at the same time, without the representative Tybring-Gjedde getting it along, because then he was so furious that he had already left the pulpit, that it is not without challenges. I also said nothing but that I believe that Christian Tybring-Gjedde obviously has a different approach to people with a different background – because he only had a problem focus in the line he traveled. Then I can't help but notice that the representative Tybring-I didn't want to hear my first answer, didn't want me to answer what he accused me of, nor did I want to be present in the room when that answer came. In fact, I believe that this House is in favour of a mature, good and mature political debate. Then you can’t storm down from the pulpit when you get an answer you don’t like. Then you cannot ask a government council not to respond to a personal attack. I assume that those positions are not shared by others in the Chamber other than one representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1198	The representative, Michael Tetzschner, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1203	I felt the need to respond to the violent moral indignation of the representative Karin Andersen because, according to the Schengen and Dublin acquis, we are allegedly not doing enough, in addition to the 600 million. Norwegian taxpayers have financed for reception camps in Greece. The point is that international refugee law does not have a direct link with Schengen cooperation, which is still a cooperation between sovereign states and where the international refugee law regulates. Basically, it means that those who escape war acts and persecution are allowed to stay in the first safe country, and they do not have an immediate right to move on. So it must be due to completely different mechanisms. In the absence of the EU developing it, it will be the UN system and the quota refugee system, which you can criticise, but which will take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1208	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1225	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1232	The issue we are now dealing with is a proposal for a representative on the labelling of goods coming from areas occupied by Israel. The debate on how to deal with Israeli-produced goods, and in particular goods from occupied areas, is not new, and the opinions have been partly strong. It is quick to end up in old, rehearsed tracks when a matter like this is being discussed. I hope we avoid it in the hall here today. This is not a debate for or against the boycott of Israel; it is a debate on whether consumers should be allowed to make informed choices, not only about health, the economy, the environment and social conditions, but also about ethical considerations and international legal obligations. What is new with this proposal, compared with proposals we have discussed before, is that it is based on a judgment of the EU Court of Justice of 2019. The judgment interprets the food information system on the compulsory labelling of foodstuffs and states that products from a territory occupied by Israel must be labelled with both territorial origin and that the product originates from an Israeli settlement. The decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union is in line with the EU Commission’s 2015 interpretative opinion relating to existing legislation on the labelling of origin and the practice of the legislation on goods from Israeli settlements in areas outside the 1967 borders. The Committee is aware that the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union is not formally binding on Norway, but the Minister of Foreign Affairs writes to the Committee in a letter dated 17 February 2019 that such practices are nevertheless given great importance. In its comments on the matter, the Committee unanimously referred to the Foreign Minister’s opinion: ‘The purpose-based interpretation of the EEA Agreement, as well as the obligation of loyalty, normally requires uniform interpretation and application of the rules.’ This is a matter that has been under discussion in Stortinget for a long time, and as the case-rapporteur, I think it is appropriate to point out that it took a very long time for us to get the government's assessment of this proposal. It could have been understandable that the government took the time to make a proper assessment of the relevance of this judgment to Norwegian law, so that the Stortinget could adopt this proposal with the support of the government parties. Frankly, I thought that was the cause of the long treatment period. Instead, after several months, we received a page and a half long letter informing us that the question is available for government treatment. EFTA has a free trade agreement with Israel since 1992 and it follows from Article 32 of the Agreement that it applies to the territories of the Contracting Parties. With regard to what is considered the Israeli territory, it is based on the internationally recognised borders of Israel. That means the territory under Israeli control before 4 June 1967. Thus, the labelling of goods from the occupied territory does not imply any kind of boycott or breach of the 1992 free trade agreement. It is quite surprising that the government parties choose to use the term ‘exported from Israel originating from the West Bank’ without at all mentioning that the West Bank is not part of Israel but Palestinian territories occupied by Israel in violation of international law and a number of UN Security Council resolutions. That approach is particularly strange when we read the Granavolden platform and the government's expressed ambition of a balanced approach to the Middle East conflict. In the opinion of the Labour Party, if Norway is left out with the rest of Europe in terms of the labelling of goods from occupied areas, it would appear very unbalanced. In 2014, Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende was interviewed by the NRK Dagsrevyen on a labelling scheme for goods from areas occupied by Israel. He said: ‘A few weeks ago, I took the initiative of an investigation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to look at a possible introduction. It is complex, but at the same time important to send signals that we do not accept the occupation on the West Bank. And I also have to add that the free trade agreement that was mentioned does not apply to occupied areas." He further stated: ‘I can promise that this investigation will not take eight years.’ Now it's been six years. It's not eight, but six years is also long. The European Court of Justice has clarified its rules, and the case is over-crowded. I'll bring this up with the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1267	The representative Marianne Marthinsen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1272	The case rapporteur began by saying that this was a matter that followed normal leads. I can say to some extent that I agree, but it also contains a few suspicious innovations. One of them is that the Workers Party has made SV its spiritual leader in Middle East questions. It's made them take a position they haven't had before. Now I agree that it may be opportunistic in the opposition to be a little bit sharper, stricter and more principleal than you are when you own the government power. Here, however, there are very important principles that Norway has adhered to so far — and that is that one has not wanted to go into a simple activistic case against, or action directed against, one of the parties. It may be known that Norway wants to play a role in the Middle East. Going into a climate where you take an action and turn it into Norway’s official policy, or want to do so, will weaken Norway’s credibility as a balanced party with the capacity to see things from both sides. If you go into the matter itself, it's not as simple as it's presented as it is. Firstly, there is no judgment from the European Court of Justice. An out-of-court opinion is available at the request of those interested in the case in France who questioned whether the French trade mark authorities could put in place such a system, as described. The Court of Justice has expressed a favourable opinion in this respect, but from the point of view of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and from the point of view of the full inclusion of Norwegian law or Norwegian policy under EEA law, it is far too early to say. What is important is that these questions should be briefed on the possible negotiations that are taking place. I'm not hiding that domestic political developments in Israel, and you might also say in the United States, have brought the parties further apart. But there is still no reason for us to give up on a point of view that the path of negotiation that opens the way for lasting peace and state formation is the final, great and good answer to these questions. Then we get a record that the Workers' Party wants to make a difference under the direction of SV, which usually does not have a balanced relationship with the Middle East – it is always the one party that is responsible for most things. It is the party that happens to have choices – some say they have a little too many choices – while the other side, with which they are to negotiate, does not appear exemplary if you think about the participation of citizens, and they are also divided. That's also part of the picture. When it is then said so nuanceless that we are facing occupied territory, and you level this with the occupation of the Crimea Peninsula, it is, in my opinion, quite lame. After all, the whole solution in the Middle East and the state formation of Israel was built on a basis of international law, made by the UN in the early post-war years, when Israel had to defend itself against two attacks, first in 1948 and later in 1967. It is clear that their view of border issues has been influenced by what is also important for any sovereign state, and that is the security issues. On the other hand, an independent Palestinian State has not been established, and there is also some of the accident, for it should have been done at the same time — with recognised borders under international control — from day one. Of course, those possibilities are wasted. It doesn't have to be a lasting peace solution. This must also be the Norwegian position for further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1291	On the left, and also on the right – not the last speaker – the fight against Israel is the driving force in all Middle East policies. It worries me. It worries me that the left side overlooks how the Palestinians are radicalized, indoctrinated and using religious fanaticism and fundamentalism. It worries me that the socialists choose to justify all the hatred conveyed by Palestinian leaders and religious leaders, and all the antisemitism conveyed in Palestinian textbooks. Let me add: does the left-hand side really believe that the success of Palestine as a society depends on the country territory getting a little bigger? Is that what matters? Is this the historical experience that Israel has had to live with? Then to the representative proposal of the Socialist Left Party. The Progress Party supports the intention to enable consumers to make informed choices about the goods or service they consider to buy. The SV proposal is not such a proposal. The proposal is part of the SV and the Workers' Party's outrageous fight against Israel, and it goes into the series of unbearable attempts to make Israel the largest bandit of the Earth. And the SV and the Workers' Party are not alone. LO has also found surprisingly that the fight, not for anything, but for some, namely by boycotting Israel, is something that should involve Norwegian workers. It's called international solidarity. But when did international solidarity become synonymous with leading workers into unemployment? The legislative assembly of Israel has expressed the following ambitions: peace, coexistence, closer cooperation between Israel and Palestinians, more jobs and less poverty, a modern society that is economically interconnected and where everyone has rights. Not least Israel wants to create an atmosphere of trust. The SV's proposal will achieve the opposite. Trade has always been a door opener for cooperation. Norway has injected billions of dollars into Palestinian society, but we have never managed to create a single profitable private job. Then the Palestinians must resort to Israel, and they do so in thousands. Israeli enterprises on the West Bank make their daily lives tens of thousands of Palestinians better. Israeli investment ensures the Palestinians work – work that Palestinian authorities do not have the ability to give them. If the Storting were to follow the SV and the Workers' Party's line on the labelling of goods, it could potentially make thousands of Palestinian workers unemployed. Let me refer to one of several examples: the company SodaStream used to have its production on the West Bank. There, the company employed hundreds of Palestinians. Because of the international boycott operation against Israel, BDS, the company chose to move its operations to South Israel. In SodaStream, like employees in other Israeli companies, Palestinian workers were paid three to five times the local average wage. Palestinians working in Israeli businesses in the area, races. Business manager in SodaStream, Nabil Basharat, says: BDS has taken away my security and my income. Total employment of Israeli enterprises 35 000 Palestinians. All of these, and their families, have had a better life in every way. It is these socialists who want to take away the job because of a principle that those covered are themselves opposed – except for leadership. An economy that interacts becomes interdependent. It creates trust. It is the confidence Europe's socialists are trying to tear down. Finally, let me remind you that in 2012 Israel received 81 pst. of all exports from the Palestinians. And Israel's imports were 70 pst. of all imports – i.e. 27 pst. by GDP. I think the proposers are doing the best they can to vote against their own proposal. If they want the Palestinians the best – and now I am not talking about the Palestinian leaders, but about those who live in the area and who work for their wages and have to feed their family – please vote for your own proposal or not. This will be the best thing for both Israel, the Palestinians and peace in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1310	The Israeli-Palestinian conflict has taken place entirely since the Palestinian mandate area was divided as a result of the establishment of the State of Israel. Today Palestine consists of the West Bank including East Jerusalem and Gaza. There are 600,000 to 800,000 bus drivers on the West Bank and in East Jerusalem. Countless UN resolutions have said that the busts are illegal and contrary to international law. Between others in June 2018, Norway voted in favour of the United Nations Resolution on Palestine. The decision aimed at protecting the civilian population in Palestine, including Gaza. Minister of Foreign Affairs Ine Eriksen Soreide then stated that the resolution in its entirety was in line with Norway's long-standing commitment to help resolve the conflict between Israel and Palestine, and with our efforts to put in place a negotiated two-state solution. For us who are concerned that local food production is a basic preparedness and a necessary nourishment in any country, it is easy to understand that the lack of food sovereignty for the Palestinian region sets limits on a future Palestinian state. I traveled around myself and looked at why Palestinian businesses cannot build large and solid jobs, and why neither can they produce food. So to the representative Tybring-Gjedde, I'd like to suggest a study trip, so maybe he'll get an answer to some of his questions. The United Nations states that every country has the right and the duty to give birth to its own people. The use of own natural resources is fundamental in all national structures. It is difficult to see a future for Palestine without food sovereignty and opportunities to create jobs on our own natural resources, as we have done in Norway when we have built our country. When this is said: Why, however, will the Senter Party vote against the submitted by SV and the Workers' Party in the Chamber today? This is primarily because we do not fully see the consequences of how the decision is implemented, how it should be organised and implemented. There is a process in progress in the EU, but I support the representative Tybring-Gjedde’s interpretation of it – or maybe it was Tetzschner, sorry: that no binding decision has been taken so far. Now, the central party of those who think we should necessarily wait for the EU and follow it all in one place, but when it comes to developing such a system for how it should be done, at least our group would like to have a little bit more meat on the bone before any one comes along and supports such a proposal. And then it also has to be said that this is a question where not all of the Center Party members are necessarily quite a few, there is a strong view on both sides. It might also ask my post, and if there was another representative here, the post might have had a different angle. The central party is a fan of popular government. We support both Israel's and the Palestinians' right to their own state, and it is urgent to find a solution if it is still possible. In my days in the area, I saw the bus drivers and buses expanding, and it happens from week to week and from month to month. Should there be areas left to build a Palestinian state, hurry it. It is my message to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: that she claims it in the forums she is in – and I have no reason to doubt that she does. Norway, together with the rest of the world community, needs to intensify efforts to find a lasting solution to the conflict that has led to so great suffering for the civilian population, not least in the Palestinian regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1329	First of all, thank you very much to the rapporteur, who had a very nice, thorough and factual presentation of the matter. I'm the one who put this forward and made it, and I appreciate the Workers' Party joining in. Thank you very much to Michael Tetzschner, who is calling the undersigned for a spiritual leader who has influenced the Workers' Party to be involved in this. I doubt that the former foreign ministers Jonas Gahr Støre and Espen Barth Eide and others will think that I have such a great influence on them, but thanks for the recognition, it is very pleasant to hear. For the matter: in recent years there has been a growing pressure on Israel to demand that they respect international law, that they refrain from occupation and definitely not make money on occupation. That's the last thing that's actually about. It's about not making money on the occupation. The proposal that has now been promoted for Norwegian enlargement is based on a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union that, contrary to the Geneva Convention, goods are found to be illegally manufactured should be labelled in such a way that consumers have the opportunity to choose whether or not to buy these goods. So it's not about making a ban, it's just about making a labelling scheme, so that consumers can make ethical, conscious and political choices. That is what this proposal is about. The requirement on whom to mark is linked to the importer. So it is those who import the goods that will get the label requirement, but it is also in the proposal that details about who and responsibility for the labelling system we want the government to look at. So it's not about a boycott, because it's still going to be dealing with these goods. Many who are concerned about these questions might think that you should perhaps go further, perhaps with a ban, but I have chosen not to promote it for the Norwegian big business. Now it's only to follow up what the EU has put up with here. It is also not unbearable, as it emerged from one of the representatives in the hall here instead, from Tybring-Gjedde. It is a large majority for this in the European Union, and so it is the European Court of Justice that has meant this. Then claiming that all of these take unbearable decisions is quite strange. Nor is it necessarily just carried out by socialists; there is quite broad political support for this. It is important that Norway act in line with the forces that want to strengthen international international law, and here, in fact, the EU is showing its way. I can say that, which also believes that Norway should not be a member of the EU, but right here the EU actually shows its way. It is strange that counter-representations come from parties in Norway that are strong followers of the EU and that they do not want to follow the EU on this issue either. I record that the reservations made in the comments of the government parties are essentially about a little formal light, that Norway is not obliged to comply with this decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and to a small extent emphasises the political conditions that are actually the reason for this. In fact, the situation in the Middle East has escalated to the worse. Prime Minister Netanyahu now calls for annexation of the West Bank. So it's an enhancement of an occupation situation. This is supported by the United States. The fact that, with the support of the United States, Israel does not respect international law is quite legitimate for the world community to protest and also impose smart sanctions against, in the same way that world society, the EU and Norway participated in imposing smart sanctions against Russia after the annexation of Crimea. It is therefore quite legitimate, and I support the idea of imposing smart sanctions on a country that is fundamentally violating international law. It is a mantra that international law is Norway's most important defence. To strengthen and safeguard Norway’s sovereignty and security, agreements between countries must be respected. Those who then look through the Israeli violation of international law here not only weaken the cause of the Palestinians, but also weaken Norway's cause, because international law and strengthening it are vitally important in a large and broad context.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1350	It is important and right that the government has a balanced approach to this Middle East conflict, which they have both in the Jeløya and Granavolden platform, that they stick to the goal and work systematically for a two-state solution, is clear that Israel's occupation of the West Bank is contrary to international law, and also works purposefully to contribute to a more democratic development in the Palestinian territories, where there has been no elections since 2006. I totally disagree with the previous speech by the author that this proposal is a kind of part of a sanction against Israel. I believe that in this case only the consumer's right to know where the goods they buy come from – as the case-rapporteur also pointed out. I think it's with the approximation you can figure out a solution. In Norway, this is regulated by the Food Information Regulation. However, it has proved to be, as this judgment, or this preliminary ruling, in a French court asking for clarification from the European Court of Justice, shows, that it has been difficult to find a solution to this problem even in European countries. Solutions around labelling schemes are practised differently across Europe. There is currently no apparent and compatible model for this. I hope, on the left, that the European Union ruling points to the proposal for a representative can help to bring about such a common European solution. I also stress that the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his letter points out that there is a need for uniform interpretation and application of the rules, and that the issue will be kept under constant review by the government. I believe that this proposal for a representative, as it is designed, will not solve the complex matter of introducing a labelling system. I think it is right for the government to follow up on the impact of this ruling, what else in Europe will be like. I think we can also find a solution for a branding scheme, but then it is important that it is precisely what is being discussed – that this is about the consumer's right to know where the goods they buy come from, and not about a positioning in a very complicated conflict in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1363	Let me first thank the case rapporteur, Marianne Marthinsen, for her work on the suspension and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Department's written briefing on matters relating to the SV's draft representative. The recommendation shows that the three proposals from SV only receive support from the minority in the Committee, i.e. from SV, who rely on an EU case, and from the Workers' Party. And then we wait for the Central Party to stop waiting for the EU. The Christian People's Party will not vote in favour of the proposals put forward by SV in its proposal, and there are good reasons to reject the proposals. The questions addressed by the draft representative are addressed by the government as part of Norway’s overall policy towards the parties to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians, including the work on a two-state solution based on a peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinians. For us, it is not appropriate to prejudge the government's negotiations. Under changing governments, Norway has never found it appropriate to address such changes but, on the contrary, have a balanced approach to the Middle East conflict. Many may also make this and other demands of SV and Red on restrictions on Israel in connection with the international BDS movement, which requires boycott, disinvestment and sanctions against Israel. It is a unilateral campaign against Israel. It is perceived by many as an attempt to stigmatise both academic, cultural and economic relations with the State of Israel, its institutions and its citizens. Yes, there is clearly something to criticise in Israel, as in other countries – not to mention in the Palestinian territories. However, as far as democracy, rule of law and the protection of human rights are concerned, Israel is not the worst, but rather the best, in the region. Should some be boycotted, other countries are more attractive for mowing, not least in the Middle East, but it obviously requires that you want to use the same scale on everyone. The effect of unilateral boycott claims on Israel is that the conflict is becoming more polarized, and among the losers are those who work for peace and reconciliation. I do not believe that unilateral boycott decisions will work constructively for Norway in the area, and not at all in the efforts to promote peace in the conflict. Unfortunately, there are many obstacles to a peace settlement. They exist with several parties. Among the most important is that Hamas, Islamic Jihad, and other militant Palestinian groups will not accept the passing of the State of Israel. After the Hamas militia took power in the Gaza Strip in 2005, the Palestinian territories were, in effect, divided both politically and geographically. Palestinian self-government agencies have run the West Bank, while Hamas has run the Gaza Strip, and Hamas will neither be disarmed nor have peace with Israel. With this rivalry of power on the Palestinian side, it is not easy for the more moderate to make compromises, which must be part of a peace agreement. And many in Israel have asked if they have any longer partners for peace, for who can actually make agreements that are binding on behalf of the Palestinians? I myself have experienced more study trips to Israel and with the party always visited both parties, both Palestinian and Israeli authorities, visited the conflict areas and met the fear, thoughts and feelings on both sides. The Christian People's Party's view of the Middle East conflict is known, and it has been followed up by us further both in government position and in opposition. We want to promote fair peace and reconciliation, and have for decades supported the work of a peace agreement, as Israel succeeded in relation to two of its Arab neighbours, Egypt and Jordan. Unilateral action does not resolve the conflict; a peace agreement is needed. It requires painful compromises. President Clinton arranged for it all around the turn of the century, and others have tried later. A solution requires good and strong leadership on both sides, with authorities capable of making commitments that are followed up and respected. It is this that enables all, both Israelis and Palestinians, Jews as well as Christians and Muslims to be guaranteed respect for their rights, and that their children can live in peace and cooperation. That goal must not be lost in a short-term game of attention, political power, rivalry and the intransigence of extremists.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1388	I think the speeches so far in the debate well illustrate the complexity of this matter. For several years and under changing governments, the Norwegian authorities have taken a balanced view of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Our basic positions are based on a broad, cross-political consensus. The main lines of the Norwegian engagement policy are determined, including under this government. It is only a negotiated two-state solution that can create lasting peace between the parties. The government considers the Israeli settlements on the occupied territory to be international law-enforcement, and we express that at regular intervals. They constitute an obstacle to a negotiated two-state solution. The Norwegian position is enshrined in resolutions of the UN Security Council and in the judgment of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. The UN Security Council has asked the UN Member States to refrain from providing assistance to Israel in relation to the Israeli settlements. The International Court of Justice in The Hague has held that third countries have an obligation not to support their settlements. For Norway, this implies an obligation not to apply support measures and to counteract activities that support illegal settlements. This commitment has been followed up by the Norwegian side in several ways, including: by delimiting the geographical scope of the EFTA Free Trade Agreement with Israel, which has been the subject of several. At the same time, neither these governments nor previous governments have found it appropriate to introduce mandatory consumer-oriented labelling of goods from the Israeli settlements. As the rapporteurs point out, such a label scheme has been the subject of debate for several years. Proposals have been put down in the Stortinget for several rounds in the last time – in December 2017 and by June 2019 at the latest. It is an expression of the complexity of the matter. Norway has close, long-term and friendly relations with both Israelis and Palestinians. The parties see us as impartial and consistent. We have high confidence from key actors in the conflict. The fact that Norway is considered to be a predictable partner has been essential in order to contribute to the overall work of a peace agreement and a two-state solution. A broad network of contacts and close cooperation with the parties has supported our long-standing leadership of the donor countries group for Palestine, AHLC. Through the donor country group, we work to strengthen the institutional and economic basis of the two-state solution. It is the only body where the parties, together with donors, the EU, the United States and others, meet regularly, twice a year. It's also where we lay the groundwork for solving challenges between the parties. This does not mean that Norway is holding back legitimate criticism. In our contacts with Israeli and Palestinian authorities, we are clear that international law must be respected. Israel is well aware of Norwegian views on the settlements. A possible consequence of the draft representative could be that our balanced approach is being called into question. Restrictive measures aimed at one party can be interpreted as choosing a side of the conflict. If that happens, it could reduce our ability to influence the parties and make the negotiating trail even more demanding. The content of the opinions delivered by the European Court of Justice in November has been well explained, both by the rapporteur and others. I will not repeat too much of what is stated in the reply letter I sent to Stortinget, but, as I wrote in the reply, the various aspects of this matter are for consideration by the government. That assessment process also includes deciding whether there are any particular considerations that suggest that Norwegian legislation should derogate from the corresponding EU legislation in this particular case. In the meeting with the changing context on the ground, we still have to make difficult adjustments. In situations of conflict such as this, there is often a demanding balance where different measures and instruments to put pressure on the parties need to be assessed against each other. The government is working to get the parties back to the negotiating table. That's the overall objective of our work, especially in AHLC. It was said by the representative Petter Eide that little attention was paid to the political situation. I mean, on the contrary, that's what we're doing. We place great emphasis on the political situation and the very special and unique role Norway has, which can contribute positively to the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1412	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1417	First of all, I do not want to deprive the representative Petter Eide of his new status as spiritual leader of the Workers' Party, but it is appropriate to recall that the Workers' Party made a decision already in 2014 that we wanted a labelling scheme for goods from the occupied territory. Then I have two short questions for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. One is simply: when can we expect the government to have completed this matter? This has been an assessment for a long time. The second is this question of balanced approach. If Norway adopts a completely different approach to this issue than the rest of Europe, does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that a balanced approach has been taken — that is what Norway sends?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1428	First of all, this is part of the government's assessment. I can't say now when we're done with that assessment, but as the representative Ola Elvestuen also had it, there's so far no consistent practice in the European Union around this either, and I don't think we can expect it in the near future either. But this is, as I said, part of our basis of assessment, and there are other things that are part of it. Then I find it interesting to note that the then committee leader Anniken Huitfeldt in VG wrote in July 2014 that she agreed that this was not a simple matter, and that as long as there were serious attempts to get political negotiations on a two-state solution, the previous government had failed to promote such a proposal. I believe that is an expression of just the complexity the matter travels. It is not balancing with the EU that is the issue here; it is balancing with the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1435	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for your answer. I think we fully agree that it is the signal effect on the parties to the conflict that is the point here, but it would also be a signal to the parties to choose a completely different approach from the rest of Europe. So I'm following up with a couple of quick questions. One is the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned in his intervention on stranger matters. What kind of strange relationship is it really she's seeing that we're going to choose a different approach from the rest of Europe? The second is an argument that has appeared both here in the hall today and from e.g. the Tetzschner party trap of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in Dagsnytt 18 last week, an argument that there is no need for a labelling scheme for Palestinian workers, i.e. that maintaining the basis for the occupation would be in the interests of the occupied people. Is that a position shared by the Minister for Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1444	I think it's okay to roll back to what's the starting point for this discussion, and it's essentially about how we're going to deal with the role we have, which we've had for a long, long time after the Oslo agreement. The goal of that commitment is to help get the parties back to the negotiating table. It is something that I and the government believe is a very important argument that we can look at a strange relationship, that we have a very unique role compared to other countries, for example. EU country. We have managed that role through alternating governments in such a way that we can continue to play a role and draw things in a positive direction in what is an incredibly complex, long-lasting and devastating conflict. In that very perspective, it is possible to highlight strange conditions in what would normally be a desire to have as consistent an approach as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1449	Thank you again to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for your answer. She answered the first question so carefully that she was not allowed to answer the second question, so I took a new line to give her another chance. The argument that it is in the Palestinians' own interest that we avoid such a type of labelling scheme is an argument shared by the Minister for Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1456	There is no doubt that there are many Palestinians working in these areas. There's no doubt about it. Our main argument has been about the role we play – that we act in a balanced way, that we are perceived by the parties to be able to play a role and have a positive impact on what is an unusually settled conflict. That's among the things that we're going to, of course, put a lot of emphasis on when we make our assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1461	I stand here with the letter of reply from the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the Committee, and I must admit that at the first reading of it I was quite positive, because the letter of reply recognises this provision in the European Court of Justice as valid and relevant, and that is good. I also feel that to some extent some steps are being taken towards that proposal. I read the following: ‘The purpose-based interpretation of the EEA Agreement, as well as the obligation of loyalty, normally requires uniform interpretation and application of the rules.’ In other words, Norwegian application of these rules is also sought in the EU. So what's wrong with this case? What makes it impossible to follow the Court of Justice of the European Union in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1471	As I have repeated in a few of the answers, this matter is for assessment by the government, and it also appears in the reply letter. The first part of the section currently read by the representative Eide also deserves to belong to the sentence: ‘Pracsis of the Court of Justice of the European Union after 2 May 1992 is not formally binding on Norway under the EEA Agreement, but such subsequent practices will nevertheless be given great importance.’ It's first in the section. As I answered the question from Marianne Marthinsen, it is precisely our role in trying to get the parties back to the negotiating table, trying to keep a peace process going, which, in our opinion, is also a possible curious reason that can justify not following what will not be legally binding on Norway either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1485	I am asking about this because I am trying to understand what is the understanding of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Normally, Norway will go a long way to follow what is decided in the European Court of Justice, as I read the letter of reply. But then there's something in this that makes you choose not to do it here. I am trying to get to grips with what is in this proposal, in the European Court of Justice, which means that Norway, against normal, will not follow it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1490	First of all, with reference to the previous debate we had, it is always touching to hear SV talk in order to follow several of the decisions of the European Court of Justice. But leave it alone, there's another discussion and another debate. I will now try a third time to explain what I mean by strange relationships. These include: the role that we have in contributing to a negotiated two-state solution – a role that changing governments have taken on, which Norway has endured for a very long time, and which I believe is important, because not many are currently able to play a constructive role in what is a very fixed conflict. You can turn it upside down and ask if the representative Eide believes that Norway should not have such a role, because when we have such a role, it also follows something with it. That means we have a very good dialogue with both sides. It is a strong desire of both parties that we should maintain the role of head of the donor country group, and we believe that it is the best option we have now to build institutions that can in the long run make a two-state solution possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1500	Yes, of course, both parties who violate international law or exercise human rights violations must be criticized. There should be a balanced criticism of those who are doing this. Of course it should be so. I'll also say that in my next post. But back to this: It says here that this case is subject to government assessments. Is it possible for the Minister for Foreign Affairs to be something more concrete? What concrete initiatives are now being considered? And what's going on? What kind of new information or other type of initiative is it that the government wants to go this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1505	As in the UK government, from 2005 to 2013, assessments are also made in this government. When SV was in government, the assessment that was made was that it was not possible to promote such a proposal because it was thought that there were good reasons to be cautious. That's still the case. It is also one of the reasons why we should now make our assessment in the light of the preliminary ruling given by the European Court of Justice. But the arguments that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre used at the time to avoid entering into a labelling scheme are also valid today. And I mention it just to bring out the complexity that the case travels.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1510	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1517	It is a little unparliamentary, perhaps, but I am ‘unsatisfied’ with the fact that this proposal for a representative is being voted down today, and that we have a majority who will support it. It is also in line with the government platform, which says that we should ‘base a balanced approach to the Middle East conflict’, and which I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs has presented in an excellent way five or six times in the Chamber now, in turn in the post and in the line change. This proposal is entirely in line with what is on the government platform, that is, we do not support it. On the other hand, there is a clear movement in the Storting in the attitude towards the Middle East. It is only to note that Israel has fewer and fewer friends in Norwegian politics. Surprisingly, the Workers' Party has also joined that circle. It's no surprise that the Socialist Left Party is going in to hit Israel, the party has never concealed its line in these questions. What is remarkable, on the other hand, is that the Labour Party supports the proposal. It is no longer a party that is to be recognized in terms of its approach to the Middle East. Having a balanced approach is thus abandoned. When the Workers' Party is united with the Socialist Left in all the proposals promoted to mark goods from the West Bank, it is clear. The aim is to hit Israel financially, just like various boycott proposals that are known from other actors. Although this proposal has its origins quite elsewhere, in a preliminary ruling from EU law, there is no interest in other EU labelling schemes for proposers and their supporters. It's only the opportunity to hit Israel financially that's the interest. The Socialist Left Party is not known as an avid EU member, but is equally fully opportunistic when the occasion comes. I have expressed it elsewhere in this case, that when you are against Israel, everything is legal. On the right, we want to deal with the Norwegian Food Information Regulation as it is, and if changes are required by the EEA Agreement, we will deal with this when this becomes the case. But as of today, Stortinget says no to such an opportunistic, anti-Israeli policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1528	I want to start by showing you a little bit of a parallel debate. In the debate on Western Sahara, I would like to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs for being very clear – for having clear opinions, but also for having clear official advice. We see that has an effect. Last week, it was revealed that Equinor has transported gas to Western Sahara. Then they said they should never have done that, and they should never do that again. It shows that our foreign policy instruments are working. Therefore, I believe it is incomprehensible that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will not use the same instruments in relation to the occupation of the West Bank, and that she does not say that she will be in a labelling of Israeli subsidies, so Norwegian consumers have the opportunity to make independent choices. We hear in her posts and in the posts from the Right-wing Representatives that they are very afraid to be biased. Well, then it's incomprehensible that Israel is the only country in the world that has received positive publicity in the government statement they're after. There's a clapping on the shoulders of Netanyahu and the most right-wing government Israel has ever had. Because it's with a dark background we're discussing this matter. The elections in Israel and their new government have given rise to a situation where the dream of a two-state solution can disappear. It is mainly the parties that are put in a completely new situation, but also the world community is. Then we have to think again, as we have always done. There is a lot of talk about the Workers' Party from Right-wing Representatives. Well, the Labour Party has always thought new on these issues – from when Norwegian politicians in the 1980s began to meet the PLO, to peace initiatives in the 1990s, and to the red-green government, which, with foreign ministers Jonas Gahr Støre and Espen Barth Eide, was the only one who recognised the Palestinian government and went away from talking about the concept of Palestinian territories to talk about Palestine. When we see that it is Sweden and other European countries that go ahead. It is no longer a debate on Norway to be able to go ahead, the question is how far we are going to go. What the Storting is saying no today is saying no to what very many other EU countries are doing in practice. Ingerd Schou used his speaking time to say that this was anti-Israeli politics. Well, that's what the rest of the European countries do. To Michael Tetzschner, who thought this was a whole new policy: well, then he goes very poorly with it. This has been the Labour Party's policy since 2014, and we have had a new policy on the ground – in response to an increasingly brutal occupation, we also need to be able to change policies. I believe that the handling of this matter shows that this government is very little prepared to do just that. Michael Tetzschner and Ingerd Schou were in their speeches most concerned with twisting and twisting at all that the Workers' Party believes, while the contributions of the Progress Party and what we heard from Christian Tybring-Gjedde were not mentioned in a single word. I think it's mostly about the migration representatives Michael Tetzschner and Ingjerd Schou have done in politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1545	I was going to catch up with some of the counter performances that have come up, so I take the opportunity to do so. First to Ola Elvestuen, who believes that we should deal mainly with consumer opportunities in this matter – in other words, not with a political context, but more with the ability to give consumers the opportunity to make ethical and political choices. I think it's important, but I don't think that's enough. This matter just comes up because it is a very serious political context associated with it. There's a growing conflict in the area. It's an aggressive occupation policy. It has been approximated that there is an annexation of the areas. It's human rights violations from both sides. Yesterday we were told that Israel had bombed a family home in response to a family member’s assistance in a terrorist act. In other words, the family was punished. It was a collective punishment. There is an increasing conflict, and it is clear that the EU would not have taken that discussion and made that decision if it had been independent of it. This isn't about a boycott. Tskedal referred to the word «boikott» eight times, as far as I could count. Maybe there were more. It's putting up a strawman to say that this is a boycott proposal. I am against the boycott of Israel. I believe it is absolutely essential that a country where there are major international and human rights challenges should not be boycotted, precisely because it is important to hold them accountable. A country isolated by boikot will withdraw from the world community, and then it is completely impossible to hold them responsible for international agreements concluded. That's the opposite of what we're going to do. We're not going to boycott Israel. We're going to have close, close dialogue, and we're going to have diplomatic cooperation with them, but we're going to punish them smartly, so they can see that the world community is responding to what they're doing politically wrong. So stop calling this boycott, because it's not. I am against boycott, both by Israel and other countries. It's setting up a strawman, which is going to be completely wrong. Then it is used against SV many times – I have to say it, because Injerd Schou and Tetzschner have said it several times in previous debates, and the Foreign Minister also came up with it – that it is strange that SV will follow the EU when SV is so much opposed by the EU. No, it's never been that SV says "fy," "fy" to everything that the EU does. There is very much in the EU that is good, very much is good, and we applaud the climate action in the EU and also part of the EU's foreign policy. That is not why we are against the European Union. It's very much that's good. This proposal in the courts of the European Union is very good. It is cheap rhetoric to use our EU resistance against us in this matter, so I would also say that we want to have asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1558	As the Tuskedal representative was in the Chamber, it has been important for the Christian People's Party since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948 to have a good and friendly relationship with that State. Therefore it is a pleasure to see that Israel's ambassador to Norway, His Excellency Alon Roth, is present in the Chamber today and follows the negotiations. If there's anything history can teach us, it's that restrictions and intervention against free trade are one of the main causes of conflict and war. The conflict over the border area between Germany and France, the resource-rich Alsace-Lorraine, has caused three wars in Europe over the last 150 years. The underlying cause of the Japanese war of aggression in the Pacific during the war years was also a fear of being cut off from raw materials for a country that is very poor on the raw materials needed. Therefore, peace-building work is to contribute to the smooth functioning of trade between countries and is free of squeezing. That's why it was fun to attend a meeting just before Christmas between the Israeli Embassy, the Norwegian-Israel Chamber of Commerce and the Israel Friends Association here on the Stortinget, where the theme was just how to get more trade and relationships on research and development between our two countries. Involved in such a larger context, it is reassuring to see that SV, a party which in other contexts is very concerned with peace-building work and peaceful relations between states, chooses to resort to an instrument that contributes to the true opposite. I think there might be reason to ask SV and the Working Party about what the consequence is if one first goes on such a line. There's a lot of examples to do until then. I can carefully mention China's occupation of Tibet in 1951. If one goes on such a line as the Workers' Party and SV do now, should it also be so that goods coming from Tibet are marked in the same way? We in the Christian People's Party don't think it will help solve any problems, as little as it will solve a problem to label a sample of goods from Israel.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1569	I noticed that the Aukrust representative had a visit to the undersigned and my good colleague Schou in connection with whether this was an innovation in the Workers' Party's Middle East portfolio, and then it turned out that this is a position they have had since 2014. It has led some of us to hope that bad points of view – they are rarely advertised – will disappear. When this then comes up after six years, we still have to say that there is a new twist, even if you have had similar thoughts in the past. Of course, it doesn't make it any worse or better. I would also like to mention, once again, to prevent misunderstandings, since it was referred to a radio debate – where the representative Marthinsen wanted to construct a nuance difference between the undersigned and the Minister for Foreign Affairs: if you had heard kindly about that debate, which we always do when we hear the New Day 18, it would be understood by the context that this was not a main reason for one or the other, how a possible boycott-like penalty would work at the level of the company. But I think that when you do foreign policy, you should think through all aspects of a sanction or boycott-like action against another country – also to see if it has unintended effects on just those populations you say you will support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1576	I think it might be okay with some nuances in this picture. The representative of Åsmund Aukrust was concerned that he thought it was completely incomprehensible that the government had taken the position that we are now carrying out an assessment of this, and had not said yes to labelling. Then it is tempting to ask back what made the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre by a majority for eight years not introducing a labelling scheme – if that was the only or the right and best instrument to deal with this situation. I also noticed that there was a shift in the argument from Marianne Marthinsen's case rapporteur's posts, where this was a consumer question, to Åsmund Aukrust's posts, where these were symbolic policies or symbolic questions. There is no doubt that Norway, through changing governments, has criticised both sides for critical issues, whether it has been occupation or human rights violations. And one of the things that gives our criticism is that we have the relationship we have with both parties, that we play the role we do, that both parties want us to play that role, and not least that through the AHLC and what happens between the AHLC meetings, we help solve concrete problems and challenges. I have also commended both parties for the fact that in the situation we are now in with the pandemic, they have managed to cooperate well to prevent the spread of infection. I think it is important to commend the parties when they are able to cooperate on these important issues. In the Middle East context, you can always say that the next three months will be crucial. I think many people both inside and outside this hall have heard that. But it is also a reality this time. What we now see is that the parties that can have positive influence, or the countries that can have positive influence on the parties, those who can contribute to a good outcome for both Israelis and Palestinians, should now use that time effectively. This is what Norway is doing, and our goal is to get the parties back to the negotiating table to contribute to a two-state solution, which is the only dangerous way and sustainable solution to this very long-drawn and very complex conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1589	The proposal we are discussing today is for the labelling of goods produced in Israeli-controlled areas on the West Bank and the Golan Heights. The intention is clear, a desire to limit or prohibit economic relations with Israeli-controlled areas because of, among other things, the fact that there is a need to limit or prohibit economic relations with Israeli-controlled areas. claims that trade in Israeli settlements could be a violation of international law. Professor Kantorovitz of the Northwestern University School of Law has carefully assessed these questions against the perspective of international law. He points out that it has been common practice for countries to practice full opening for economic contact with areas under prolonged occupation or illegal recruitment. No country is obliged to block that type of activity, to require special labelling of goods or to prevent foreign assistance to such areas under international law. Freedom to introduce a boycott of goods produced in any territory is granted if it does not violate free trade agreements or other trade rules. But then it's for diplomatic or political reasons, not for legal reasons. We can also note a 2014 Supreme Court ruling in England that stated that Israeli economic activity on the West Bank does not violate international humanitarian law, and if it should do so, nevertheless, exports of relevant products will be lawful under international law under the Supreme Court in England. Groups in France claim that SodaStream branded its products falsely with the label ‘Made in Israel’ when parts of the shower machine were produced in an Israeli food park on the West Bank. This was rejected by a French court. It is therefore important to note that when a propose boycott of Israel, this is not done for legal reasons, but for political or other reasons. Then there is no need to conceal that Israel has clear improvement points in the enforcement of human rights. Israel is far from some perfect nation, but the country has mechanisms to strengthen human rights, functions that do not exist in other nations in the Middle East. In addition, the labelling of goods which in the next round could lead to the boycott of goods from the West Bank and the Golan Heights will primarily affect Palestinians. Many Palestinians depend entirely on being able to work in companies owned by Israeli companies to serve for their lives. That is actually the reality today. The Christian People's Party is working for a two-state solution that can create a new future for the Palestinians and secure borders for Israel. In our view, it is not the way to go about implementing measures as proposed today, which will quickly strengthen hatred and intransigence to the nation of the Palestinians as their closest neighbour.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1606	It was Petter Eide who said I had used the word "boikott" eight times, and then I had to find my script and read. I can reassure Petter Eide that I might have used it four times, so about half is a starting point. The first time I mentioned it, it was because it is justified that the BDS movement is behind a lot. That means Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions. And then I used the word three times afterwards in the extension of it. That was my reason for joining in, and I don't regret it, because it was originally a desire to boycott Israel in total – that didn't work out. Then one would have boycotted goods from Israel – that didn't work out. So now it's the marking, it's not about boycott. But the representative Eite decorated his introduction and said that it was only marking this time, so why couldn't the Storting join in? But when I read suggestion No. 3, from the SV and the Workers' Party, it is in a socialist spirit to introduce both control mechanisms and sanctions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1614	The debate is getting long when the foreign minister has to resort to the very diluted concept of eight red-green years. If, in debates on foreign policy, we were just going to discuss what happened six years ago, there would be no debate to have in this mess, because the world is changing. It cannot be used as an argument from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the grip that was not taken six to seven years ago cannot be taken today either. On the contrary, I believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs really agrees with us that she would like to put this matter to the vote. I don't think there's a big difference between Ine Eriksen Soreide and most other foreign ministers in Europe. I also do not believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs agrees that Israel should be the only country that should be brought forward positively in the Norwegian Declaration of Government. I think she disagrees with that, but has had to do it to appease the forces of the Christian People's Party, in the Advance Party and a couple also in the Right that we have heard in this debate. We heard from Michael Tetzschner that the Workers' Party was innovative. Well, in foreign policy you have to be innovative, you have to think new. I'll never use it as an argument against anyone, but it was really innovative when Michael Tetzschner talked about that it's not neat to talk about occupation. Well, I mean, it's nuance-free from international law. There is a clear occupation, and there is a very slip in the Right's argument in this case. Then we heard that the Minister of Foreign Affairs also tried to create a completely false contrast between me and the glittering contribution from the case-rapporteur, Marianne Marthinsen. We said the exact same thing. This gives Norwegian consumers the opportunity to refuse to trade goods made on illegally occupied land. We hear that a lot of the posts talk about boycott. Well, it's not about any boycott of Israel. No one has mentioned it. On the contrary, this is a very limited policy against what we want to live, namely the occupation. Finally, I would say that where the stretch has been very large, it is on the government side, and I think Ola Elvestuen made a good point as to why there were good reasons to go in for this. We have heard several of the representatives say that this is an assessment by the government, while others say that it is anti-Israeli and force hate in the region. Well, you can't mean both of them at the same time. One cannot both believe that it is anti-Israeli and that the government should assess this further. If the Christian People's Party does not listen to the Workers' Party in this debate, they should listen to many of the church organizations. Yesterday, there was a big mess from Changemaker, a Christian student organisation, and KFUK-KFUM who just addressed everything the Workers' Party has done in this matter. I hope they don't believe that those cancers are also anti-Israeli and contribute to more hatred in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1629	The representative Petter Eide had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1634	No, we're not going to do counting. I'll check afterwards how many times he said 'boikott'. My point is this: the world community is looking for ways to correct countries that are either violating international law, for example. through occupation, or deliberately represents serious violations of human rights. This is true in this case both on the Palestinian side and for Israel. We need to find mechanisms to criticise the countries and actors that are doing this. International international law and human rights are precisely based on finding instruments for both monitoring and criticism of each other. If you don't criticize these fractures and don't monitor each other, this will go away. Then it's almost pointless to have international agreements. Then we have to stop calling this a boycott proposal or a boycott-like proposal, as the representative Tetzschner calls it, because it is not about that. It's about a branding scheme to take care of the Geneva Convention's commitment not to make money on occupation. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1643	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1648	In my first post, I stressed that the Christian People's Party has historically had a good and friendly relationship with Israel. At the same time, it is an important part of our foreign policy that we want to contribute to peace and to peaceful coexistence between peoples. It is not the case that the right to peace, freedom and prosperity is reserved for individual groups of people, whether in the Middle East or elsewhere. I can assure the representative Petter Eide that if he takes some time to browse the Christian People's Party program for the current magnificence, he will be surprised to see how balanced the approach to the Middle East question is. Then I only find – before I go down – that neither the Workers' Party nor the SV have taken the opportunity to answer my question in my first post. If one first goes on such a line that products from given regions should be marked, what is the logic that one does not mark products from Tibet?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1657	I have no great desire to extend the debate, but I feel that it is important to have a little visit to the last post of the Aukrust representative. He says that today you can't discuss the grip you're allowed to take six years ago. Well, I think you can, because there's something about the strength of the presentation of the criticism of the government parties in this case because we have it under assessment. The representative Anniken Huitfeldt wrote in 2014 about the complexity of the matter, that it is not a simple matter. What surprises me is that not the Aukrust representative or other representatives from the Workers' Party and SV today recognize the same complexity as they clearly saw. And not only that: that time you actively made a choice not to promote a brand scheme, precisely because it was so complicated. The exact same arguments are there today. When we make government assessments, it's clear that it's among the things we're assessing. We're assessing how it will affect the possibilities of reaching what I see there is a full consensus about here in the hall, that is, a two-state solution. Of course, we will also consider whether it is Norway’s role to be at the forefront of matters which, both Palestinian and Israeli, can be seen as heavy symbolic items or whether our role is different. All of these assessments and these reflections we do, but I think it is very strange that the Aukrus representative cannot recognise – and acknowledge – that the same complex assessments and the same thing that made the Workers' Party actively fail to promote a labelling system when they are in government are also present today. Then I note that for the third time in two and a half years it is now a proposal that is being put to the vote and that it is only the Labour Party and the SV, with the support of Red, that will now be voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1670	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1687	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1694	On behalf of my colleague in the Left, the representative of Elvesuen, who was the case rapporteur for this matter, I would like to thank all the parties for their good treatment of the report. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development When the government’s communication on digitalisation in Norwegian development policy was presented, we were in a very different situation internationally than today. The current challenge is to combat the spread of the coronary virus. In a short time, the virus has spread across borders and is now a global threat to life, health and the economy. The fight against the outbreak has been a test – for our own country and for other countries. The pandemic has challenged some of our fundamental concepts of freedom, our definition of what a free society should be. This is a fight we will notice both in our own country and elsewhere in the world. At this time, we have seen how important digitisation has been to secure our democratic society, which has come through it in a good way. We've held digital hearings, public meetings and recording rounds. We have maintained contact between political, civil society and business. This would not have been possible to the same extent without digital instruments. We would be a more closed society. A screaming need for digitisation has not only become a reality in our own society. The message we are discussing today clearly shows the value of digitisation in developing societies. We have seen the liberating potential of digitisation, such as freedom from gender discrimination, corruption, environmental disasters and bureaucracy. These are just a few examples that are highlighted in the message. Examples show how digitisation can help to strengthen the conditions of freedom in the world. But it's not without challenges either. Privacy, Internet crime, social security – in all these areas, digitalisation in development policy gives us new challenges. We are not going to take these lightly, but we are not going to shade away from digitisation because we are afraid of the new challenges that come with technology. As in our own society, digitalisation will largely have a positive effect on other societies as well. Our task as politicians is to ensure the best framework conditions that enable technology to contribute and not reduce people's sense of freedom. When the Left first entered the Solberg government, there was a consensus that digitalisation in Norwegian aid should be given a stronger priority. It was about spending more money in a more sensible way. We know that digitisation affects almost all sectors of society. This is also the case in development policy. This overall perspective and this awareness we need to develop our further aid policy. I hope that the lessons learned from this digitalisation message will be reflected in future budget proposals. When we focus on digitisation, we should aim for what we do to help create free and open societies that can handle themselves. Coronasitis spreads along routes used for business and holiday travel. It is therefore not surprising that some of the poorest countries have not yet felt the effect of the pandemic. Nevertheless, there is a cross-thinking that lack of medical capacity, weak public institutions and low levels of trust between the population and government make it difficult to overcome the virus. We know that the capacity is particularly low in sub-Saharan Africa. The digital experience we have gained through this message, and the experience in combating the virus at home, has shown that digital instruments are among the most effective we have. I note that the opposition in the handling of this message has focused on the challenges of digitisation. I hope that the opposition will also focus on the possibilities that come with new technology. The coronary apathy has kept us apart. At the same time, it has brought us closer together as a nation. I hope that this new proximity will enable us to abandon party policy on such an important topic and instead to agree that digitisation is one of the most important areas of development policy in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1721	Digitalisation is not a goal in itself. The Communication outlines how digitisation is to address the challenges of government's priority areas of development policy. In particular, digitisation shall contribute to job creation and competitiveness in developing countries and increase investment in basic infrastructure. This shall be done in cooperation with private actors. It is positive that this Communication emphasises the role of the private sector — both what it can contribute and the importance of building local businesses and local jobs. Digitalisation can contribute to the development of banking services, which will allow for saving, insurance and credit. These are important offers if you want to start or expand a business. Digital tools can help farmers significantly improve their crops, for example: by training in the better use of fertilisers, irrigation and seeds and providing better information on market access and prices. Yara and IBM have jointly set up a digital agricultural platform to help farmers in poor countries increase crops, improve quality and income. In particular, digitisation provides new opportunities for young entrepreneurs in developing countries. It is positive that the government is investigating a grant scheme for tech companies with business ideas that could contribute to industrial development, technology transfer and job creation. But digitisation also has a dark side: cybercrime, surveillance and dissemination of dangerous and destructive ideas are also the result of increased digitisation. We're all well-known that there's an abuse against children, an assault that's streaming over the web. The attackers can sit in front of the screen in their own living room and order atrocities against children in other countries. Therefore, the note on child abuse over the Internet, which was initiated by the rest of the opposition, is very important. The party supporting this comment wholeheartedly. It is feared that increasing access to the Internet in the poor part of the world could lead to an increase in the incidence of video-transmitted abuses against children there as well. However, in many developing countries, there is a lack of resources and skills to investigate and identify these kinds of issues. In March this year, the first Kripos Liaison moved from Norway to Manila in the Philippines to work on assault cases. In a written question last March, the representative Per-Willy Amundsen of the Progress Party asked the Minister for Development about Kripos to obtain funding from the development budget for work on video-transmitted abuses against children in developing countries. The Progress Party believes that Norwegian aid will be well spent, and encourages the Minister of Development to give priority to this. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to add some comments to the much-mentioned sustainability goals, those that are often called a 'global effort', where all countries, rich as poor, will contribute to the eradication of poverty in the world. In total 17 main targets and 169 intermediate targets, all countries have agreed on how to do this. The objectives address themes such as hunger, health, education, equality, water and sanitation, energy, work, infrastructure, economic inequality, urbanisation, consumption and production, climate change, seas, forests and deserts, and legal protection. These are noble purposes that I think all more or less can join. The problem is that it might be too much. Is it one good purpose that is not in it? Apart from strengthening democracy – Interestingly, democracy is not mentioned at all – I think most good purposes are covered. The targets are sometimes very vague and stretch very wide. It is almost such that funding for any measure can be justified by a sustainability objective. If we don't prioritize, it'll be expensive. In the future, we need to be more effective at prioritizing what we spend on money. We have to assume that we have less money in the cash register now. We cannot, therefore, spread taxpayers' money beyond all that is allowed in the UN's sustainability objectives, even if we never agree with the intention behind the goal set. The Progress Party believes that we are now entering a time when we need to prioritise more in line with national interests. We can no longer be everything for everyone – always.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1746	The world is in a digital revolution that fundamentally changes the way we live and work, and the way we stick to each other. Countries that have managed to adhere to digital developments have achieved accelerated growth, increased opportunities and improved service delivery. Poor countries that are unable to exploit digital opportunities are increasingly lagging behind. The absence of infrastructure, limited availability of stable electricity, lack of literacy and low digital literacy are challenges in many places. This is precisely why this is an important initiative in Norwegian development policy. For the Centre Party, it is an important objective that Norwegian aid should be used effectively, so that we can help as much as possible. Much is happening both nationally and internationally before the use of new technologies and digitisation, but efforts are often fragmented and not coordinated. There is therefore a need for a more systematic and holistic approach to how digital transformation can have a greater impact on Norwegian development policy. Secure access to food is a fundamental human right. The centre party is therefore pleased that the message focuses on sustainable agricultural development and food security. Digitalisation in this field has a high potential to ensure food security and self-sufficiency in many developing countries. I want to highlight access to weather forecasting services such as: yr.no as a particularly useful trip for peasants, making them better equipped to protect their crops from extreme weather. Today has 70 pst. by the people of the world a smart phone. The smartphone has the potential to contribute to increasing both the quality and volume of the crop for small farmers. Access to nitrogen measurement through the use of the app, expertise and disease detection can make everyday life much easier for farmers. One can dispose of fertilisers, seeds and watering even better with this knowledge available. Norwegian efforts in this field are particularly important in development policy, as access to food and self-sufficiency are the mainstay of all communities. A Norwegian bet within technology and digitisation shall not only underpin established biased power structures. The initiative shall contribute to the smoothing of inequalities between women and men. The centre party believes that Norway needs to contribute more to ensuring girls' relevant digital competence in schools and training programmes and access to technology-related subjects in line with boys. The centre party will underline the importance of equality within digitisation, as it can give women new opportunities and improve living conditions. This is precisely why Norway needs to have an awareness of this area. Norway should also support under universally designed educational technological solutions, with objectives of learning for the most vulnerable. We need to be able to reduce the digital gap between countries and between groups in countries. Including and facilitating older people in digitisation processes should also focus on. This group is often exposed to being out-of-office in a digitalised society. The centre party wants Norway to have control of its own digital infrastructure. We also need to make it possible for other countries to have the same possibility. The focus on self-government and national ownership under digitisation processes is important, given both the sovereignty and national security of developing countries. One must ensure that processes do not result in a loss of national control. Clear requirements must be laid down for infrastructure developers and digital service providers. National laws covering ownership of infrastructure and data must be in place. We know that technological development can also have negative sides. High-tech solutions can underpin different forms of social and political control. China's social crediting of its inhabitants is one example of this. Different behaviour may be penalised by blacklisting, which in turn results in access to settings, goods and services. Inhabitants in countries with weak structures and low legal security have been particularly delayed in this respect. It is important to see the full potential of technological and digital developments. As most people in Norway have experienced, it makes our everyday life easier and more conservative – given access to the network and tools required, of course. In order to give people in a much poorer position than the Nordics access to such good, Norwegian development policies must give priority, but we must be honest with challenges that may arise as a result of a more digitised society, and especially where a robust justice system and governance are absent. Therefore, it is important that throughout the process we are concerned that marginalised groups do not suffer harm.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1767	It is both a privilege and a responsibility to live in a developed welfare society in a changing world where the good is uneven and often unfairly distributed. After the first shock in the Corona era, we have surfed on digital waves in our prosperity and see what benefits this gives us in almost every field. It is therefore gratifying that this communication is coming now, and I am particularly glad that there is such a great deal of political consensus about the importance. Should the notification lead to further efforts and progress, Norway has some contribution to make. The Communication defines and provides a strategic direction for digitisation in development policy, follows the recommendations of the UN High Level Panel on Digital Cooperation and is in line with sustainability objectives. Yes, the message says that it is not possible to achieve the 2030 targets without a digital revolution in digital aids. The introduction of digital tools and methods will streamline processes and change society as a whole. The Christian People's Party therefore welcomes and wants Norway to have a systematic and holistic approach to technology use in development policy. Together with our aid and cooperation partners, Norway has the opportunity to facilitate digitisation, among other things. in the form of renewable energy, network access and learning resources. Norway also has experience in public user-oriented ICT services, which can be of great benefit to its citizens. Increasing digitisation can also help increase information flow, participation, democracy and transparency. Main initiatives in development policy are health, education, climate, sea, industry and agriculture, renewable energy, human rights and the fight against modern slavery. In all these fields digital technology will be able to transform countries, as it has already done in many ways in our Norwegian everyday life. This work shall include human rights, climate and environment, equality and the fight against corruption and fake news. The message mentions that it is particularly important to reach the most marginalised. These may be people with disabilities, religious and sexual minorities and children who are prevented from going to school. Our efforts should reach as far as possible, and no one should be left out. Today there is a big gap between the status and the desired goal. Large parts of the world's population do not have access to the Internet, and others only use a fraction of the possibilities. It may be due to income, technical possibilities, education, gender or health. It is often the poorest and most isolated who suffer. The main barrier to mobile Internet use for both women and men is limited literacy and digital skills. It is an additional challenge that the most vulnerable groups are the most difficult to reach. Another factor is that measures must take into account demographic, cultural and ethnic conditions. Otherwise, digitisation can lead to exclusion. In some countries, ethnic minorities have been excluded and the notification reports that more than 75 pst. of the stateless persons of the world belong to a minority group. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government is establishing a grant scheme for corporate support for business development in developing countries aimed at start-ups. The objective of the scheme shall be to provide grants to tech enterprises with business ideas that could contribute to industrial development, technology transfer and job creation in developing countries. There shall be an open regime for both Norwegian and foreign applicants. The notification relates to a number of specific projects and environments of competence and refers to important experiences. Countries such as Norway and other countries familiar with digital platforms have experienced developments that have given us considerable competence. This needs to be brought together, coordinated and brought to the knowledge of countries that have a longer path to avoid elementary error. In this way, the Christian People's Party and I want the Norwegian environment of competence and political will to show up from its most extreme point of view, so that this will benefit poorer countries in the foreseeable future. So it's important to remember that technology alone doesn't solve all the challenges, but when used properly, it's one of several crucial tools for creating a better society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1790	I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for a thorough and good attitude and for constructive comments. We are in the midst of a difficult situation, yes, almost an unreal reality. Just as we're going to put an extra blow into the work of eradicating poverty and reaching out for all the other sustainability goals, and just as we're presenting increased digitisation as an important tool to achieve these goals, the coronary apathy occurs. It only makes the job more difficult and digitisation even more important. Under the pandemic that now hosts the world, we're all using digital tools on a very different scale than before. The world's poor does not have the same opportunity as us to meet without meeting, or to carry on important social activities from home offices. That is why I particularly welcome the Committee's comment that no one should be left out, that we should work to prevent exclusion and to reduce the gap between those who have access and opportunities, and those who do not. This is what is going to permeate our development policy. There are enormous opportunities in digitisation. We know this from home, and I know it from my meeting with different groups and different projects that we have, including. with the farmers in Nepal who were able to double their turnover when they were equipped with an app that gave them both access to the weather forecast, with Yr – representatives already involved – and also access to customers. Between two and three billion people still lack access to the Internet or digital tools, and they are in danger of being excluded even more than they already are. This means that we need to act faster, strengthen what we are already doing, and respond to initiatives from our partners, contribute to increased access, greater digital skills and content of higher quality in everything from health and agriculture to learning, job creation, entrepreneurial activity and climate and environmental monitoring. We have gone into the brink of building an alliance of countries, organisations and companies that, together with the United Nations, will ensure high-quality digital, global common good, which will be available on an open, advertising-free, quality-secured platform. Among the digital assets we have made available to the world, I will mention the Norwegian flagship The Global Digital Library. The books can be read or printed digitally. Where there is no digital infrastructure, books can be played over local radio. So far, the global digital library has received books in 42 languages. A job to expand it further into the summer. Norway has also developed a free mobile application for language and writing training in refugee camps. The application Feed The Monster is available in 45 languages, and an evaluation of mobile learning games in a refugee camp in Jordan shows that children can strengthen their reading skills by 50 pst. 50 pst. – these are amazing results! Together with its partners, the University of Oslo has developed a health information system that has been implemented in over 65 countries and is estimated to reach more than two billion people. With Norwegian funding, the same actors responded immediately to the coronary apathy by providing a data package to monitor and monitor virus prevalence in several developing countries. Access is essential for the implementation of digital solutions. Here we cooperate with the World Bank through the Multi-stakeholder Digital Development Partnership Fund and focus on, among other things. in Africa. We also consider cooperation with UNICEF and the International Telecommunications Union, the ITU, to ensure access for the poor. It has been updated more than ever — digital common resources for students and teachers. Norway also supports the Bank’s commitment to job creation, which aims to provide 50 million young people with job-related training and to create 25 million jobs by 2025. Unfortunately, the time we are in is also creating new challenges for monitoring and public authorities' social control of the population and for net acts against children. We see regimes that use the chance to tighten the grip. Strengthening the principles and legal certainty of the rule of law in digital space is central to the government’s strategy for digitisation, just as human rights are the foundation of everything we do in development policy. Secure digitisation is more important than ever. In the race for sustainability goals, we will face the inherent dangers and turn all the stones to exploit the opportunities and reach even more of the most vulnerable. Or, as the representative Kornmo initially said, we should not take the challenges lightly, but we should not ignore the opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1818	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1835	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to each of the other party groups and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1842	We have, as the President said, for discussion document 8:60 S for 2019-2020, a proposal by the representative of the Björn Moxnes. The background to the proposal is that we have discussed in Stortinget Riksrevision's report Document 3:11 for 2018–2019, the National Audit Office's study of infrastructure and support functions for the operational capabilities of combat aircraft. When we dealt with that matter, it was completely secret, partly classified Limited and partly – the report itself – classified Confidential, i.e. with even more stringent security. During this examination, we tried by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs to provide as open and democratic a treatment as possible, given that the documents could not be published. We started the process of talking to all the parliamentary leaders in order to try to find a way of dealing with the Storting in such a special case, which was to ensure the ability of all the representatives to gain access to and familiarize themselves with the documents of the case. We agreed with the National Auditor, who agreed to – if necessary – meet in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. That means that in that case all the parliamentary leaders could be present and ask questions to the Riksrevisor. So I don't think it's dangerous to say from the closed hearing we had, that of course we also asked there about the possibility of more transparency. We did that on behalf of – I think – all parties. It is mentioned that this case reminds me a little of a previous case, where the Riksrevision wanted to publish a report on object protection – I refer to the object protection case from the previous ageing period, not the one we have dealt with in this period – but there was a disagreement between the Riksrevision and the Defence. In this case, there is agreement between the Riksrevision and the Defence that that report could not be published. So we in the control committee are concerned with more transparency. As I said, we asked about it at the hearing. In addition, I refer to the setting where it says – unanimously: ‘That is why, in the view of the Committee, the public should be sought as much as possible around the studies carried out by the National Audit Office.’;» Recently, I have read in some media that Stortinget, based on the setting for the handling of this matter, keeps documents secret. It's completely wrong. So it's a documentary – it's the information from the Ministry of Defence and the report from the National Audit Office that's secret. So the Stortinge treats a secret report. That doesn't mean the Storting keeps secret. This proposal also refers to the transparency of the F-35 in the US National Audit Office. Yeah, we don't have to go that far. We can go to Denmark and look at the openness with which they deal with the defence capabilities of their defence, in the light of the reports provided by the Danish National Audit Office. I think it's a good example that it's possible to achieve more transparency than what we have, and that's why the committee thinks it's important to strive. I am very concerned – whether it has been in force through the times of other security work, or in this case the responsibility of the defence for security – that we must ensure that, under the pretext of security, there is never any political convenience hidden. We have a common responsibility to keep track of that. When we recommend what we do – apart from the Socialist Left Party, which will certainly justify its own proposal that the Storting should ask the government in consultation with the National Audit Office to ensure that a report on the Riksrevision's examination of this issue is published – it is because we have asked for it. And not only that: the question is repeated in dealing with this matter, and the answer from the Minister of Defence is printed on. So there's nothing we can publish. That is why we are proposing that the proposal should not be adopted. Since it has become known today that the representative Moxnes has tabled two additional proposals – two solutions – I can signal that if Moxnes chooses to reword them so that they go to the Presidentship of the Storting, which in that case is the right address, he will receive the Workers' Party's support for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1868	Thanks to the rapporteur for a thorough review of the matter that has been under consideration. The reason I take the floor is that the matter that has been – it has so far been Terje Andersen answered well – has been, and we cannot do anything about it. But we just want to signal that we have a great deal of understanding of the intention that we perceive in the loose proposals that Moxnes has promoted today and that we are having a debate on how best to deal with such proposals for the future. It's a useful debate to take, and we think that's good. And I think that the form is a little strange, that the Storting imposes on a sample set up by the presidency, where the mandate has been given by the Presidency, a new task. So we think it would be a good idea to support the proposals if they were to be converted into the presidency for follow-up, so that those who are mandated can move on with it to the committee that looks at the control functions of the Storting, so that these things too can be seen. I hope we can do that, and in that case we will support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1877	The acquisition of the new fighter aircraft is the largest individual public acquisition in Norwegian history. Even now that Stortinget grants many billions in the fight against the coronary crisis, the price tag for these planes is staggering – estimated lifetime cost of 276 billion. kr, it speaks for itself. And the fainting price, among other things, affects our entire defense; it is clear that the price of such a great acquisition must be taken elsewhere in the defense. We've made ourselves very dependent on this fighter aircraft. That is why the report that Stortinget has dealt with becomes very important. And since this is a matter that is so unusually important to the country, SV, together with the others in the control committee, the entire committee, wanted as much transparency as possible about the content, because we believe that the public has a right to know what kind of findings the Riksrevision has done about the acquisition of combat aircraft, within what is possible in terms of safety. Even after the Riksrevision's report has been finalised, SV believes that the public has a clear interest in knowing more about what it says, for further choice and discussion about such an important project. But it hasn't been easy. So those who own the information have opposed this, they've asked if it's possible, and it certainly hasn't been. Considerations as to whether this is correct or not, whether it is something in the report that could have been public, it is impossible to say anything about it here – for an open size – so I will not try to do that either. In any case, SV is promoting the proposal in this case, to ask the government, in consultation with the National Audit Office, to ensure that a new report is published on the content of those investigations, where as much information as is made public as is appropriate. It is well possible that there had been a report so marked by gossip that it had not given particular meaning to read it, but it would at least give a clear order and an intention of more transparency in an important matter from this room. And when SV has to choose, we choose more transparency, because it's worth striving for, even when it's hard, yeah, maybe especially when it's hard. So even though the other parties are not on that proposal, I'm at least glad that the entire committee underlines the need for more transparency in the future, and we'll remember to keep all parties responsible for it at the next crossroads. Then there have been two loose proposals from Red, with which SV also shares the intention, and we hope that the representative Moxnes will say something more about the shape of those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1890	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1895	The National Audit Board has carried out an investigation into infrastructure and support functions for the operational capability of combat aircraft, which concludes with serious criticism. This purchase is the largest individual public procurement ever in Norway, and it has major economic consequences, not least for the Defence. The estimated lifetime cost of the fighter aircraft is 276 billion. kr, but with the errors revealed in the US National Audit Report, plus the dollar rate, the figure could be significantly larger than this. That is why Red has proposed that the matter should be discussed and dealt with openly at Stortinget as far as is sound for safety reasons. The U.S. National Audit Report, published in several rounds, reveals serious deficiencies in the fighter aircraft and its support functions. There was an open congress hearing in the United States about these deficiencies. Among the deficiencies, there are parts that break faster than promised, a maintenance system that works so poorly that the planes cannot take off, and the cannons cannot manage to shoot properly. So the question is, why are Norwegians going to get less information from our authorities than the Americans get from their own? It's the inhabitants who pay for these planes, not us at Stortinget. That is also why Red believes that we should get a report with up-to-date information – which is apparently available, according to the Council of State – and that it should be published. It will also be in line with the rules deriving from the National Safety Authority’s guidance that the safety rating should not be made more extensive than is necessary and that it is fully feasible, as set out. the same supervisor, to show which parts of a report have which grading or no grading. It is appropriate to ensure that as much information as possible becomes available. It is also the precedent for this, cf. what happened in the 2018 Stortinget control case. Trust is something politicians can't demand, but what we deserve, and keeping secret reports is something that probably undermines trust, not least in a matter that has so much to do with costs and consequences for our entire defence. Red has changed the wording of the two loose proposals at the request and at the suggestion of SV, so that we now ask the presidency to change the mandate of the so-called Harberg Committee, and we hope that we can achieve unanimity in the Stortinge around the two proposals at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1910	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1915	Let me start by saying that information about the operational capability of the defence could harm national security interests if it becomes known to unauthorised persons. In general, there will be a need to grade all or part of the documents and reports of the National Audit Office relating to the operational capability of the defence, and the treatment in Stortinget will also need to be protected. Of course, the size and its control bodies have access to all information, both graduated and unupgraded, although not everything can be published. Many audits have been carried out in the Defence and several ongoing audits affect the operational capability of the Defence. In sum, this gives a comprehensive picture of the vulnerability of the defence, which may harm national security interests if it becomes known to unauthorised persons. The Defence Manager has also been very clear to me with his concern about this topic. In this case, the Riksrevision report points to vulnerabilities affecting the operational capabilities of fighter aircraft. It also points to the need to consider further measures. Sentences and sections may be up-to-date, but the compilation and evaluation in their entirety indicate that the documents have been graduated. So it's the sum of information that tells us that this study has to be graduated as limited. The US audit report refers to the ‘Bigingsrepresentative of Moxnes’, representing a revision of the status of the multinational logistics system to F-35, including Norway’s needs for support. This is not a report that is directly comparable to the Norwegian one. The report is public and refers to already known facts, which the partnership has undertaken to correct. For example, the partnership has contracted the acquisition of spare parts of more than 2 billion. dollars to compensate for the lack of spare parts. Acquisitions of this magnitude are public information. I would like to point out that the US defense consists of a number of complementary weapon systems, making it less vulnerable to weaknesses in a single system. The Norwegian defence has one combat aircraft, and there is therefore a greater need to protect information on vulnerabilities related to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1928	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1933	Of course, I am not going to refer anything from the case from which we are not going to refer, but it is a well-known case – and that is a public part of the case – that there was very strong criticism of the situation in the National Audit Office's report. Then we have also discussed this matter in closed staging. The Council of State now referred to the U.S. report. I could imagine asking the Council of State: does the Council of State see that we could have something to do with the public, the confidence – that no one should believe that things are kept hidden for political convenience – some more transparency about these kinds of questions, such as: the Danish National Auditorate practises against Folketinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1943	Yes, I have a great deal of understanding and I fully agree that we should have as much transparency as possible. And then we're going to extend transparency as far as it's safe for security reasons. But with the defense we have, with a lot of revisions, it's quite obvious that we can't completely clothe ourselves. So it's necessary to screen some of those reports, treat them in the Storing screen. Then it's about trust. I believe that by being open about why we do it, and what processes we have, we build confidence in the people that we have had a thorough review of these reports. Yes, the degree of criticism, the public, ranges from ‘critical’ to ‘serious’ and it has also been blacked out during the process of the Stortinget. I believe that this has been a good process, which also builds confidence in the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1950	I think it came out of both my post and my question that it is not about complete stripping or detachment. But here we are talking about total coverage. I have read in Danish audit reports about tanks, crews on tanks – yes, even the status of the Danish boats to the navy in relation to the Norwegians. So I repeat my question: does the Council see that we could have something to profit from having something greater than the 100 pst. coverage as was the case in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1957	When I say that we practise openness as far as we think it is sound for safety reasons, that is the assessment we are making. We have a lot of reports, and the connection of all that information will increase the vulnerability of the Defence and the vulnerability of the nation. Once we've made the choices we've made related to constraints here, there's thorough assessments behind it. We're taking the transparency debate seriously. We also take seriously the debate on it. But we have so far assessed these matters so that the limitation we have placed, we believe it must be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1964	Then I have to ask the question in a different way, because I assume that the Council of State also sees the reports of its colleagues in Denmark, a closely allied country: does the Council of State see that some areas that are not mentioned in transparency in Norway are mentioned in the Danish national audit reports? Does the Council of State see that difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1969	There may be differences in themes in the report of the Danish National Audit Office and in reports made by the Norwegian National Audit Office. But we've done our assessment of what's necessary. It is an assessment carried out in consultation with the head of defence, who is the professional military adviser to the Minister of Defence. We think we've put ourselves at a necessary level in that regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1974	It's a little absurd debate in one way, because what we can debate comes from the United States, from the country where the planes are produced, and from the findings of the U.S. National Audit Office, like, among others. reveals that in 30 pst. of the time it is not possible to use these extremely expensive fighter aircraft. It is because, according to the US National Audit Office, there is a lack of spare parts, the parts that are in the aircraft are too quickly broken, and in addition, the workshop capacity is too limited. So that's going to give you a pretty big downtime for these fighter planes. My question is whether the Council of States can guarantee that the Norwegian Government does not keep a secret something that the US National Auditorate has already published on these planes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1981	An audit is an ex post study. We have shown too many of the themes raised in the U.S. National Audit report that the fighter aircraft program has taken hold. They have previously identified the weaknesses and have taken action to correct those things. So this was a revision of our fighter aircraft program, our implementation of the F-35 in Norway, a thorough revision, where we also agreed in many areas with the Riks revision of what was revealed, and took action to build a better defense. So it might be that there's a point in the US National Audit that we've graduated from our report, but that's the whole of the collection of documents and in the number of revisions that the Riksaudition has done for the Norwegian defence, which makes it necessary for us to have the level of limitation that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1988	I guess we're talking about the same planes -- the ones produced by the same manufacturer, Lockheed Martin in the United States. The special thing is that this is the most expensive purchase ever in Norway, and that we base a lot of our defense in the future on this extremely expensive purchase. Then, in our view, the people have the right to have access to the shortcomings that have been revealed. We know that many of the support functions are common, that the parts and maintenance programme is also common. This is about giving the population the right idea of what defense we can expect when we have purchased these planes. That is the background for us to come up with our proposal. I assume that even those who are not going to know what is secret can read English, so with that in mind, I wonder why it could not be done as the Riksrevision asked: to get an upgraded version of the report that has now been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e1993	It is not the Riksrevision that determines whether this is sensitive information, which should be limited – it is the information page, which is the Ministry of Defence. I am very pleased that it was possible to rig a good process to get a debate around the Riksaudition report. I am very pleased that we in Stortinget can have a closed hearing, may have a closed debate, on the topic that, by opening it completely, can put us vulnerable nationally and safetyly. I believe that in this process we have shown that we take both the people's and the country's security seriously when we are able to take seriously the warnings that come from, among other things. The head of defense, and the overall picture we describe about how vulnerability can be. It's quite possible to find out that a nut was bad in an American report, but that's the whole of the audits we've done, which makes us put a lid on the case and say that for the sake of nation's security, it's best that this is dealt with as limited.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2000	The council said two slightly contradictory things. He said first of all that we have rigged a good process to get a debate on the report. There has been a certain debate on the Storting in secret meetings, but there has been no debate that has been informative to the public and to those who pay for it, namely the inhabitants and their taxes. In addition, it is quite correct – that is something that was very precisely said – to put a lid on this from the government. What I'm asking is, which I'd like to get a proper answer to -- and which was really the original question -- is whether that is how the government that information claims has kept a secret something that is public in the United States. If that's the case, it's a little weird to keep it a secret, because we're going to assume that those who don't want to get hold of the report can speak English and then read about it in the American version. So is it that there's information that's kept secret, that's published in the United States, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2007	I answered that. I said that there may well be fragments in the Norwegian National Audit Office's report that also hits what the US National Audit Office has looked at, but for the sake of national security, we have chosen to limit this information. It should not be unknown — nor for representatives from the Red — that we operate in Norway with secrecy, for the sake of national security. We operate with security classifications, and we operate with limitations on documents, and confidentiality. I would say that I am very pleased that we in Stortinget could have such a good process, which made it possible to have a thorough review of the Riksrevision report. Then Stortinget received the information they needed to process this report. An important report has been verified by the Control and Constitutional Committee. I fully agree with the representative that this is a large and expensive procurement project, and it is important that we follow it in the right bodies we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2021	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2040	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2047	Since the Committee does not agree on either the description of reality or the solutions, the comments on behalf of the Committee will be brief. The suggestions in this setting have been addressed up to several times by Stortinget in the past. As the heading of the proposers suggests, there are proposals for the reversal of changes in welfare schemes, some way back to 2011, when one of the proposers himself was in government. That is why I do not comment on all the issues, but first I want to correct an incurrency. Reference is made to the 2018 budget agreement on raising the roof of child supplements from 95 pst. until 99 p.m., it does not mean that it has been done for the current financial year. The Norwegian welfare society is at all times more than the sum of public benefits. It is the opportunity to learn through play in kindergarten, provide opportunities for everyone through a good public school, have a decent and inclusive working life, a good health care and, of course, a welfare policy that takes care of us when for various reasons we cannot do this ourselves. The value of the welfare state is not least now, when we are in the midst of a crisis that affects both life, health, our own and the common economy. But the dilemma of welfare policy is both to provide a social security network that keeps us down, but does not stick to us. When the Right is talking about a sustainable welfare state, it's about the welfare state's ability to carry those who need it in the periods they need it, also in the future. Then it's a little motivating that all debates, all changes, all system criticism are not only stamped as unsocial, but also attempted as if the critics think this is because of the individuals themselves. Of course, the last one is wrong. The first prevents a constructive debate on improving the complex system of well-intentioned benefits and arrangements we have in Norway. When the government of Solberg joined in 2013, the heirs of the Workers' Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left were longer health cows and 15 000 more poor children than when the three aforementioned parties joined. In 2013, there were also nearly 70000 recipients of redundancy benefits in the process of leaving the scheme because it did not function properly. So some of the first government Solberg had to do was extend the benefits while we tried to find answers to what was wrong, and what had to be done. When the scheme was evaluated, a work life researcher at the Frischsenteret, Simen Markussen, said: ‘AAP is a treadmill out of work, where it is accepted that you cannot work and where people are locked inside the outside closet’. Since then, several changes have been made to the scheme, such as tightening up what is needed to qualify and extending the possibility of trying to work without losing the right to benefit – both to target the scheme and not to lock people into poverty. After the changes, we've seen an increase of some more who are going to social assistance than before, as well as faster clarification of disability for those who are entitled to this, and more back in activity and work, but we haven't been close to sending 70,000 people into uncertainty, as it was in 2013. It is not unsocial to make the necessary changes to schemes that act as a treadmill out of work. On the contrary, it's unsocial to leave out. The same applies to changes in the default reform adopted in 2011 and implemented in 2015. We know that many people are out of work despite both their willingness to work and their ability to work. Therefore, benefits and arrangements must be designed in such a way that there are no economic barriers to participation. The changes have made it easier to combine work and social security, become fairer and have given a net higher social security for the majority. I think it's unsocial to reverse the changes. I understand that it may seem unreasonable when making changes to our many welfare benefits. Some welfare schemes may have been right to introduce when they arrived but no longer work as intended or are out of date. Since women did not have a high level of participation, it may have been right to have long transitional arrangements, so that those who have been cared for by the partner could change after a break. But by 2020, we need to be able to change and phase out such schemes, even if it seems unfair to those who receive them. With the Right in government, kindergartens and the SFO have become cheaper for those who need it the most. Several children can take part in leisure activities and child care is increasing. Until now, there has been a decline in health cows. The queues for help for people in rushes have been reduced, and perhaps the biggest social reform in recent times has been adopted, namely the drug reform. When society changes, it also needs to change the device of public welfare. And again, the sum of the Norwegian welfare community is greater than the sum of the social benefits, fortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2076	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a thorough review. Thanks also to the proposers. They address unfair welfare issues, which can easily drown in the covid-19 situation. That is why I commend SV for raising this matter now. In the last two months, the size has spent its time on exceptional measures, where the government has made proposals like the majority of the population, with the Labour Party in the front, has changed, in particular in view of a fairer distribution of the large funds allocated. In the period since the takeover of the Solberg government in 2013, we have experienced a continuous period of unfair cuts in welfare from one government budget to the other. One of the very first Erna Solberg did, as early as 2015, with hallelujarop from the Advance Party and the supporting parties Christian People's Party and Left, was to take the holiday money from the unemployed and tax termination benefits for people who lost the job. That's $2.50. kr in welfare benefits that went right into the pockets of the richest, who have been tax cut every year since the Solberg government joined. We see how the right-hand side of Norwegian policy consistently chooses sides – the rich over ordinary people. In the covid-19 situation, the size has adopted more favourable rules for daily allowances under leave. It was both right and fair, but what has not yet been a topic is that all those who have now received daily benefits under these more favourable rules of leave are still going to lose, not only in income, but also in holiday pay. They'll notice next year. It's not fair. The Labour Party voted in 2015 to take the holiday money from the unemployed, but it was voted down. The proposers in this case list a wide range of social benefits where the right-wing government has systematically cut the welfare of most people – cut social benefits for disabled people, including child supplements and liver adjustment, reduced purchasing power for pensioners, cut redundancy payments, cut social benefits for lone dependants, child glasses and car support schemes for disabled people. Many other cuts in welfare schemes could have been added, for example: the heartbreaking cut in additional social benefits for persons living in short-term living in Norway, such as: persons in the 80s, who had had such social benefits for 10 years or more, lost the benefit from one day to another. We've discussed the government's unfair cuts in welfare in the past. The right-wing government is on its side every time - the weakest pay for the richest. In the state budget for 2020, before Christmas 2019, the Labour Party showed to all the cut right-wing government and the supporting parties in the Stortinget have been in charge through seven state budgets. The government often uses the sustainability of the welfare state as an argument for its cuts. It's basically a great concept of qualities in Norwegian society. According to the purpose paragraph of the People's Redemption, it deals with, among other things: to provide financial security for unemployment, sole care for children, sickness and injury, disability and old age, help for self-help and balance income between groups. The sum of the seven budgets of the Solberg government is another. For them, the sustainability of the welfare state means that those with the lowest incomes should slow down backwards. The right side does not redistribute from those with high incomes to those with low incomes, but vice versa. As we pointed out in the Workers' Party's alternative budget: the sum of government's policies has made it harder for ordinary people to live their lives. The social differences are increasing. The Labour Party has its own proposal in this case. We ask the government to promote an overview to the United Kingdom of the consequences for living conditions and increased social differences of all welfare measures that the right-wing government has done since Erna Solberg took over as Prime Minister. We do not disagree with what is being promoted by the proposers, but the government's cut to the weakest has been going on uninhibited for seven years, along with the billion-dollar tax cuts to the richest. The Labour Party realises that, unfortunately, it will take more than one state budget to correct the unsocial cuts from the right government and the majority of the population at the Right and the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. In doing so, I take up the Labour Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2093	Then the representative Lise Christoffersen mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2098	We are currently considering a document 8 proposal from SV, which the rapporteur presented in a good manner. I would also like to thank the representative Nordby Lunde as the rapporteur and the rest of the Committee on the Work and Cooperation in the matter. Many of the themes addressed in the proposal have a long history. Some of the reforms that proposers will reverse have also contributed to the promotion and adoption of the party they represent. But I'm not going to dwell on it in this speech. A good thing in Norwegian policy is that it is not a tradition to reject all the reforms that previous governments have done, in the middle of a fiscal year. It is precisely to be able to have a sustainable and long-term perspective. That means that sometimes we allow reforms to work without taking a rematch every time there's an opportunity. That doesn't mean that all the things that are mentioned are peaceful forever. Let me make it clear that the Progress Party is ready to take a debate on welfare goods and the sustainability of welfare goods, but changing policies a few months after something has been adopted, in the middle of a budgetary year, we do not want to. However, the Progress Party has clarified a part of its primary policy in the comments in the case, and I am going to comment on some of them. For proposal No 1 would remind me that it was SV and the other parties that were behind the decision on malformation in 2011. The Progress Party then had a number of alternative proposals such as: would have ensured higher minimum jerseys for more. The red-green government provided a transitional arrangement in 2012, which the Progress Party Council expanded in 2015 to go beyond the previous government. As regards proposal No: 3, to provide protection against life expectancy adjustment, this was because it was thought that the pension reform would provide a significantly higher retirement age. So a shield was introduced for something that didn't happen. If it turns out that there is a need to shield new coal in the future, the Progress Party is open to discuss it on a later occasion, in case it should occur. When it comes to increasing purchasing power for retirement pensioners, the Progress Party supports doing so, and we also have our own proposal. However, the purchasing power of old-age pensioners is influenced by more than the regulatory model introduced by the Stortinget minus the Progress Party through the pension reform. We were opposed to the pension reform and therefore also to the underregulation, as the only party, and we are asking the government today to take action to help eliminate the impact of the annual underregulation. With this in addition to strong tax relief and reduced curtailment of the basic pension, there is no doubt that the Progress Party is the Pensioners' Party. We look forward to the evaluation of the pension reform, and we also ask for an evaluation to be presented to debate in the Grand Duchy as quickly as possible. In proposal No 7, on spectacle support, it's important to see that there are two arrangements. It is important for the Progress Party to point out that children who need glasses have glasses. We're busy with that. We are also pleased that the Council of State has clarified this on several occasions. With regard to the last proposal, which deals with housing support, it is not that fewer people receive housing support, which means that more households should not have housing support. I would also like to remind you that housing support has been extended to better meet large families with children, and that the amount is now regulated regularly. I will end in the extension of where I started. As a relatively new member of the Labour and Social Committee, I have respect for decisions taken on previous occasions. At the same time, we are ready to take up a debate on welfare benefits, the sustainability of the welfare state and how these can be better organised. We believe that many of the issues and points that have been raised are better suited to be raised in a government budget than in a Document 8 proposal. Many of the cases also have a time horizon that makes it unreasonable to change them without having them working. It does not mean that all the reforms and decisions that have been made are peaceful forever, but that in many of the cases it will be natural to raise it in a budgetary process, or look at it in a longer perspective. With that, I take up the proposal that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2123	The representative Gisle Meininger Saudland then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2128	The center party's leading star is Cohesion Norway, not Difference Norway – a well-organised working life as a prerequisite for a safe family life, i.e. security of income and work. The centre party stands out for people who live out of the way, whether it's geographical or it's social. Economic security for a decent life is central to us. I would like to thank SV for once again raising a debate on important social policy issues, and the Central Party has specific comments on all ten proposals from SV. The centre party agrees with the government parties that the welfare state must be a lot for those who need it the most, it cannot be all for everyone. That means that we have to give priority, as in life. Proposal No. 11 is to reverse the cut in the disability benefit. The centre party was behind the decisions which resulted in the conversion of disability pension to disability benefit under the red-green government. It is not correct as the Workers Party writes in the setting that no one should lose on the conversion. We've discussed that many times. Everybody couldn't get better, everyone knows that in this room. There have been a number of improvements and transitional arrangements to protect those who were most negatively affected in addition to a few thousand kroner – a modest amount. Proposal No. 9 is to reverse the cut in the children's supplement. The centre party is in complete agreement. We propose to cancel the roof of the sum of disability benefits and children's allowances corresponding to 99 pst. income before disability. We are sorry that the Christian People's Party has not come any further in this matter, because we are here in a situation where there are some people who have low incomes, who are disqualified and have many kids. It's a fact, and to live decently, the disability and child supplement will be over it a had of income at an earlier time. This is a justice case. Proposal No. 3 is about to shield against lifestyle adjustment. The centre party fully agrees that a screen must continue to be used against age adjustment, because the disabled have little opportunity to obtain income-bearing work in addition to disability. Proposal No. 13 refers to correcting last year’s purchasing power cuts for many old-age pensioners. We are opposed to looking back on the question of retirement pensions for old-age pensioners, but over many years, the Central Party has made proposals to regulate current pensions with the average wage and price growth – a priority requirement of the pension organisations. We've been in favour of prioritising the minimum pension, and that's an important distribution issue. The fourth SV proposal is the right to negotiate for the organisations involved in the social security scheme. For us, it's maritime, we've promoted it a number of times. The organisations involved in the social security scheme must be given the right to negotiate. Then there will be a negotiation result that is to be seen as a preparation for the Storting decision, which will then be presented in spring at the same time as we have the LO-NHO settlement, for example. Retirement is a political priority, and it must find its clarification here in the Chamber. Reversing redundancy payments is the fourteenth proposal. The centre party does not support it in general, while I want to take a strong distance from the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde saying that the work clearance system has been almost like a roller band out of work. It's an indebtedness that I have to say is strong to hear, when we know the situation of the many people who go on redundancy pay. For the centre party, it is important that the conditions of exemption for the extension of benefits in redundancy benefits beyond three years are changed, because they are too strict. The centre lot represents a reduction in the minimum benefits for redundancy benefits for recipients under 25 years of age. There was a reduction of NOK 66 000, so they now have only NOK 133 000 to live for. It's too modest a pension through the redundancy money. The Centre Party also proposes that a person retain the redundancy allowance until he/she is actually prepared for work or other benefits. That's a perfectly seaworthy point -- here, Nav has to tighten up. Proposal No. 15 is for the conversion of the transitional amount for lone dependants. The lot of the centre is against it, because the purpose is for the beneficiaries to be able to support themselves in their own work. There have been changes over time in the course of social development, and I have a strong understanding that there are changes understood by all parties in society. The central party agrees with the proposals. 7 and No 8 – to reverse the cut in the spectacle stand for children and to reverse the cut in the car support system for people who need a car in Group 1 we fully agree. We understand that it is important to follow up housing support through state budgets. I will address the proposals of the Centre Party as well as the proposals we have with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2156	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2161	Since the government change in 2013, Velferds-Noreg has been quite different. Many arrangements have been radically re-established or taken away, which in general plays a major role for very many individuals, often individuals who are at the lower end of the income scale. Making life harder for people who have it difficult before, never has our policy as an EN. In this area, however, many different views have been gathered in the Committee on the individual proposals – from the various representatives. Now, after seven years with the Right in the Prime Minister's post and the fourth variant of right-wing government, we in SV will give today's government constellation a chance to correct some of the cuts that have been carried out in recent years. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved, it does not seem that any of the cuts listed in this case have been their champions in government. On the other hand, it seems that the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right are equally opposed to this totally powerful slimming down of the welfare state, although it has not always been my impression when I have heard the Christian People's Party mentioned, for example. spectacle support for children. I had a little hope that it would now be possible to get some of the cuts listed in this case, for example. support for single caregivers or child supplementation for disabled persons. So it's a shame. I would also like to take the opportunity to say that welfare and public services to individuals are very good tools, perhaps the best we have, to prevent increasing differences, to maintain a good level of confidence in the population and to maintain a high level of education and participation in the labour market. Cut that we're talking about today is not just picks, it's important dollars for people who have little. It can be decided many times if they can afford a new winter dress to the pod instead of having to use a little too small a winter dress another season. It is important that we look at welfare issues in the context, what this has to say in the practical everyday life of people, and what life situations make it easier to participate in the working life of the individual, if possible. And here's one thing that I often get a sense of not being taken into account in the assessment of people's lives, and that's just how disease in the context of poverty reinforces each other and can often make the situation considerably worse than he needed to be. Finally, I would like to point out something that the representative from the Progress Party said on a couple of posts ago, that the Progress Party was the only party that opposed the pension reform when it was negotiated a few years ago, before SV went into government. That is not true, SV also voted against the pension reform, but we had to agree to it as a compromise when we entered the government, just as the Progress Party had to when they entered the government. I would like to comment on the suggestions SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2176	The representative Solfrid Lerbrück then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2182	Thank you to the President-in-Office, thank you for your good work in the Committee, and thank you to the Council of State, which has answered all ten questions in a clarifying way. Norway is and will be a welfare society, but our welfare society is more than just the state, although it is often the public it is focused on, as we see in this Document 8 proposal. The dilemma of welfare policy is to ensure a social security network that takes care of those who, for different reasons, are unable to participate in the labour market for a short or longer period of time, while at the same time depending on the fact that most people are actually involved in the labour market in order to ensure that this is precisely the security network. The Christian People's Party is united with the Center Party, which referred to the welfare state being a lot for those who need it the most, but he shouldn't be everything for everyone. This may be demanding for many, and in the Christian People's Party we have the greatest understanding of it, but we do not come from the fact that it is necessary to make priorities to get the most out of public resources. The representative proposal contains matters that have been dealt with in the past and that have come as a result of our making political priorities and adjustments over time. This has meant that someone has gotten less, while others have received more. Changes in welfare benefits are regulated by the government budget, and the government has a continuous overview of how changes turn out both those who increase and those who are being reduced. I'm overconfident that the government will also this year do a thorough job with this towards the budget for 2021. So I don't go into things here, as they were numbered, but the Christian People's Party is going to vote for the plural proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2193	Perhaps especially in these days we see very well illustrated how important work is. Working and having a job is the best way to tackle exclusion and long-term poverty. For this reason, there has been a long tradition of labour and social policy in Norway — not without disagreement or discussion, of course — that the benefits of public welfare and our entire welfare system should be designed to stimulate employment. In other words, they're going to help people who need it for a period of time or longer, and at the same time stimulate work. Therefore, it is important to include more in the labour market. At that time, we need measures both to equip people on the school, competence and education sides; we need, of course, measures to make it attractive to start and create new jobs – not least after the Korona crisis – but we also need measures to make it as profitable as possible to work. Otherwise, there's a job selection that's partly made some input, but that's working on these things. It is also important that beneficiaries of benefits do not go passive or go beyond what is necessary for schemes to be temporary. At the same time, those who cannot participate fully or partly in the labour market must be guaranteed sound income. I will not go into every proposal either, because I have done so in my letter of reply to the committee, but I can mention that the minimum pensions have increased in several rounds, and that the one-time benefit – a sin of omission I must admit that the Right in Government is long enough, until the Christian People's Party came in – has increased by adoption and birth. We have had a clear and holistic priority for vulnerable young people. There are funds allocated to, for example: a broad youth effort in Nav. Child welfare has increased for the first time in 20 years. With effect from 1 September 2020, further increases in the level of child protection. Some of the proposals relate to changes we have made in various instruments. Aid grants are intended to compensate for additional costs incurred by disabled persons compared to others. Sometimes there are good examples of changes that should be made, so that someone should perhaps get more help, but here too we have to give priority. The changes implemented are essentially to adapt the level of support to the actual additional costs for users. Several have commented that the malpractice reform was introduced in 2015, but the proposal came from the Stoltenberg II government. I remember. I myself sat on the Stortinget then, on the Labour and Social Committee, and was involved in negotiations with the Stoltenberg government about it. The reform was not introduced to save money. On the contrary, it was estimated to be slightly more expensive compared to the previous disability pension scheme. The aim was both to adapt disability benefits to the pension reform and to make it easier to combine work and disability benefits. We have followed the effects of the unbridled reform and have also taken several measures where adjustments have been needed. Among other things, the introduction of a transitional tax-deductible scheme for the disabled who, following the reform, received a reduction in income as a result of a lower tax base on deductions, and the shift from gross to net, the change in housing aid resulting from an increase in gross income following the reform. A permanent compensation scheme was put in place. I could say something about several of these proposals, but it's not time. As the members of the Committee from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party point out, it will reverse, among other things. This reform could also lead to a reduction in social security for many. Otherwise, it is – of course, that’s what it is like when the opposition promotes Document 8 proposals – strikingly, here one wants to draw attention only around the cuts, because it has been cut, and there have been changes, but all the increases, from child welfare, professionalism and moderation systems in kindergartens to one-off support for minimum pensioners, are not wanted to say anything about it. The Labour Party even asks the government to come back with a list of only one part of its policy. That list has been dealt with every year by the Stortinget through the annual government budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2212	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2217	As the council said, we could talk about a lot of benefits. I want to record the thread again from my post instead. We spend money that never before in these corona times, and it's been right. But a cross of thought is how much we spend on businesses versus what we spend on employees. In part, there are two sides to the same thing – I see that – but not quite. It's getting closer to vacation time. What has the Council of State done to ensure that enterprises supported by the compensation scheme to cover the necessary expenditure actually provide the necessary means to pay holiday pay to their employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2224	Holiday money is required by law – that's the first. It is a claim that each employee has on his company. In other words, it is only possible to underline clearly: it is not optional for the company to pay the holiday money, nor is it optional for the company to make the account visible that money has been spent on it. In an extremely extreme situation that has now emerged in the media – I guess that’s what the representative refers to – that in a NHO survey there were 10-11 p.m., without we know anything more about it, which says they are unsure whether they could pay holiday money. There is a letter from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to the parties about this today. But that is how we have arrangements today for the employee to be able to claim his holiday money, because it is a claim, it is something the company owes them. In the worst case, if the company is unable to pay its own costs after receiving support schemes, the company will not be able to continue to exist, i.e. go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2231	I thank you for your answer, and it is good that the Council of State will take this up with the parties. One might have put a little more of the money that is now being paid through the compensation scheme, but it is possible that this is because the Right really is not very busy with holiday money for the unemployed. Because, as I said, in 2015, the right-wing government took the holiday money from the unemployed. This means that it's a joke for all or part of the holiday money to the next year for those who have been or have been on leave this year because of the Korona. I wonder if the Council of State has any plans to ensure that this injustice is corrected in the long-term plan to return to our economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2236	There are two completely different questions. One question is which holiday pay schemes you have for those who are unemployed. A very different question is — which was the first question — what holiday pay schemes are available to those employed in an enterprise in Norway. Those employed in an establishment are entitled to holiday pay. There is no government – at least not this one – that has tried to do something about it. We have no plans to propose any changes to the holiday pay code for the unemployed or those on the daily allowance. That change was made in 2015, and we stand for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2243	I thank you for a clarification. Yes, there were two completely different questions. That's why it was formulated as question 1 and question 2, and now I come up with question 3: Then I conclude with – but I ask for security – that the Council of State actually agrees with its predecessor, Robert Eriksson of the Progress Party, that it is both right and fair that unemployed people should not be entitled to holiday money in the same way as working people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2250	Robert Eriksson has said a lot. He gets to say it his way, and I get to say it my way and with my words, and that's that this change was implemented in 2015. Of course, if the Workers' Party goes to the elections to guarantee that we will reintroduce this, it is quite fair and fair. They will have to guarantee that in the election. It would have been interesting to hear if they would do it. But there are no plans from the government to go back to what was the change in 2015. And then the state council gets to describe it in its own way. Thanks for the neat presentation of the questions!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2257	The case rapporteur, Heidi Nordby Lunde, commented on redundancy payments, or the AAP scheme, as a treadmill out of work. It's pretty disrespectful, I must say. But first of all, there is criticism of the state hub. The work-clearance system applies to sick people, it affects more than 100000 people, and it is important for people to be able to work or to be entitled to other benefits. The Council of State said it is important that one does not go too long on Nav schemes, and I fully agree with that. Work clearance money is a system where it is too late and too poorly clarified for many people who get a more difficult life situation in the relationship with Nav. My question is: does the Council agree that Nav's work on redundancy payments is too poor, and what is done to follow up, for example. the quality increase that was promised when you went from four to three years in the period of redundancy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2268	First, it's important to say that right now there's an exceptional situation also in Nav. This means that those who are on redundancy pay now have their social benefits extended, precisely because Nav, right now, does not have the capacity to follow up the way they should. The government has strengthened Nav’s budgets for the follow-up of this group in concrete terms – 119 million. NOK, if I do not remember correctly. And again I would like to choose my own words, and then I might not say ‘too bad’, but because the follow-up had to be better. We're going to follow up Nav's follow-up, to say it that way. It's a clear expectation that when Nav gets more resources, and Nav is also very busy with this himself, the follow-up will be tighter and better. Several major changes have been made to the work-clearance system. Moreover, it is not that everyone on redundancy pay – although many have health problems – is automatically so ill that they should have disability benefits, but we will follow the way those changes work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2279	As a follow-up to the previous replicator, my impression is that it is still not quite clear in Nav that the prolongation of the redundancy money applies to everyone. My call to the Council of State is that he simply has to give a very clear marshaller, because there's still something squeaking that shouldn't be there if you look at the written response from the Council of State to me a few weeks ago. So to my question. In the revised national budget, which came today, we see that spectacle support for children will now cost even less than previously estimated when the change in the scheme was introduced. Can the Council of State today stand here and guarantee what was promised: that no child is given poorer quality of the correction of vision than what is necessary and at the time recommended?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2286	I can stand here and say what the previous Council of State said, and which was clear and clear also in the State budget: there is now a new calculation of costs – otherwise it is not unusual, that is one of the reasons why we have a revised budget. We now have a clearer, more focused, more cost-control system. That is important, because, as many have said, we need to give priority to the community's money, especially in terms of the labour and social budget, where we need to give priority to those who need it the most. At the same time, we have also cleaned up the arrangements to make them more comprehensible and more clearly related to medical diagnosis. However, there is no change in this compared to what was previously presented — or the guidelines have come, but there is no change in the picture presented in the budget adopted last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2291	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2298	This is one of the first things I've had the pleasure of being in the committee and dealing with quite a lot. I must first say that I am impressed above the level. I think it's really nice to be with so good people. It's not always you in the municipalities where I run politics. I also think these ten proposals in the representative proposal are very interesting, and I thought it was very nice. I want to commend the Council of State for the letter of reply, which is extremely informative, and I experience being up-to-date on what is actually going on. I'm not going to read out the points that the Council of State itself went through, about the benefits that have actually been introduced and improved in recent years, but I want to say something about the AAP, and then I want to say something about the housing support scheme. We all live in a municipality. We live our lives in the municipalities around the country, and when it comes to the AAP system, we probably all know someone within that system. I think that what has been the most important thing about reducing from four to three years has been presented as a poorer version of the AAP scheme, but that is rather the opposite. It is such that, for those who need job redundancy, Nav should work faster and better and structured so that they actually get to work, education or other benefits afterwards, or go over and be granted their disability benefit. It's very important to keep your tongue straight in your mouth, because this isn't a lasting achievement, it's simply a clarification of what's best for the whole community and for the individual. So for housing support, it's changed in the last few years. They've got a device that makes it catch up and meet the big families of children more than before, as you could get a living support if you were tired, young unemployed, and so on. I remember back to the beginning of the 2000s, when the municipalities went in and calculated the rents on rentals, because what they increased the rents, was covered by the housing support. It's not like that anymore. It is important to say in the case of those renting housing, that municipalities may have a major lack of housing social plans, but there are subsidy schemes, there are house banking schemes, and there are loan schemes that the municipality takes on behalf of people who cannot raise money themselves. The municipality may also have a municipal housing support scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2309	This case is about the people who have been in permanent crisis for a long time, and most of them are ill in addition and have financial problems. And now, when we see that many people are in crisis, the great crowd sees that the rules that we have do not reach them, but they certainly reach out to those who have been in permanent crisis. I am amazed at the representatives who come up here and say that the welfare state cannot be all for everyone. No, now we're talking about the most disadvantaged, the sick, those who've been cut in the AAP. What is the reality now – do people get faster health care now in the coronary crisis than they did before? These are people who haven't got health clearance before they get thrown out of the AAP. Is it getting better when they're thrown out and get quarantined for a whole year without income? Of course they get poorer, they get sicker, they get more outnumbered. Is there anyone in this room who thinks that the labour market is now such that these are people who get a job now? Should we then perhaps secure them income in this time that is so difficult, where many spread people without health problems and with long-term education are in line? No, not even then will the government be involved in this. You probably hear that I'm pretty angry, and I'm at this. For the government doesn't hesitate to spend billions on the richest, the inheritors of millions, the ones who have hard fortunes. Then it's just a trick, and the money's there. But if you're sick, then you have to look with light and light for something to tighten on, because you think – probably – that it motivates people somehow. And I can tell you that I've been working on this for years. This destroys people's lives, and it's completely unnecessary. What should we do? Yes, we have to follow people up better. And is it that Nav now follows people up better with what can actually get people to work, namely qualification? Unfortunately, the answer is no. The National Audit Office has produced a large report that shows that we are throwing billions of dollars at measures that do not work. I had hoped that the government had shown a little more interest in it and made sure that more people could take up skills, longer training to get on their feet and get to work, because I know that social work benefits, qualification benefits. But now everything is going to take so short a time, so short a time that it doesn't work. We actually have to qualify people much better than what we do today, and we have to give them the health follow-up they need. Then we can expect more people to come to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2318	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2336	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2343	I would like to begin by thanking the proposers for the matter and the Committee for good cooperation. From the outset, there has been a broad majority in favour of a system of a Nav Ombudsman, but slightly different opinions about what an ombudsman implies, and what kind of device it should have. It is not so strange, as there is no clear definition of what an agent is, and the hearings confirmed the case in this context. I will therefore try to explain what the majority, consisting of the government parties and the Progress Party, has stressed in this matter. It is important for trust in welfare systems to ensure legal certainty for users and the ability to complain about decisions and services. There are already statutory legal security arrangements in the management of Nav, and for us it has been important to ensure that a system of a Nav Ombudsman becomes a real strengthening of the legal security of the user and not just another body to be dealt with, which further complicates the situation of the user and is perceived as a new bottleneck. It is also important to point out that the establishment of a Nav ombudsman cannot and should not be the solution to all Nav challenges. For example, several Hearing Officers have found that Nav’s guidance obligation is not being complied with and that there is a significant need to improve it. It is important that these signals are taken seriously in Nav and that today's legislation, which already provides good guidance from the administration and several complaints, is respected. It has therefore been important for us to point out that it is not intended that a Nav Ombudsman should assume the obligation to provide guidance or other obligations under the Administration Act that is the responsibility of Nav and Social Security. It could have acted quickly against its purpose and undermined existing rights and seemed more bureaucratic. It is important that the Ombudsman becomes an unbureaucratic and user-friendly system and that it acts as a legal security guarantee that checks that users receive the right service at the right time. We have therefore concluded that an ombudsman can best function as a system under the Ombudsman of the Administration of Storting, the Ombudsman of Civil Liberties. The Ombudsman already deals with a number of issues from the labour and welfare management and has good systems of contact with Nav users and people who need guidance in complaint. The civil ombudsman's assessments are also of high professional quality and are considered to be objective and impartial. In addition, the Ombudsman enjoys authority in administration and high respect for the population. By bringing together the Ombudsman functions of Nav with the Civil Ombudsman, responsibility for monitoring and follow-up is also avoided between different representatives, oversight and arrangements. It is also important to point out that a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the Ombudsman with this device is the provision of sufficient competence and capacity to carry out a real check. With that, I address our proposals in the matter, but I would like to clarify that in proposal No. 1 the reference is replaced by the following: ‘The size calls on the Presidency to change the mandate of the sample investigating the control functions of the Grand Duchy so that the sample assesses and makes proposals for the establishment of a Nav Ombudsman in line with the comments of the Grand majority of the Innst. [[Harberg Committee]] 254 S for 2019-2020.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2363	The representative Kristian Toning Riise has taken up the proposals he referred to, also now the amended proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2368	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, and thank you to the rapporteurs. The question of a Nav ombudsman is an important matter, especially in the light of the Nav scandal, which the government itself has chosen to call it. On 5 March of this year, the Stortinget examined the matter from the Control and Constitutional Committee on the presentation by the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs of 5 November 2019 in the Stortinget on the mispractice of the EU Social Security Regulation. The Council of State itself said in that debate that several questions should have been raised earlier. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs was not satisfied. The error had been going on for many years. The council further said that Nav should have caught up with the error earlier, but no one thus picked up the error before the Social Security Court started looking at this in 2017. And yet the wrong practice continued for years. People got an unfair refund decision against themselves. People were reported and convicted for something they should not have been reported and convicted for. As others discussed on March 5, an important feature of Norwegian society is a high level of trust between population and government. This trust has not come about by itself, but has been built on stone by political decisions in the development of the rule of law and the Norwegian welfare community for more than 100 years. That trust is our responsibility as elected representatives to take care of. It's just that rug that makes the Nav scandal so serious. It is now absolutely necessary that we manage to re-enter the trust of Nav. The Labour Party therefore supports the creation of a Nav Ombudsman, but we do not think it alone is enough. It must be stronger than that, but it can be one of several contributions in the right direction. It is not the first time the Stortinget is dealing with the matter of establishing a Nav Ombudsman. There have been several suggestions from several batches on both sides of the distinction between today's position and opposition. But what has been a constant move to now has been that the proposals have been promoted from the opposition and voted down by the position. This was also the case when Stortinget dealt with the matter in connection with the SV’s proposal for a representative in December 2014. Then there was also a proposal from the Workers' Party to ask the government to assess the establishment of a Nav ombudsman as soon as possible, voted down, among others. by the Progress Party, which is behind the proposal we are debating today. All the parties to the Committee will now have an agent. That's good. But at the same time, we have a slightly different view of how an agent should be organised and operated. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have decided. They want the order added to the Civil Ombudsman. The Workers' Party is sceptical because, as the Council also points out in its letter to the Committee, a large proportion of the Civil Ombudsman's portfolio is concerned with matters relating to precisely labour and welfare management. So we think it's easy to get a mix of functions. We also believe that there are good arguments to claim that one central body can easily become less accessible to people who have issues going on in Nav and who already experience that it is difficult to reach. So we want a thorough assessment of what's the best way to do this. We're rather in the direction of state-owned agents, maybe even more in some of the largest states, both in the population and in the area. For some of the points of an agent, it must be that it is available to those who need assistance from there. SV wants to organise according to the model of the Patient and User Ombudsman, and the Workers' Party sees that there may be good reasons for this. The center part keeps this a little bit more open, just like we do. Finally, it must be allowed to note that the matter appears a bit strange. The majority – I then assume that the Left in this case is in agreement with the Progress Party and the other government parties – despite the fact that the Council of State says he will investigate the matter, as stated in the Granavolden Declaration, has actually taken the matter out of the government's hands and added it to the Stortinget. What also seems a little strange, is that the Progress Party did not take the opportunity to get a case on the Nav Ombudsman while they were still in government, but then promote proposals in the Stortinget only two weeks after they chose to leave the government. It seems that there has been some kind of towing either internally in the government or between the government and the government parties in the Storting in this matter. Now we no longer have a majority government, and that's maybe what saves the case and makes us get a majority of representatives this time? I refer to the proposal that the Workers' Party has promoted in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2387	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2392	First of all, I would like to thank both the rapporteur and the other parties in the Committee on the Verification of Credentials and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. It is eleven years since the Progress Party first proposed the creation of a Nav ombudsman. Many other proposals by the Progress Party have also been criticised before they were adopted, but then it ends up that most are finally in favour of the proposals anyway. The creation of a Nav ombudsman is a matter that everyone has become after the Progress Party has proposed it. The existence of control mechanisms in society and the ability of some to speak on behalf of users are an important principle. Just as we have an senior agent or a patient and user agent, it is important that we have an agent for those who meet faceless machine bureaucracy. The Nav scandal last year showed that the system is not perfect. Although for all those who were unjustly convicted, there is a lean comfort in having an agent now to secure the rights of users, we will be better equipped to ensure that such things do not happen in the future. I believe that a Nav agent, who is going to go after the bureaucracy in the seas, who speaks the case of the users and guarantees them the rights they have, is over-mature in order to be adopted. As has been pointed out earlier, the case has been at the hearing, and so to speak, all the hearing bodies gave a positive opinion on the setting up of the Ombudsman – there were different opinions on how it should be established, correct. It was also found that there is a great need and a great desire in the population for an agent who can speak their case, and relevant stakeholder organisations actively go out and support the creation of the Ombudsman. It's positive, and it strengthens my belief that it's right to set up a Nav agent. The Ombudsman is intended to be an unbureaucratic and user-friendly representative. A very large organisation shall not be set up and shall not take over Nav's proceedings. Nor shall it take over cases on behalf of the Social Security Court. I believe it is important for the Ombudsman to be responsible for both the municipal and state parts of Nav. That's because it's not going to be broken up and divided. It is important that a Nav ombudsman is an agent for everyone on Nav, and that there is no distinction between who pays for the welfare goods. For the users of Nav, it is also irrelevant; they only want the service they require. The Ombudsman would obviously be independent and impartial. That means that it is not the organisation you complain about, which is also the one you complain to. Users can therefore be sure that they are met by someone who does not have a pre-intentional and possibly a negative approach, and that their case is handled correctly. On that basis and as described in the comments in the case, we, the Progress Party, in cooperation with the Government Parties, believe that a Nav Ombudsman is best placed to establish himself as a system under the Ombudsman of the Administration of the Storting, the Civil Ombudsman. I am glad that on Stortinget there is a willingness to set up a Nav Ombudsman, although I see that several parties will investigate and in that way also postpone the matter. My ambition is that the Ombudsman be created next year, and that the government will check out any legal issues as soon as possible. I assume that the government will work quickly on this matter and set up the Ombudsman as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to thank both the government parties and the other parties in the Chamber for their attendance and cooperation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2421	I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council, Toning Riise, for a good job done. It is an important thing, but it is a very lightly formulated proposal from the Progress Party – I am so rude that I have to say it. It's important to investigate this, and what the Center Party says in the setting, is a strong argument for an agent in a field that very, very many people are very dissatisfied with. I can almost not strongly stress the great weaknesses of Nav today, by the fact that those who really need it the most are being treated as badly as we experience. It's some of the main background of the demand for a Nav agent, which I understand very well. The centre party would stress that if a Nav Ombudsman is to be established, such Nav Ombudsman shall not alter or replace the statutory legal security arrangements or the responsibilities of the Civil Ombudsman. It's important to us. The Nav Ombudsman may also not be responsible for having an opinion on Nav's organisation, budget or the different legislation administered by the State or Municipal Council of Nav. Therefore, a Nav ombudsman must be as a trustee for the individual Nav user who has experienced, or is experiencing, that he/she does not receive the assistance or treatment that he/she considers to be right or necessary. Such a Nav ombudsman will thus affect those responsible in Nav, and this concerns both the quality of the individual case and changes that can improve the conditions of the many. As I mentioned, the proposal of the Progress Party is very superficial – I would say rarely superficial. There is no premise, description of the mandate or delimitation of the Ombudsman, and therefore this case is no basis for taking a decision other than a request to the government to investigate a Nav Ombudsman. It is, in fact, also unanimous from the Committee, but in a slightly different way. The Central Party believes that an investigation of a Nav Ombudsman should consider how a Nav Ombudsman is organised, and we then look towards the patient and user representatives, and whether the Ombudsman will then be built up to deal with many individual requests, while helping to improve the quality of Nav's organisational work. The investigation should therefore include different models, including the cost of organising a Nav ombudsman, as well as the location around the country. From the centre party, I would say that having a Nav agent located with the Civil Ombudsman will be a system that is far too centralised when we know those people who are really in trouble with Nav. They must have a completely different approach from that of the Civil Ombudsman. The centre party therefore supports proposals for an investigation that addresses the issues I have now mentioned. I would also like to say that it is important that one in Nav now frees resources for better guidance and follow-up of the individual. That's what we've been talking about the whole time I've been on the Labour and Social Committee. Resources were to be released to improve the quality, better meeting of advisers and those who are struggling. It doesn't seem to be getting any better, rather on the contrary. That is why it is important that what a unanimous committee has now said in connection with the Inst. 197 S for 2019-2020 and Prop. 52 S for 2019-2020, which we have recently addressed, namely that the local Nav offices, whether municipal or urban, must now be given authority to make decisions related to temporary benefits. There is a point that the Council of State has now been told to follow up, and I expect the Council of State here to give the necessary messages to Nav, giving the necessary resources to the first line, which would naturally have to go at the expense of the special departments – the special departments that were not part of the intended solution of the whole Nav reform, namely, ‘one door door’. I'm promoting the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2444	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2449	I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for a good draft representative. Nav-ombod is something we in SV have long seen need. We have repeatedly suggested creating Nav's environment, including in budgetary contexts. I have to say it's worth noting that the government is now in favour of this, and that it only happens when they see that the opposition actually has multiples on the Storting. We still have to wait and see what the government will do after the Harberg selection has made its assessments, but all in all, it's the most important thing that we get ahead in this matter. In the comments on this case, it appears that there is a certain difference between the parties in how one looks like a Nav orbit organized. SV's primary position here is that the ban should be established according to the same model as the patient and user environment. That being said, in any case, an order will have its role, and in order to be able to keep it as good as possible, it must be an independent order. Nav is a great and important actor in many people's lives. Some of those to be Nav have relatively great challenges, and then it can be challenging for both individuals and those to be added to Nav to stick to a very rigid and heavy-rooted system. In recent years, we have seen many major challenges in the Nav system, both the very big case of the EEA that led to people being misjudged and imprisoned, the new conflict-filled rules around the system of redundancy payments, but also many individual issues where there has been a large level of conflict, and where, in my opinion, there has been a David against Goliath's tendency in the case of individuals. It's background in all of these cases we've been fighting for a long time to get a Nav orbit. On the other hand, a Nav orbit will not be able to lead to a perfectly functioning Nav. I think there's got to be other things there. A Nav ombudsman will have to stick to the rules and policies that are always in force, and there will be limits to the criticism of the current policy. For a better-functioning hub on a general basis, I think that many more case handlers need to be able to have more resources to help individuals who have major challenges or who are far from the labour market, and there must be greater scope for decisions taken in the first line. I take up the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2467	The representative of Solfrid Lerbreck has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2472	Thank you to the case spokesperson, thank you to the committee and thank you to all those who took part in the hearing. She was very enlightening. As the case shows, we in the committee are essentially talking about a Nav orbit. We don't agree on the arrangements for the bypass function and where he's going to be located. It was found in the hearing that meeting with labour and welfare management can be very demanding and experienced by many, when it comes to both legal terminology and language, which can be difficult to experience. It is therefore of great importance that guidance and communication are provided in a good and understandable way. Errors in handling files may have major consequences for the being framed. Although targeted efforts are already being made to improve routines and procedures, a rerouting system for this area can both take care of users and contribute to the necessary improvements. The Christian People's Party therefore believes it is good that a system of Nav-ombod should be put in place. It is important that there is a real strengthening of the legal certainty of the user and not an additional bureaucratic system that is perceived as a new bottleneck. It is therefore necessary to emphasise in the design of the system the way in which the ombudsman function is to operate in conjunction with existing ombudsman, supervisory and review systems and the legislation on which it is based. Today's law already provides a good guide from the administration's side and several complaints. The challenge is, therefore, to enforce the rights of users in a good and qualified way. It is therefore important that attention be paid to the need for the Nav environment to be unbureaucratic, user-friendly, professionally independent and impartial. The offer should be a guarantee of legal certainty and ensure that users are provided with the correct services in due time. The Nav ombudsman shall not take over the action or appeal proceedings on behalf of Nav or the Social Security Court, nor shall he assume the obligation to provide guidance or any other duties under the Administration Act which rests on the Nav and Social Security Court. The mandate must be able to deal with matters of both Nav and Social Security law, to express opinions on the decisions of these management bodies and to have at the same time sufficient competence and capacity to carry out effective control of labour and welfare management. A natural consequence of this is that the Nav environment will best function as an order under the care of the caretaker of the Stortinge, that is, the Civilombodsmann, and we in the Christian People's Party are looking forward to the order being set in motion. At the end of the day, I thank the Party of Advancement, who has done the right thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2489	In line with the announced agenda, there will now be a pause in the debate on voting. It wouldn't be so good to have the post to the Council of State before the vote and then opened for lines that would come, after the vote. So we do it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2512	After it had been called to vote, said
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2515	Then Stortinget goes to voting on case no. 1 to 5 and Case No 11–15 on today’s map. Before Stortinget goes back to the debate on case No. 7, the President will also deal with case No. 16, Unit. The majority vote first on case No. 11–15, which was first treated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2528	The cases are the second time the law and the liability are dealt with by law decisions 86 to 90. There is no comment suggestion. The law of the Grand Duchy is therefore adopted at second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. Case No. 1 was a statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2544	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on important EU and EEA matters be included in the meeting book.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2561	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by Marianne Marthinsen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to put in place a labelling system for goods, so that goods coming from areas occupied by Israel must be marked with an area of origin on the basis of the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union on such labelling.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to clarify responsibility for the labelling of goods originating in areas occupied by Israel before they reach Norwegian consumers.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for out-of-court control mechanisms and any sanctions against responsible actors that violate new provisions on labelling of goods originating in areas occupied by Israel.’ These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2625	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2 and 3, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red Proposal No. 2 during the debate has been changed and sounds now: ‘The majority asks the Presidency to change the mandate of the sample examining the control functions of the Grand Duchy so that the sample assesses and makes proposals to allow public transparency and debate on the Riksaudition surveys.’ [[Harberg Committee]] Proposal No. 3 has also been changed and sounds now: ‘The majority asks the Presidency to change the mandate of the selection examining the control functions of the Grand Duchy [[Harberg Committee]] Proposal No. Two and three. The President understands it so that everyone will vote for these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2661	Alternatively, between the recommendation and proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government, in consultation with the National Audit Office, is asked to ensure that a report is published on the National Audit Office’s investigation into infrastructure and supporting functions for the operational capability of combat aircraft, where as much information is made public as is appropriate.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2783	The President proposes that the minutes 331 and 332 be sent to the Municipal and Administrative Committee. Mr Andersen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2790	This applies to 331 and 332. In the case of 331, part of the crisis packages is currently being dealt with by the Financial Committee. It's about local economy. It belongs naturally to the Financial Committee and should be dealt with there. It is the Financial Committee which now has the power to negotiate agreement between the Parties on the crisis packages. In the case of 332, we asked at the start of the meeting today, when that proposal was made – it is about the demolition of the Y-block – that it be dealt with in accordance with § 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. it is disclosed to the public and dealt with directly in the Stortinget within 48 hours. It's because it's urgent. Therefore, we propose that these are the treatment methods that will be most appropriate for these two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2799	The size will then be the first to be voted on when the treatment is applicable Document 8:103 S for 2019–2020. The President has proposed that it be sent to the Municipal and Administrative Committee, while the representative Karin Andersen has proposed that it be sent to the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2813	We then go to voting on the procedure when it applies to Document 8:106 S for 2019–2020. The President has proposed that it be sent to the Municipal and Administrative Committee, while the representative Karin Andersen has proposed that it be dealt with under § 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2827	Further referenced: 20. National Audit Office's annual report for 2019 (Document 2 [[333]] [[2019-2020]] Samr. : Be sent to the Control and Constitutional Committee. 21st Last@item: inlistbox Amendments to the Services Act and consent to the approval of Decision No EEA Committee 311/2019 of 13 December 2019 concerning the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Regulation [[334]] [[geoblocking]] [[2019-2020]] Samr. : Be sent to the Foreign Affairs Committee, except B, which is sent to the Business Committee, which shall submit its draft recommendation to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee for consideration before the recommendation is made. 22nd@item: inlistbox Changes in the State Budget 2020 under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food [[335]] [[2019-2020]] 23rd Last@item: inlistbox Temporary law on exemptions from physical meeting requirements, etc. [[336]] in corporate law to address the consequences of covid-19 outbreaks (Prop. [[2019-2020]] 115 L Samr. : No. 22 and 23 will be sent to the Business Committee. 24th@item: inlistbox Amendments to the Railway Act etc. [[337]] [[fourth railway package]] and consent to the participation in two decisions of the EEA Committee on inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive 2012/34/EU on a single European railway area and the acts constituting the fourth railway package (Prop. 101 LS [[2019-2020]] Samr. : Be sent to the Committee on Transport and Communications, except B, which is sent to the Committee on Transport and Communications, which shall submit its draft recommendation to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to the Committee before the recommendation is made. 25-digit number Amendments to the Act amending the Transport Code [[338]] [[2019-2020]] 26. Temporary law on ferry tickets due to an outbreak of covid-19 (Prop. [[339]] [[2019-2020]] 114 L Samr. : No. 25 and 26 will be sent to the Transport and Communications Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2877	We go back to the debate on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2882	As others have pointed out, this is a discussion that has been going on for several years. In particular, the discussion continues, for everyone seems to agree that it may be a good idea to have a Nav agent and to investigate a Nav agent, it also says in the government platform. But then there's been a discussion about how, and in what way. Let me just say first of all that the fact that we have legal certainty and the possibility to complain about both decisions and services is very important for the trust in our welfare systems. The background to the proposal for a Nav ombudsman is the desire to strengthen the legal certainty of users and, at the same time, contribute to more user-friendly management and provide an enhanced opportunity to point out failures or deficiencies in the system. In the EEA case, the issue has naturally been up-to-date, as there have been timely questions about how users' interests and legal certainty are safeguarded within current systems and mechanisms. As an overall committee points out, there is a clear majority of those heard in this case who support the proposal for a separate Nav Ombudsman. However, as I said, it is worth noting that there are a lot of different opinions about what a Nav ombudsman should be like, how it should be organised, and what kind of mandate it should have. What is important to say is that there is a broad consensus that a Nav ombudsman should not be a substitute for the statutory legal security systems of the labour and welfare management. Users shall continue to use the formal complaints in the first place. With regard to State benefits and services, there is a right of appeal before the Nav Board of Appeal, with appeal before the Social Security Court. Complaints about social services decisions shall continue to be treated independently by the State. In addition, it is possible to bring the case before the Court after the said appeals and appeals have been exhausted. It should also be possible for users to use the service complaint mechanism established in Nav, where users can make complaints about the service they have received, and where the administration deals with and responds to complaints about the service received. The legal certainty of users is primarily ensured by effective and well-functioning management. Then we also have, as an independent supervisory body outside the administration, the Civil Ombudsman. They receive complaints from those who believe they are subject to injustice or maladministration, and they deal with complaints concerning both state, county and municipal administration. Of the total number of issues, issues related to labour and welfare management are a significant proportion. Then I have to hurry to add that it does not automatically mean that the Civil Ombudsman has a high proportion of complaints that they deal with and agree with, but that means that the Civil Ombudsman has an important role as a welfare representative already. The majority in the UK has then decided to investigate how the Ombudsman can strengthen his/her role, competence and capacity as representative of the users of the labour and welfare management. It might be wise to do, but historically it's a little bit special as a decision, because normally it's the government that's taking the investigation. But precisely because the Civil Ombudsman is another type of institution outside the administration, Stortinget has chosen a different solution, as the representatives of the majority parties have explained. The Ombudsman is, of course, the Ombudsman for the administration of the Storting, and therefore the majority of the parties have chosen to ask the Presidency to give the mandate to the committee which is now going through the control functions of the Storting. It also means that with such a decision, the government will not come back with an investigation, because if the presidency wants it and it is adopted, it is the Harberg Committee that the Storting itself has set up, that will investigate it. Otherwise, of course, we will follow what the majority decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2905	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2910	Although the matter has taken a surprising turn, it is interesting in itself to know what the Council of State thinks about the matter itself. He says in his reply to the committee that the government will investigate whether a Nav Ombudsman is an appropriate measure to strengthen the legal certainty of users. Does that mean that the Council of State is not really fully convinced that it makes sense to set up such a Nav agent?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2915	That means that the Council of State, i.e. I, like everyone else – at least most – is obliged by a government platform, and it says to investigate the Nav Ombudsman. At the same time, it's like we're made up of parties, and they've found together with the Progress Party on a majority proposal that now makes it a Nav ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2920	I thank you for your answer. Sometimes it's more interesting than reading between the lines of what's being said. Now the government itself said that there is no reason why the government will come back with an overall assessment. In fact, the Council of State agreed that what has now happened, by the majority parties lifting the matter out of the government's hands and into the Storting, is a very unusual procedure. You get a little curious as to why things happen that way, and I wonder if the Council of State can or will answer as to why there is obviously a conflict between the Council of State and the parties to the government of the United Kingdom, and what this conflict really is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2927	It's very easy to answer. There is no conflict between me and the government parties. That's in particular what's happening outside this hall, but in a very common way we have fraction meetings, and when we deliver cases to the Stortinget or there's a Document 8 proposal, the government parties negotiate with different parties. It's not that long since the Progress Party went out, it's just a few months ago, so that's the party that's closest to us, and that we naturally apply to in most cases. It is also natural that when the parties and government parties have agreed with the Progress Party to add it to the Civil Ombudsman – which, if one asks me personally, I think can be a very good idea, simply – then it's a little strange to ask the government to come back with an investigation into how to add it to an organ under Stortinget. So that really makes sense. I understand the representative's asking, but it's a pretty up-to-date question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2934	Thanks for the answer. I guess I don't quite agree that the question was very upbuilt. I think it followed in a way that was a logical consequence of what has happened in the case. Now I was actually going to ask if the Council of State had any idea what would be the best way to organise an ombudsman, either by modeling the patient and user agent or by the Stortinges ombudsman for the administration, but now the Council came to me in advance and said that the Civil Ombudsman is a suitable place. Then I wonder: does the Council not see any concern that the Civil Ombudsman might actually have to deal with complaints that come into matters that the Civil Ombudsman has previously been in and given advice in?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2945	Here, too, there are issues that need to be clarified and discussed. The representative actually suggested that she wanted to know what I personally meant. I have to admit that I have had a very agnostic, pragmatic and open relationship with what is the best model for a Nav agent. There are advantages and disadvantages with different models. The advantage of the Civil Ombudsman – and as far as I understand it has also been contact with the Civil Ombudsman – is that it is a body that is completely independent vis-a-vis the administration. It is a body that already has competence in Nav matters. It's a little unusual, but not at all problematic in any way that the Storting itself, or a committee in the Storting, will investigate because it's the Storting's own body. I guess they'll also look at the possible problematic aspects of it. But as I said, this isn't an order for the government, which is common, this is an order that the Storting makes for itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2952	It should be unnecessary to ask for a Nav agent, because we can't have representatives of all government, it would go beyond all borders. But the demand for a Nav agent is growing because Nav works badly. A lot of people are dissatisfied. And we know that to get better operation, to get better quality, there has to be consistency between authority and responsibility. It is a unanimous committee which, in the context of the Inst. 197 S for 2019-2020, cf. Prop. 52 S for 2019–2020, says that one wishes to provide Nav professionals in the first line in municipalities and relinquishs the authority to determine all temporary Nav services. My question is, When and how will the Council of State implement this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2960	First, I almost have to ask questions back if we look at the same comments, because I think the representative refers to Innst. 234 L for 2019-2020 and also da Prop. 72 L for 2019-2020. First of all, I do not see any decision from Stortinget or anything in Stortinget that says that one should rock by what has been clear since the Nav reform, namely a division of labour between the Nav office and the Nav administrative units. I think that too is a very bad idea. - Then it's established. Question two: Is it a good idea that local Nav offices have powers, can be creative, can determine and have authority over e.g. follow-up to those who fall out of work? Yeah, that's a good idea, and it also sketched the government in Meld. St. 33 for 2015–2016, Nav in a new time. But there are two different things.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2969	What's the end of this display here today is a more positive attitude from government to a Nav environment than what's been before. Then I wonder, what is the reason for this change? Is it the EEA and the social security scandal? Is there the pressure from the very serious consequences of individual decisions in the context of the redundancy scheme? Or is there simply another multiple in Stortinget that makes the changes happen now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2974	It's just that the historians have to go in and look at it. But I mentioned earlier today that I was on the Labour and Social Committee from 2009 to 2013. Then there was another majority in this room. Then there were discussions about Nav agents. So it's not like the discussion about the Nav Ombudsman suddenly appeared yesterday, or suddenly appeared in 2013, when the Solberg government came in. It's been there a long time. So those who want to, can go into all the threads about why there was no Nav Ombudsman from 2009 to 2013, or before that, when we had the big Nav reform, where there was a lot of people dissatisfied with it. But now it has, as I said in my post, been updated with the EEA matter. And then it's as simple as the government parties and the Progress Party have taken responsibility and are now implementing policies. We've said that as a minority government, we need to be open to find good solutions in the Storting. The government parties and the Progress Party have done and implemented something that has not been achieved by the previous majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2981	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e2988	Then maybe I can contribute a little bit to that story lesson. It is SV and the Progress Party that have been champions of a Nav ombudsman from the very beginning. But it was such that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in 2013 made a proposal for a Nav Ombudsman according to the model of the Patient and User Ombudsman. In 2013, more specifically on 18 June, then Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Robert Eriksson said that he was very pleased that this had been included in the government statement, for this he had fought for a long time. Another rather central representative of one government party stated on the same day: ‘We have inter alia: agree on the need for a Nav ombudsman – not to get an ombudsman by model from e.g. The child ombudsman, but according to the model of the patient ombudsman — to be a kind of dialogue facilitator, to use a way of expression that might come from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, between the user and the system. Many cases might have been avoided if you had had a slightly better dialogue – you could sit down with a third party and solve it that way instead of making it a long-standing complaint process.’ Who said this? Those were very wise words. Yes, it was current Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Torbjørn Røe Isaksen. So he said this in 2013. One is that this is such a tumultuous majority that it is totally incomprehensible that this has not occurred before. The second is that the idea that the Civil Ombudsman is going to have this function now is very, very strange and completely contrary to what the minister said at the time, and with the majority who are now in government, meant that time. What they meant then was much wiser than what is being adopted now. What you need is exactly what Torbjørn Røe Isaacen says in his proposal: a fasilitator also in the daily work. I've been working on this for a long time. In the past, there was a user representative in the municipality of Kristiansand. That was the model when we started working on this. They sat down with Nav and the users and solved a lot of things. There was also the fact that Nav even called the Consumer Ombudsman and asked for help, and they resolved many cases together – less complaints, more satisfied users, safer users and even safer Nav staff, who were helped to resolve some of the conflicts that lie there. I certainly believe that this system must be organised as the Patient and User Ombudsman, after that model, and as both the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have previously proposed in the Stortinget, and thought was the best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3006	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3023	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3028	In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3031	This case concerns proposals from the government on changes to the Patient Injury Act, which provides the Ministry of Health and Welfare with legal support for the provision of a separate regulation on the measurement of men’s compensation in the event of patient injury. The home meal also includes regulations which, in some respects, derogate from the rules on men's compensation laid down in the Law on Compensation for Damage. Furthermore, the case refers to the proposal that the decision of Norwegian patients’ compensation on the obligation to grant private health care be an outlawed basis for outlays. The last one is put behind the overall committee. The first part of the government's proposal says no to the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV. We had hoped to get a majority to send this back to the government, so that we could first get a broad review of the entire patient injury system, its laws and practices. Instead, government parties choose full collision courses with patient and user organisations. We, the three red-green parties, find it unfortunate that there is such an obvious disagreement between the hearing bodies and the ministry as to whether a new regulation would restrict the rights of men's compensation in the event of patient injury. Yes, the committee's hearing resisted unison. For example, the Cancer Association believes that the changes represent a significant impairment of patients’ rights. The FFO Joint Organisation of disabled persons is clearly opposed. The personal injury association considers that a separate regulation and a separate medical disability table are inappropriate and inappropriate for the compensation of patients. There are also several heavy arguments that the Storting should not adopt this. As we do not get a majority to send the matter back, we ask that the vote be put up so that we can vote against this part of the vote. The Joint Organisation of Disabilities, the FFO, now calls it the majority of this room – i.e. the government parties and the party supporting the Progress Party – for a significant setback for the patient injury regime. I'm afraid the FFO is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3042	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a good job in the matter. If you get damage to the digestive system, if you get damage to your genitals, or if you get some sort of pain condition, you are at risk today that the amount of men’s compensation you get depends on who is handling the application. This is because the legislation we have today is designed in the light of typical occupational injuries. In the disability table for occupational injuries, not all of these disorders are included, and these are just some of the examples. Measurements may also be different despite the fact that the damage results in a similar disability. Right will require equal assessment of their applications for men’s replacement, regardless of where they live and who is dealing with the application. That is why the government has also taken this into account, and in this case we will probably give the government permission to make a separate provision for the payment of men's compensation for patients' injuries. In this way, we can also ensure that people receive equal treatment. For the Right, there is now no time to sit and wait for new investigations and new postponements for those who are now entitled to predictability and non-discrimination in these kinds of cases. I also want to comment briefly on something that comes from the Workers' Party. As indicated in the proposal, the government and Norwegian patient compensation agree that compensation for injury should be measured equally, irrespective of the basis of responsibility, and that a common regulation and revision of the disability table are possible and can be used for the entire patient injury area. There is nothing to prevent this later being grouped together in a common regulation or in a common table. It also writes the Government Parties and the Advance Party may be appropriate to consider in the long term, while an overall review, which is also addressed, will delay the work of non-discrimination for persons who are required to have paid but compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3059	Patients who are significantly and permanently injured as a result of failure to health care are entitled to men’s compensation. The calculation of men’s replacements is far on the road standardised. Any person with a particular disease or injury shall be assigned the same percentage of disability. The sum of the compensation is based on a fixed percentage of the basic amount of the public interest. Determination of the degree of invalidity and the calculation of compensation in the event of injury to patients are based on the occupational injury regulation and the corresponding invalidity table. The legislation is designed primarily in view of conditions arising from occupational injury. The disability table has been slightly updated in the course of medical development and is deficient for patient injuries. I believe it is important that it is easy to get an overview of how men’s compensation should be measured in case of patient injury. However, compensation for personal injury should be measured in the same way as possible, irrespective of the basis of liability. Therefore, the best thing would have been a common regulation and a joint revision of the disability table. I believe that it is not realistic to get to this within a reasonable time. I believe that the need to put in place a transparent regulation on patients' injuries means that there should be a legal framework for a separate regulation on the provision of men's compensation for patients' injuries. This does not prevent the rules from subsequently being grouped into a common regulation or the provision of a common disability table. I do not want the calculation of compensation to be detached from the general right to compensation and the law on compensation for damages. The statutory home should also include rules derogating from the Law on Compensation for Damage. The Regulation shall ensure equal treatment of patients' injuries, predictability of the calculations of men's replacements for the patient and that the replacement is based on up-to-date medical knowledge. Several hearing bodies believe that the new regulation will restrict the rights of men’s compensation in the event of patient injury. I do not agree with that presentation. The draft regulation essentially implies a continuation and clarification of the law in force. In addition, I have proposed that there should be some way to derogate from the general rules where this would lead to an unreasonable outcome for the patient. Having said that, I will of course carefully consider the objections of the hearing bodies in the further work on the regulation. I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the government's proposal for a legal basis for a separate regulation on the calculation of the compensation of men and women in the event of injury to patients, which can also complement and derogate from the rules of the Claims Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3074	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3079	The Cancer Association believes that the measurement of men’s compensation must be done in accordance with the same rules as in the rest of the right to compensation – I also heard what the Council of State said – and does not see that there are reasons to change this fundamental principle. The Cancer Association claims – and this is my main point – that the proposed changes represent a significant impairment of patients’ rights. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council worry that the Cancer Association then looks at this differently, or does he think that the Cancer Association is really wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3086	I should have liked to have seen that the Cancer Association agreed with my assessments, namely that this does not weaken patients' rights, on the contrary. I believe that this is important in order to ensure patients' rights and to ensure that patients are able to clarify these issues more quickly. These things are connected. Today's table is based on occupational injuries. This means that there are a number of health care injuries that traditionally do not occur in the workplace. This means that individual assessments have to be made in those contexts, and it is not the same standardised basis as for the other damage. It gives room for chance, but it also gives patients considerable waiting time to settle their cases. So I think what we're doing now will strengthen patients' rights. They are being treated more non-discriminatoryly, and it will hopefully also help to speed up the process in these important cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3091	The vote will take place at the next voting time. Unintentional consequences are about justice, payments and people's lives. Is the matter initially well-lit and investigated?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3097	Yeah, I mean it. But, as I also say, the objections and points of view raised in the hearing, of course, we should be careful to include ourselves in the further work on the regulation. I hope that the work on the regulation will also help to secure many of those who have had objections to these changes, through the process currently in progress, because I do not believe that there are grounds for some of the concerns that have arisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3102	This is my last question, and there'll be a little bit of variation on the same topic. It made the impression in the hearing to hear these organizations that were so very clear against. An organisation called Together for a better NPE – i.e. the patient damages, with which the Council of State is well known – has approx. 800 members with many years of experience in patient injury and health care. They believe that the legislative process should be put on hold until a thorough and objective impact assessment has been carried out. For the last time: why has the Council of State been so busy selecting this line of conflict with these organizations?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3111	Because I think today's system is very unfortunate for the patients. There are too many patients today who are at risk of not getting the compensation they should have, because their damage is not part of the personal injury table. Thus, the assessments made are, in my opinion, too random, because there is too much risk of wide variation. It also helps to make it take a long time. For some of these patients – and we know very well that unfortunately, in connection with part of the procedure, and also for other reasons, it has taken longer – it is important to get that compensation at a time when you may have enjoyed the replacement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3116	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3135	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes and the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to 10 lines will be given with replies from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up for the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3142	First, I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation on the national health and hospital plan. There have been good and constructive discussions, and we have reached broad consensus on several issues. At the same time, it is good to see that the content of the plan is firmly supported by the Committee. We are facing major challenges in the future. Then it is good to know that we can agree on the broad and long-term measures that the government has now put forward with this plan. The overall theme of the plan is how to address the health challenges of the future in the best possible way with the resources we have, both human and economic. It's a big question, and the challenges have not become any less demanding after the situation we've been in in the last few months. I don't think we're really going to have an overview of exactly how demanding it's actually going to be, until it's been a while. Because we have a situation with an extremely low oil price and high unemployment. We have zero interest for the first time in our history. It's going to mean something to the income side of the government budget in the future. And that means that all sectors, including the health sector, need to find ways to deliver the same good services in the future with less resources than we're used to. But there is also a lot to rejoice about, because the Norwegian healthcare service has delivered, and it has delivered well. We've handled the coronary apanda in a very good way so far. That doesn't mean everything's been perfect. Then there will be a time for evaluation later, but I still think we'll be proud of what health care and society else has done in this time. Good preparedness is important, and how good our preparedness was is an obvious part of the evaluation to come. But healthcare is so much more than dealing with an extreme situation than the one we've been in now. It's cancer treatment, heart operations, and dope care. There is cooperation between municipalities and hospitals. It uses new technologies and simpler digital solutions for both patients and health professionals. So even though we're in the middle of a pandemic, this is going to be the big and demanding problem in the future. Because we have big challenges ahead of us. We're getting more, and we're getting older. We get more chronic diseases, and more will live longer with these diseases and will need treatment longer. New medical technology offers new opportunities to treat disease, but it costs a lot at the same time. Expenditure on medicinal products is increasing in the number of hospital budgets. At the same time, as patients, we expect much more of the health care and municipal care services. The developments we see in pharmaceuticals and new technologies are further increasing our expectations. We will also need more hands in healthcare. The SSB estimates that we will need almost half of the future growth of the workforce in the health sector. I think most people realize that that's not possible. Let's get out of here. This is the back carpet. It's these challenges we have to solve in the future, and it requires us to think differently about a lot. The biggest and perhaps the most demanding challenge is access to health professionals. We're going to have more patients per employee in the future, and that's not a situation we can manage out of. We don't have enough people in this country to do that. So we have to think differently. We need to make it more attractive for more people to work full time, we need to make more efforts to make more people want to work in health care out life. And then we have to be better at using each other's competences more effectively. In several hospitals, they are already working in teams. That's a good way to make sure that everyone gets the best use of their skills, so we have to do more of that. There are especially nurses and health professionals we will need more of in the years to come. These groups are also given the highest attention in the national health and hospital plan. Nurses shall be given good opportunities for further training and training. We're going to increase the number of nursing places in a number of fields. Several courses are to be further developed and new masters are to be established. Lifelong careers are to be provided for nurses. They should know that they are expected, and the employer should have a plan for the development of their skills. The nurses are naved in the hospitals, and it's very convenient to give them a little extra attention today, on the international day of nursing. The health professionals also receive a little extra attention in the plan. They have a completely natural place in the hospitals. They are close to the patient, provide good care and have a lot of whole work around the patient. They can help relieve the caregivers so that they have fewer tasks. We need more health professionals, so apprenticeships are now being set up for each health business. Hospitals need more health professionals in the future, and they also need to be involved in training them, not just receiving them when they have completed their education. We cannot solve all the challenges we face in the health sector without using new technologies. At Kalne's hospital in Eastfold, new technology has been overcome with the problem of mismedication of patients. By scanning patients and medical containers, it's almost impossible to give the patient the wrong medicine. There are many ways to use new technologies to provide better healthcare for the patient. The hospital treatment of the future does not have to be done inside the hospital itself. For some patients it may be a burden to go to the hospital and get treatment there. It can be small children who have the best at home. There may be people with a long route, or people who are vulnerable to infections. We have to look at the hospitals as more than just building. By moving treatment home to patients, we give patients freedom, and we give them more and better services. An example of this is the Nordlands Hospital, which is now following up dialysis patients at home. Patients can receive treatment at home instead of going to the hospital several times a week. The patient records measurements of an app on the mobile while automatically obtaining data from weight and blood pressure measurements. This helps the kidney nurse in the hospital to better understand the condition of the patient than when it is collected manually. We're going to talk more about personalised medicine in the future. Our biology is different. Prevention, diagnostics, treatment and follow-up can now be greatly adapted to these biological conditions of each of us. The system of new methods has room to improve how we get increased use of personalised medicine in healthcare. That is why the government has commissioned health regions to look at this. It is not good when patients experience being wasteballs between different health services. This is a particular challenge at the intersection of hospitals and community health services. Interaction reform has had its child diseases. There has long been a need for better cooperation between hospitals and municipalities. One of the most important measures in the national health and hospital plan is the health community. The KS and the government have now concluded binding cooperation agreements, and that is a very good starting point. I think it's going to mean a lot to trust between municipalities and hospitals, and that once again means a better and more coherent treatment for patients. We are in the middle of a demanding period for Norwegian society and healthcare in particular. I would like to thank those who have been standing in the last few months. This isn't over. While dealing with the difficult situation we face, health care should ensure that people get their hip operations and cancer treatment, good care and emergency services. This plan is about the content of healthcare, how to deliver even better services through better use of our expertise, better cooperation and better use of new technologies. I am looking forward to the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3193	The objectives of the working party for health policy are equivalent health services. Our common health service should be available to everyone, no matter who you are, the size of the wallet, or where you live. We in the Workers' Party prioritise a professional healthcare service that competent professionals lead in the development of Norwegian hospitals. It's the heads, the hands and the faces that meet the patients. It is a health service that is dimensioned for crises and is ready for an increasing number of older and more chronically ill people, providing good, effective and accessible treatment for both somatic and mental illnesses. And then there is an innovative healthcare service that quickly adopts new methods and technologies, and that has a modern, digital infrastructure, where information about the patient flows where it is needed, in order to provide the patient with the best treatment and follow-up. Norway is a long way off, with great geographic distances and a lot of weather. I came from Trøndelag today – by car with winter tyres – I did not drive quite here, when I drove to Værnes. We in the Workers' Party have spent a lot of time traveling around and listening to our professionals, and one message goes on and on in particular. There are concerns about intensive medicine and competence to care for the most ill patients in hospitals. The lack of intensive nurses has been pointed out wherever we have been, and the government's national health and hospital plan, which we are dealing with today, is too little concrete on how to ensure sufficient staff in the years to come. Here the government doesn't deliver on the big challenges. Nor does the plan respond to the real challenges that exist in the three main areas where the plan was announced to cover: interaction, mental health protection and the emergency medical chain. It is alarming that the government has not prioritised that work more, and it contrasts with all the statements. In fact, it does not contain any reference to the particular situation in Norway right now. This setting was written mainly before the pandemic hit Norway. The health crisis has also become a real economic crisis as a result of falling oil prices and the fact that society on 12 March went into a ‘lockdown’. We now have 10 pst. unemployment. That is bad news for people, and many vulnerable people have now been left to themselves for a long time. The availability of infectious diseases equipment has proved to be precarious, both in hospitals and in municipalities, and the availability of medicinal products as well. The Social Security and Preparedness Directorate has warned against pandemics and drug shortages as likely preparedness events with major consequences. The Labour Party has put forward several proposals in the Storting to remedy the situation of a particular lack of medicinal products, and we also support proposals on this in this position. The shift in health care during the pandemic has resulted in many people having been subjected to planned treatment and studies, which will create challenges in our service in the future, but the efforts of the skilled health care professionals are all of us grateful for. There has been a demanding period of high workload, but the pandemic is not over, and we still have a demanding period ahead of us. Summer months are challenging in a normal situation, and this year they become even more demanding. The WHO underlines what needs to be prioritised in the management of a pandemic: saving lives, minimizing disruptions in society and protecting the social economy. If we don't do that, the differences will increase. Psychiatric and physical health disorders are different. Those with least resources also have the highest likelihood of disease and harassment, and for the Workers' Party it is fundamentally unfair. Increasing differences in health must be met by a solidarity policy and a strong public health service. I also participated in the treatment of the previous national health and hospital plan. It was a lot about structure. After a bit of swirly treatment, Stortinget turned back the little theoretical approach of the Right-Registration to the hospital structure, and then the Stortinget government instructed the government to centralise what is needed, to ensure quality and professional environment, but also to decentralize what is possible, in order to ensure proximity as well as quality and professional environment. The majority instructed the government to ensure that the larger regional hospitals provided more planned treatment for the smallest emergency hospitals. Unfortunately, it has not been followed up by the government after four years, and it is with a weakened confidence in the government's ability and willingness to follow up the Storting decision that we are dealing with this new plan. One of the most common speech points in debates on hospitals on the right has been health cows and that the Right-Registration has brought them down by means of free treatment choices, in practice a free right of establishment by private providers, right now disconnected in time of crisis. However, health cows, or rather waiting times, began to decline as early as 2010. The Health Minister probably believes that this is his profit, but the growth here is largely in the form of outpatient treatment and previous outsourcing, which is a result of the interaction reform. Now we see that evolution is turning around. Waiting times have begun to rise again – before the pandemic – and in addition, the government's hospital budgets have been tightened year after year and this year was at their lowest. Lack of interaction is a challenge for healthcare. Patients become too often throwballs in the system. The cooperation reform was a policy reform. It requires continuous work. Unfortunately, the government has failed here, and the municipalities have received a reply. The follow-up to the interaction reform received crushing criticism from the National Audit Office in 2016, and there is not enough cooperation between the primary and specialist health services. Hospitals do what they are prescribed, treat more and print faster, but municipalities have not been similarly strengthened with competence to treat patients who are ill. In recent years, short lay time has become a measure of both health success and the success of hospitals. Hospitals are measured at bedtime and significantly reduced in recent years. But registration of hospital bedtime says nothing about how the patient is going after hospitalization. Before Christmas, VG had several cases in which patients have been moved between different institutions and homes as caste balls. The government's proposal for a health community does not add any more resources or new decision-making structures, and the influence of the municipality on health enterprises remains the same. In a message that claims to build up patients who need health care the most, i.e. seriously ill children, patients in drugs and mental health protection, chroniclers and fragile elderly people, a person should have priority over encouraging more cooperation. Then others from the Working Party's health fraction will go into the different parts of the service. I will stop here with my post, but I will take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is in the configuration. In addition, I would like to mention some proposals that we do not have, but that we are going to support. That is proposal No. 24, from the People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, this is proposal No. 28, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, and then we are involved in loose proposals that other representatives will include in their speeches. Then I tell you that we are also going to vote for a loose proposal that we do not have, proposal No. 36 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3218	The representative, Mr Kjerkol, then addressed the proposals to which she referred, as well as gave an explanation of vote in connection with some other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3223	For the Progress Party, the focus is always on the quality and availability of healthcare. Today, when we are debating the National Health and Hospital Plan, it must be based on how we ensure the security of our citizens and the freedom to take the choices you think are best for yourself and their families. The national health and hospital plan was almost finished in the Health and Care Committee when the coronary apathy struck Norway and the government closed the country. The government will be measured by how they used the weeks they bought. What did they do to ensure access to infectious equipment, medicinal products and hospital capacity? At some point, the evaluation of this will come, but I can already conclude that the government did not buy all the capacity that existed in the private sector, and that is what the Progress Party believes is critical. The private sector rose to join the corona and made hospitals available, but the government said no. Private actors wanted to donate infectious equipment, but the government did not respond. Existing medical device suppliers experienced dramatic currency fluctuations and transport costs which increased up to 10 times. These private operators wanted to enter into dialogue with the public health service to which they provided equipment, to discuss the price of the delivery of goods, but did not receive a response. This dramatic situation will come back to us in the evaluation of the government's work to ensure the security and good services of the Norwegian population, including under the pandemic. Today, I want to highlight access to medicines in particular. Norway is almost 100 pst. depending on the import of medicinal products. 80 pst. raw materials in the whole pharmaceutical industry of the world come from China or India. In March, India adopted export restrictions on 26 pharmaceutical active substances and thus also the medicines made by them, in order to secure its own population in the coronary apathy. When the world is in crisis, the nation states think primarily of their own people. Norway is then in a particularly vulnerable situation, as we are totally dependent on imports of critical medicinal products. The Progress Party therefore believes that Norway should take some action to ensure better preparedness and production here at home in Norway. Private actors and smart minds around the country can develop tomorrow's medicine. We can build a new health industry. Through public-private cooperation, we can provide value creation, jobs and reduced vulnerability and ensure the necessary preparedness in times of crisis. Thus, Norway has both social and economic benefits from the existence of a solid Norwegian pharmaceutical industry. The Progress Party therefore shares with all parties, except the Government Parties, the proposal to put in place a preparedness model for the Norwegian production of important medicinal products, including antibiotics, and to return to the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis. National health and hospital levels are very good in many areas that are made visible. The Progress Party is pleased that there are several new actions highlighted in the plan, including: the health community. Hospitals, municipalities and permanent doctors need to cooperate better with patients and ensure that they do not fall between several chairs. The Progress Party has helped to ensure that non-profit hospitals also have a natural place in the health community, in line with the majority position in the Committee. Let me go through the hospital structure and the new principles that the Minister of Health has chosen to use when planning special food departments. As the Minister of Health concluded in January that weather conditions, long distances and local political desires would be more central arguments for hospital structure, this principle must also be applied in other regions. The Progress Party is therefore promoting proposals today to establish the Emergency and Birth Department in Alta and to ensure that the Kristiansund Food Department remains after the construction of the new Joint Hospital. Already in 2017, the Progress Party wanted an investigation into hospital structure in West Finland, which was voted down by Stortinget. When the Advance Party put in government, an investigation was started into which health services can be established at Klinik Alta. This study will be presented in a short time and will actually have to be used as a basis for further expansion of the health service at Klinik Alta. Furthermore, this must be included and influence the dimensioning of the new hospital in Hammerfest. These things need to be seen in the context in order to ensure the best possible provision of health. The party of progress does not accept that Alta, Finnmark's largest city, will stand without a maternity ward. Thus, with long distances and severe weather conditions, there is a large proportion of the population in Finnmark without a really good food supply. I hope that the government and the Workers' Party now listen to local political desires and the stories that are being told today about life that has almost been lost, and about the fear of many pregnant people knowing when thousands of people in Finnmark's largest city do not have a maternity ward and an emergency facility. The Progress Party also promotes proposals to establish fixed ambulance aircraft in Kirkenes and is pleased that the Workers' Party supports that proposal today. After much over and over, we can also rejoice that the government has finally listened, and that this will come into place. Furthermore, in the Progress Party, we propose that the Church Hospital should have Level 2 intensive activities so that the citizens of East Finland who receive the necessary treatment can receive treatment for heart attack and respiratory disease when necessary. Our proposals will strengthen the health service throughout Finnmark, and today we have only hope that the government and the Workers' Party will support us in this. In Kristiansund, of course, there is also a discussion about the maternity ward. I have visited the hospital in both Molde and Kristiansund, and I see that the hospital in Molde today is worn out. It does not take sufficient care of the privacy of critically damaged patients, and the Progress Party is concerned about building a new joint hospital for North-Møre and Romesdal. But what we can't understand is why the maternity ward in Kristiansund is going to be laid down. This region is folk, has long distances and demanding transport options if the maternity ward is laid down. There are more people who depend on good health services and deserve good follow-up. A large survey conducted among the visually impaired, conducted by the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, shows that a very large proportion of the group is depressed, much more than it is in the population otherwise. In addition, there are far more within the group that are lonely. Now under the coronary apnea, this situation hasn't improved. Despite this, there are no psychologists or psychiatrists today who have the power to provide assistance to the blind and partially sighted. This offer must be put in place, and I am pleased that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party agree with us on it. It is also not difficult to get such an offer in place. Gaustad Hospital has an offer aimed at hearing-impaired people. This is a national treatment service that provides direct follow-up to both hearing-impaired persons and persons with combined hearing and visual impairment, and has professionals who follow up the two groups in mental health protection around the country. The Progress Party wishes to establish a similar offer for visually impaired persons to be made in connection with this offer for hearing impaired persons. They have confirmed that they want to take on such a task, and it should therefore be straightforward to do. The Progress Party wants to liquidate regional health enterprises and to divide the tasks between a national governance unit and individual health enterprises. We believe that it is now high time to remove the predatory and bureaucratic intermediary, rather than prioritizing the means by which the funds should be prioritised, namely for patient treatment. Finally, I would like to commend the entire Health and Care Committee for having cooperated well on a concrete challenge that has arisen in a new merged municipality, in Holmestrand. The new Holmestrand municipality has recently discussed the hospital affiliation of the new municipality. Old Sande municipality has been used to use the hospital in Drammen, while the other part of the new municipality has used Tønsberg. In the work of the National Health and Hospital Plan, the entire Health and Care Committee has reached a common agreement that this must actually allow the municipality to decide for itself, and the municipality itself wants a shared hospital solution. It then ensures that the entire health and care committee today will have the new Holmestrand municipality allowed. At the end of the day, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party is part of or has promoted alone. There may be a discussion during the debate on the maternity ward in Kristiansund, and I can inform you in advance that we will subsidiaryly support proposal No. 22, from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3263	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3268	The centre party believes that there is a need for an overarching national health and hospital plan, but the centre party calls for a mandatory plan to ensure elected government governance of the development. This plan is not enabled. For example, there is a lack of the health and health plan that is pending. a senior investment plan. The centre would like to phase out the health service model and introduce a new funding model for hospitals. At present, health professionals are subject to accounting laws and have to finance the necessary investments through the surplus of the operating budget. This funding model has led many places to a substantial cut in the operating budget and to a consistent under-dimension of new hospital buildings. The health tax model with the introduction of a market economy principle and a high level of input-driven funding facilitates the centralisation and privatisation of services. The centre party thinks we need a new direction in the specialist services, where we strengthen the public hospitals and secure decentralised provision. We mean that this National Health and Sickness Plan doesn't guarantee it. The government is making this plan before the KoronAPandemi frame of Norway, and the plan does not contain any description of what it takes to equip our health services against a pandemic. It has been known today that in the middle of March, Norwegian hospitals were practically empty for infectious disease protection equipment; the mouthband containers were only for four weeks of normal use. The fact that our healthcare professionals have not provided such a basic response is a political responsibility. I would like to include the Centre Party's suggestions in the setting. I would also like to raise two proposals that are being put forward in the Chamber today. That is proposal No. 34, on behalf of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, to ask: ‘The government shall promote a new national health and hospital plan as soon as the evaluation of its management of the coronavirus pandemic has been carried out. The plan must specifically address national health preparedness in both specialist and community health services and describe how healthcare should prevent and strengthen preparedness for serious health crises such as pandemics and drug shortages». It is also proposal No. 35, on behalf of a collective opposition – from the Advance Party to Red, that is, the plural – to ask the government ‘at the earliest possible opportunity to put in place a contingency model for the Norwegian production of important medicinal products, including antibiotics, and return to Stortinget on a case-by-case basis’. It was announced by the government that this plan would have three main issues. It was interaction, prehospital services and mental health protection. The center party believes that none of these main themes have been dealt with thoroughly enough. New distributions and development plans are widely referred to. The Health Directorate and regional health professionals shall address the future need for mental health protection capacity. Health professionals are assigned to evaluate the prehospital services and the emergency medical chain in their forthcoming development plans. The 19 health communities will be involved in better interaction with the next health and hospital plan. We believe that this should be done and be part of the political plan we are about to adopt today. Now, one of the most important, e.g. dimensioning of our healthcare service, has appeared in new editions. The Government proposes to establish a health community. These can contribute to better collaboration venues, but we do not think that it alone solves the interaction challenges in the Norwegian health care system. It does not add any more resources or modify decision structures. From the outset, it is legal for municipalities and hospitals to enter into cooperation agreements, and it is clearly concrete what these should be about, from the admission to the delivery of patients. The agreements shall be reviewed annually in view of the necessary updates and improvements. I do not understand why the government has not ensured that these cooperation agreements work and are updated. Too many elderly patients are now being thrown into a whirlpool of a system of ready-to-write patients, low hospital bed capacity, economically motivated relocations and lack of capacity in municipalities. Today’s hospital funding with a high level of unit-price financing and the obligation to pay out-of-print patients does not build up in cooperation, but can exacerbate it. So it's going to take a lot more than new health communities to sort this out. I think it is critical that the government has not followed up on the interaction reform and has voted down proposals for evaluation. But the Center Party is happy to have multiples for a proposal that ideal hospitals and ideal district psychiatric centers can be included in the new health communities to be created. National health and hospital plans should also be concerned with mental health protection. Here again, we believe that the plan is too undercommittal. The government does not have an idea about the capacity needs, and this needs to be done further. The Golden Rule is not followed up. The central party proposes, together with the Labour Party and the SV, to put a stop to further decommissioning of daily places in mental health protection until it announces the delivery of future capacity. We also propose a separate big message on this important area of Norwegian health care. So the third main theme in the morbidity plan is prehospital services. In the municipalities, a number of places feel that health professionals are depriving themselves of the responsibility and transferring it to the municipalities. The 2018 fire statistics showed that the fire and rescue operations accounted for more than 6000 health missions in 2018, and that this is the most frequent task outside fire. The car ambulance service has several and more missions, but there are no more ambulances. Many healthcare agencies plan to cut the ambulance supply, the response time targets are not met. The centre party today, together with the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party, proposes that the government request a prescribed response time for the Blue Light services, and that equipment and professional competence requirements be set in the service. The Party of Progress can obtain a majority in favour of this proposal today. The centre party also proposes to take care of the emergency relief function. The background is that emergency workers who are municipally funded are gradually given greater and greater responsibilities and are, in reality, a substitute for the state supply. The centre party is pleased that there are several points for a proposal to ask the government to come back to the Stortinget for a matter on the base structure of the air ambulance, which will cover both the Inland and the Vinje/Bycle. We've been clear that we're going to have to create an air ambulance base in Vinje, possibly in Bykle, and assume that the thing we're getting isn't enough of this. The Health and Sickness Plan is not about the provision of birth and maternity. It's unacceptable in itself. In 2018, the Stortinget decided to ask the government to secure a secure and future-oriented birth care by securing the birth institutions of today. The proposal of the Central Party to ensure that none of today’s food departments or other food supply is shut down was voted down by the Progress Party and the Government Party as late as in January 2020, but was then supported by the Labour Party. In Northern Ireland, a new hospital is to be built. The centre party has been involved since the loans were dealt with in the Stortinget in 2017, also for a department hospital in Kristiansund with the maternity and maternity ward. Today, we propose the same thing as we did in 2017 and 2019, that the food department in Kristiansund is not shut down. Now we just lack the Labour Party's votes to ensure that none of today's food supply is cut down – which is what the Labour Party voted for in January. The Central Party also proposes, together with the Progress Party, to expand the provision of specialist health services in Alta with a food department and necessary emergency functions – also the same proposal we have made in Stortinget before. It shall be assumed that a new hospital will be built in Hammerfest and that these will cooperate in a network model. The maternity care in Norway is under strong pressure. We have a new research showing the link between travel to a food establishment and unfortunate events. The risk of unplanned birth outside the institution is five times the travel time of more than one hour. The first time born over an hour of travel has 50 pst. increase the risk of potentially life-threatening complications. Women with unplanned birth outside the institution have about threefold the risk of the child dying in connection with birth. Such new knowledge of the risk of long journeys to birth must mean that one has to think about birth care in Norway. A better followup service will never be able to replace it with time. The fact that the Storting lands not to shut down the maternity ward in Helgeland is good, but it is incomprehensible that the proximity to the food supply should only apply to some places in the country, not to other places. We've got a long country, and we think it's going to be people in the whole country. Then we need a new birth care policy. We can do that if we get more than one speech for the proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3312	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the suggestions she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3317	We weren't prepared when the pandemic hit Norway. Norway only had infection protection equipment for a few weeks with normal consumption when the pandemic hit. Our hospitals are bleeding money. The idea that health professionals need to have a forced strike as input-driven funding is has led hospitals to get less income when we're in a pandemic. Hospitals need more income when we're inside the pandemic. This system is not working. We have a front line in the fight against the virus – health professionals, nurses, doctors, porters, cleaning personnel and many others. They've been working day and night. Thank you to them for securing our country! We can also clapp to them, but a clapp is not what they need. They – and we – need more entire, permanent jobs in health services, with good pay and working conditions. We need more people at work. Two out of three health professionals and nurses work part-time. The majority of them have not been offered an increase in the number of jobs in the corona era. One hospital has sued four nurses to prevent them from getting a full-time job. Then we have a big problem. The National Audit Office’s survey of the manning challenges in health firms shows that we had major problems before the pandemic hit Norway. Hospitals are struggling with the recruitment of health workers and have no plan for how to do so. They're struggling to keep health workers. We need to build people, not use them up. We need more permanent, entire jobs in the health care system. We also had problems accessing important drugs. Now it's even worse. SV has worked to produce medicines and infectious diseases equipment in Norway before the pandemic hit Norway. SV was almost all alone. I am proud and pleased that we get a majority for Norwegian production of important medicines, including antibiotics. Finally, Norway can strengthen an industry that ensures patients and can lead to more jobs. It's one medicine that's the foundation of the whole health system, and it's antibiotics. We have forgotten how much antibiotics have meant – and mean – to people on earth. If we lose antibiotics that work, a scrubbing wound and pneumonia can kill us. The number of bacteria with antibiotic resistance is increasing dramatically. In the EU, 25 000 people die every year of antibiotic resistance, and in India many tens of thousands of children die every year. Several hospitals in the EU have bacteria that are immune to all antibiotics. Over the last 30 years, we haven't found any new antibiotics. Then we should use less antibiotics and save them for use as vital medicine for those who need it the most. Antibiotic resistance is called the health sector’s climate crisis. This is one of the greatest challenges in modern medicine. The use of broad spectrum antibiotics in Norway is still high, so I hope that the other parties will support the SV proposal. I take up the suggestion SV is behind it alone. SV will vote subsidiaryly for proposal No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3338	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3344	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a very good work on this plan. We live in a world where things happen quickly. In the period from this message to the treatment in Stortinget, Korona has led us away from the normal everyday life we all know about, and over in a time when a pandemic limits both what we do and where we move. Our health system is in a particularly forward-looking position when a pandemic affects society. The government's goal of flattening the curve includes, among other things: have been important in helping the health care system to enable them to treat all those who need it. In particular, health workers have made a formidable effort over the past few weeks. When the country is now on its way back to a slightly more normal situation, it is important that, as far as possible, they also come to a normal state of health. In order to be able to manage a rapid increase in the number of infected persons, several planned operations, studies and the like have recently been postponed. Implementing these as quickly as possible is important, so that patients get the help and treatment they both need and have the right to. This will take place in our healthcare system, but I am sure that it will be resolved within the given framework. The Coronapandemic has also shown us the importance of strong international cooperation. Norwegian authorities have cooperated closely with both international, European and Nordic authorities over the past few weeks. Being more together on health preparedness is also a strength for Norway. The health system is for the patients. This plan also aims to ensure more comprehensive and coherent health and care services for all, irrespective of where the service is provided and who provides it. The goal is for everyone to get the help and treatment they need. Health-Norway consists of a variety of actors, and it is important that it continues to do so. Unfortunately, the various actors often act more as partners than partners, and ever since the interaction reform, there has been work to ensure more cooperation and interaction. Good progress in the right direction is also continuing through this plan. There is a lot that gets better when we interact well, and I think that also applies to the healthcare system. The Health and Sickness Plan proposes the establishment of a health community to equip the parties to become partners through more interaction. The fact that the healthcare system — no matter who and where — can see, follow and know what is the next step in your treatment will make it safer and hopefully easier to be a patient. This information will be better and easier to access. Fewer people get to throw balls in the system or experience that no doors lead to proper treatment. In the new health communities, it is emphasised that ideal and private actors need to find and have their natural place. This is particularly important for the ideals, hospitals and DPS. In order to ensure good cooperation across the country, it is also important that there is room for local adaptations in the health community, so that each region can build on its own needs. That this ensures the ideal actors place, such as both hospitals and DPS, is very good and a strength for future development. Health communities will also be an important venue for the sharing and learning of competences and contribute to health services benefiting from developments elsewhere in the health system. The important questions to ask are, what can we learn from each other, and who can we share this knowledge with? Being a parent is a great moment for everyone who experiences it. It is important to feel safe and well-kept through all that happens through pregnancy and childbirth, and that healthcare is close when you need it. An important part of public health in Norway is equivalent health services to pregnant and pregnant women — wherever. Norway is and will continue to be one of the safest countries in the world to be born, and we need to take care of and process the good and safest birth care we have. That is why we will, among other things, secure maternity wards and maternity wards other than the large women’s clinics, so that everyone is close to a food supply. The government has also announced that they will review measures to improve food supply, and I look forward to what good measures will be promoted based on this review.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3372	A new national health and hospital plan represents in many ways a milestone in the country’s welfare provision. In particular, the present plan focuses on the relationship between primary and specialised health services and the innovation of health communities. The pandemic crisis has increased the importance of optimum interaction between levels of Norwegian health care, but also strengthened the need for international cooperation, particularly within the EU community. The left has also highlighted the need to look at increased Nordic cooperation in the field of health preparedness. The present plan provides guidance for health sector investment in the period 2020–2023, i.e. halfway into the next enlargement period. The projections underlying the plan have a more than 10 years longer perspective. A debate on the plan here in the Chamber is therefore an invitation to say something about the parties' long-term primary policies. When I personally direct Left's efforts to promote a draft Party Health Programme for the next majority period, I will thus signal parts of the direction I believe the party should go in within this sector. The health policy of the left is based to a significant extent on the policies pursued through the platforms of Jeløya and Granavolden. The starting point is a strong public health provision and a high level of cooperation between the non-profit and the private sector. The patient’s healthcare, which has been the guiding principle of the current government, must be continued. In the view of the Left, this must mean that, within a sound economic and professional framework, we decentralise the service provision as much as possible. Such thinking, which involves critical considerations, often puts local and state authorities to the test. Sometimes too radical decentralisation of service provision could lead to a total deterioration in quality. In other cases, it is a fact that special geographical conditions require us to extend beyond the economic – perhaps administrative – considerations. For the Left, the situation in Alta has been very important through the negotiations on Jeløya and Granavolden. It is no secret that my party within the government has been continuously first on the train, often alone, for a significantly better health offer in the municipality. The reason for this is Alta's position as a growth area, the population size of the municipality and special geographical and cultural challenges. That is why I am particularly proud of the point in the government statement on a strengthened offer to Klinik Alta, and for having put forward the proposal that the regional reform should lead to the Finnmark Hospital becoming part of the University Hospital Nord-Norway. The fact that the population is to be covered by a significantly greater proportion of the need for hospital services, as it is called in the platform, does not yet consider that the Left can be supported by the government, as it may appear in a committee comment. There are no other parties that, over time and with such great influence, have taken on such a consistent policy for the benefit of the Alta community. It is difficult to imagine a parliamentary situation where it is possible to achieve more for Alta than by a strong Left within the framework of a blue-green government. In this work, Alta Left has made a formidable effort. A strong Left in the municipality is the best guarantee for a long-term and good health service in the area. In a different perspective, I find it necessary to refer to another case of a local political nature that I am a little surprised that the Health and Welfare Committee has promoted decisions on today. It concerns the case of the patient flow from the Holmestrand municipality. Should it be directed northwards to the new Drammen Hospital, or southwards, to Tønsberg and the Hospital in Vestfold? The proposal, which will have a majority, is a shared solution, so that the people of Sande are served by the Drammen and the municipality of Tønsberg. That may make sense, but I can't see it any different than the fact that the Storting has thus deviated from an important principle enshrined in the Health Business Act. The case is not managed in Health South-East, where it would probably be stressed the challenges that such a divided solution confronts the enlarged municipality of Holmestrand, among others. by the fact that the municipality will now have to deal with two health communities. The business model has obvious weaknesses. It may be necessary to look at it in the next enlargement period, but I think it is important that relationships relating to patient flows, the construction of the specialist health service, economics, etc. are subject to a much stronger professional assessment than has been the case here. I think this decision is going to go into the history books as a good example of big business. To those who ask me about my position on this, it has to do with concern for the Hospital in the Westfold economy and specialist competence: the answer is yes. This does not preclude, of course, the fact that the decision may prove to be justified, but otherwise it is important that the municipality has room for action to change the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3397	National health and hospital plan is the government’s strategy to provide the patient’s healthcare in a sustainable way. The first national health and hospital plan clarified the hospital structure in Norway. We are now setting out the direction and framework for the development of specialist healthcare and cooperation with municipal health and care services. When I presented the message last November, covid-19 was not yet discovered. The management of the virus has naturally taken most of the attention both in healthcare and in society in recent months, and it is likely to affect us in the next few years as well. It can then be easy to imagine that the National Health and Hospital Plan, which the Stortinge treats today, is out of date. That's not true. I'd rather say the opposite. The challenges that we addressed in the National Health and Hospital Plan are still there. We're getting more, we're getting older, and we expect more of the health care. At the same time, there is a limit to how much more health professionals we can realistically access. This makes it difficult to reconcile wishes and opportunities within the resources available to us. The pandemic we're now in doesn't change this picture. It enhances the image. There are many challenges, but there are also a lot of opportunities. In order to achieve the patient’s health care in a sustainable way, we need to exploit the opportunities offered by technology, make best use of the skills of employees and solve the problems in new ways. With one of the best health services in the world, we have a good starting point. In the patient’s healthcare system, the patient should be able to be an active participant in his or her own treatment, but also in the development of healthcare services. Patient and dependants shall be seen and heard. Communication between patients and healthcare should be understandable. Competence shall be a matter of course and citizens shall be able to communicate with the services digitally. Patients shall experience a coherent healthcare service across hospitals and municipalities. Vulnerable patients with complex needs shall experience a service that occurs in teams around them. The establishment of the 19 health communities shall contribute to a more coherent health and care service and a more equivalent partnership between municipalities and hospitals. In the health community, representatives from municipalities and hospitals, users and permanent residents will jointly develop and plan services for vulnerable patient groups and find solutions tailored to local needs. The number of hospitals and municipalities in the various health communities will vary. The Committee is concerned that non-profit hospitals should be included in the health community, and I fully agree with that. We've always taken this into account. The exact identity of the sample should be agreed locally. The Government and the CS agree that health communities should give priority to four groups in their joint planning: vulnerable elderly people, children and young people, people with severe mental and drug problems and persons with multiple chronic disorders. Crisis management has made it difficult to start formal work on the establishment of the health communities and the concrete planning of services for the four patient groups, but my impression is very clear: much of the cooperation that has emerged during these months around the management of the covid-19 pandemic, both from the municipalities, from the hospitals and with the counties involved, has just been based on the principles of the health communities, and therefore this whole idea has now been put into practice in many places. I am absolutely sure that the experience gained now will be valuable in the further work on establishing a health community and helping bring hospitals and municipalities closer together, and there will also be a strength in the emergency work. In the patient’s healthcare system, it is a goal that specialist health care should get closer to the patient. In the future, hospitals will be less a house the patient comes to, and to a greater extent a service that comes to the patient. We want to create the extroverted hospital where specialists in large hospitals also assist colleagues in smaller hospitals, specialists from hospitals cooperate with local health professionals in the municipal arena, and hospitals help the patient at home or through digital solutions. This is important for the way hospitals act in the health community. Psychiatric health protection is a subject addressed in the notification. We're conducting three main operations. We need to better estimate what the population needs and how services should be organised to meet this need. We will give priority to quality and content. These include: to ask the patient what works, and to introduce what works, faster. We will further develop services by implementing new forms of treatment, digital solutions and more team-based work. In the National Health and Hospital Plan, we set a clear direction for the use of technology in healthcare. We need to exploit the potential of technology to move services home to the patient, use our common health data and artificial intelligence to develop better health care and facilitate more personalised medicine. Moving more services home can contribute to increasing patient mastering, a more customised offer, the early capture of signs of deterioration, and better protection against infection. Less time spent on travel and waiting means more freedom for patients and better resource use in the service. Here again, we see that the use of video and other digital solutions in the service has increased dramatically over the past few weeks as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. In April, I asked health regions to use digital home follow-up and online treatment where possible. We need to ensure that the positive changes that are taking place now become permanent and an integral part of the service even when the crisis is over. The Government will ensure clear governance and coordination of digitisation actions. The patient treatment objectives shall lead to the implementation of digitisation measures. Once again, the emphasis of the message on digitisation has been an important part of the preparedness of this situation. The Covid-19 situation has also underlined the importance of having sufficient health professionals with the right skills to deal with these kinds of crises. In the plan we describe that if we continue as today, according to the SSB, the number of annual works has to increase by 35 pst. versus 2035. In this case, almost half of the growth in the labour force in Norway has to go to health and care. It goes without saying that that's not possible. Therefore, we need to shift resource growth away from manning, which is a scarce resource, to investing in skills and technology, so that we can reduce future needs for increased labour. Hospitals need both personnel and competence planning in order to meet the needs of the services. That means they need to know how many heads they're going to need, and what skills the employees need. There are especially nurses and health professionals we want to lack. These are the groups that receive the most attention in this plan. We will increase the educational capacity of nurses and increase the quality of continuing training. It's a good thing to say today, on the world's day for nurses – and that also gives me a good opportunity to congratulate the President on the day. In the revised national budget, the government proposes 260 million. kr, corresponding to one annual admission of about 4000 more students, of which about 1500 are in health and social subjects. Plasters are distributed among others. medical, nursing and further training in nursing. In the national health and hospital plan, we state that health professionals should have a place in hospitals. Hospitals also have an important responsibility to ensure that enough health professionals are trained for community health and care services. That is why we demand more health professionals and the establishment of training offices in all health businesses. Some may claim that the national health and hospital plan is out of date because it does not cover the emergency area. Here, too, I disagree. The message provides more answers on how to prepare ourselves for future crises. To respond to future challenges, we need enough people with the right skills, close cooperation between municipalities and hospitals, and we need to further develop the emergency medical chain. The plan also mentions national health and preparedness plans as the overall framework for the prevention and management of all types of crises and disasters in the healthcare sector. Any crisis and pandemic will be different, and the need for action will vary, but there will undoubtedly be learning points from the covid-19 pandemic, and of course we have to come back to that. Both municipalities and hospitals are making an impressive effort to deal with the pandemic. The crisis has seized a great deal of capacity both in services and in agencies, which has delayed the implementation of national health and hospital plans. At the same time, this reinforces the need to implement the measures, and it will be an important priority for the government also on the way out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3439	The President thank you for the congratulations. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3446	I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate the nurse on the day. We are probably all impressed with the ability to convert that has been shown in Norwegian hospitals, where you have changed the operation in days and weeks, processes that you would normally have thought would have taken months and years, and perhaps years rather than months. What we see is that the way hospitals are funded presents some challenges in such a crisis situation. Hospitals have an input-driven funding that represents about a quarter of the total. 50 pst. of the funding, where you get money depending on how many patients you treat. The red-green government had a lower share of this type of funding, and the government chose to increase it again. I also see that the revised national budget strengthens the basic funding by 5.5 billion. kr. So my question to the Minister of Health is whether he looks differently at rewarding per treated patient when you now have experience of this crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3453	No, I don't, because what we're seeing is that we have the opportunity to provide health care companies with the opportunity to cover their expenses. We show that through the revised budget, as we are presenting today, and it has also been the message to health businesses all the way, that they are going to take the necessary measures in this crisis. At the same time, it is quite right that hospitals have also suffered income losses as a result of having had the opportunity to treat fewer patients. That part is something we have to follow and come back to when we have better calculations, but this is of course also possible, for example. to compensate hospitals for this. Now we are in a situation where hospitals have to increase their activity again to take back many of the patients who have now had to wait. I believe that having reduced effort-driven funding will weaken the ability to succeed in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3462	I hear that you have a great deal of faith in giving financial incentives – as it is called – in the way hospitals operate, but in the way that hospitals interact with municipalities, you have not chosen the same logic. The plan focuses more on the interaction between these health businesses, but has not chosen to look at economic instruments to improve the interaction between hospitals and municipalities this time. We know that the majority of patients need resources from the municipality in which they live, and that they are often in the hospital 10–15 times in a year. It was these patients who were supposed to raise this plan, but here the government has not seen the value of the same logic that you're talking about in order to stimulate economic activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3467	It is quite right that, when it comes to having good activity in hospitals, we believe that having a share of the income associated with patient activity contributes to high activity and to reducing waiting times. But we probably have less faith than the Workers' Party that spending money is what makes for better cooperation with municipalities. That is why we decided very quickly to wind up one part of the financial incentives introduced by the Workers' Party for interaction, namely that the municipality would pay especially for elderly patients who were hospitalised. Then I have also said that when we now gain experience from the health communities, it will also be an advantage to be able to take away the payment that the municipality today – through claims – makes for the patients who stay in hospitals, and that one can rather arrange it together. Because we see that this type of incentive often has side effects that are not positive for cooperation, by one looking at one another as partners instead of partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3474	There are several good examples of good interaction mentioned in the plan presented by the Council of State, where funding and joint funding of actions are a challenge. Are you not willing to look at potential dedicated money pots to promote this kind of interaction structures? We have Patient Centered Healthcare Team in Tromsø, and they work very well. It's project-funded, and we know that as long as it's a project, you have low shoulders, but when you're going to go into sustainable operations, with good results, it's harder to get co-financing. It is this type of economic incentive that the Workers' Party is calling for. Analyzing yesterday's solutions is not our desire, but to promote the seamless service that exists between hospitals and municipalities, for very many very ill patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3479	I do not exclude that good projects can also be supported, but we will not solve the interaction challenges through even more pilots and projects. This is exactly one of the challenges: if you only cooperate on the basis of the situations in which you receive project support, or that it is basically the money that will govern your success in collaboration, we will never move on. It's one of the challenges I've been experiencing with the thought of the interaction reform, which was very focused on legal and economic instruments, while in the health community it's our goal that one should see in common that what serves both hospitals and municipalities is that one together does the best job for the patient. It will also be what is most economically sustainable for the whole of society. If one manages to get to the common understanding, I think we'll get the necessary step forward, and then often economic incentives can work against its purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3485	Now it was precisely my point not to go further with project funding, but to secure an economy that makes it permanent to work together on the sickest patients. But I have another question, and it is for the purposes of the previous national health and hospital plan, where the Stortinget clearly instructed the government to ensure that planned treatment is moved more from the major regional hospitals where possible, to smaller emergency hospitals, which depend on having a certain volume of planned treatment to maintain their more acute functions as it is intended to have. The government doesn't seem to have succeeded. But I want to keep the positive tone and ask the Minister of Health if he has some good examples that this has become reality since the last time the Stortinget dealt with the National Health and Hospital Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3492	Firstly, I fully agree that in the previous health and hospital plan, one of the main actions of the government – not from the Stortinget, but from the government – was to say that the future in Norway still contains a decentralised hospital structure, where the smaller hospitals depend on the larger ones, but where the larger hospitals also depend on the smaller ones. That's why the team organisation of the hospital was introduced as a main act in that plan, and I'm glad the Stortinget joined it. So I think we've seen that one in many contexts now is more concerned with that particular perspective. While the major hospitals in the past were, to a much greater extent, concerned that the best thing would be if the most problems were moved to them, we now see that there has been a completely different calm around the smaller hospitals. It's just because you've followed up that thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3499	I have noticed what the government parties have said in this case from the pulpit. The Christian People's Party has, among other things: said that everyone should be close to a food supply, and the representative from the Left did well to declare himself the best guarantor of the best health care for the people of Alta. The Minister of Health, Bent Höie, has also stressed, earlier this year, new principles of hospital structure, where distance, weather conditions and local political desires are to be given more emphasis. Does this mean that the government is now going in to support the Progress Party and the Central Party's proposal to establish a maternity ward with the necessary emergency functions in Alta? And what is the government's objective in ensuring a healthy health offer for the people of Alta?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3506	Firstly, the principles set out by the representative are not new. They were fixed in the previous national health and hospital plan, and that is the way the hospital structure was planned even when the Advance Party was part of the government. It's like there's a food supply in Alta, and I'm very concerned that it's a food supply that's going on and on, because it's an important part of the security that's local. Then we also now have, as a follow-up to the consensus between today's government parties and the Progress Party, a working group working to look at what other tasks can be added to Clinic Alta. I'm sure one will also come up with further tasks that will strengthen the provision of the Alta population. But having a maternity ward in Alta at the same time as having a maternity ward in Hammerfest – there are not enough births for in West Finland. So if we go in that direction, we're actually going to be out of birth for a short time both in Hammerfest and in Alta.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3513	If distance, weather conditions and local political desires are to be given greater emphasis, as the Minister of Health now confirms, one can start to wonder how the inhabitants of the North Moravia and Romesdal are going to deal with that answer, because there is health center and has announced that they are going to lay down the maternity ward in Kristiansund now. Now, long before the new common hospital is finished, they have to put it down. In this case, the Progress Party and the Center Party have also proposed that the hospital should not only be continued until the new building is clear, but also afterwards. There are over 300 births this year, and I wonder very much why the Minister of Health does not want to send guidance signals to Health Midway to the Kristiansund maternity ward until the hospital is finished, and to be part of the new Nordmøre and Romsdal joint hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3518	It's just because one in this area had a very thorough and very long process of discussing what was the best hospital structure for the North Sea and Romesdal. There was a broad consensus that the best solution was a common hospital. What there was disagreement was where the common hospital was to be located. Now one is building the common hospital, and that will also mean that one gets a common food supply. It has been a prerequisite all the way, and I believe that it will provide a better offer than what you have today, and it has also been part of the basis for a locally rather broad desire for a common hospital for the North Sea and Romesdal. When it comes to the question of maintaining both maternity wards until the new hospital is completed, I see that there is a majority in the Stortinget today. I would just like to stress that Stortinget cannot take responsibility for the local management that any offer should be sound at all times. It does not allow Storting to pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3527	Thanks for the answer. After all, there are no political parties, I am aware, who disagree with the construction of the new common hospital, but, in planning it, it should still be a health service and a clinic in Kristiansund with different health services for the population there. This is the question of whether the Kristiansund maternity ward should be continued – and it is not just for the residents who live in Kristiansund municipality, but it is for the surrounding municipalities that get long travel distances. I find it alarming to get the signals Bent Höie now gives, that he will still allow Health Middle to control this, despite what the Storting decides today. I just want a confirmation that Bent Höie sincerely believes that the decision the Stortinget is making today to continue the maternity ward in Kristiansund, not necessarily being followed up by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3536	Of course, the decision – if it is made today – will be followed up. What I stress is that someone then has to assume that if the local management perceives that an offer is not sound, a decision to collapse cannot overdo it. It is always the case that local management is responsible at all times for the proper functioning of a health service and that it is not appropriate to close it. I'm very concerned about stressing this, so we don't put pressure on health care managers to maintain offers that one considers to be irresponsible, because it can have quite dramatic consequences for patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3541	It was a special line exchange just now. If you read the risk and vulnerability analyses from Health More and Romesdal and what is dangerous about creating the new hospital, then you can decide to merge the departments in advance because there is a great risk of losing your skills and destroying your professional environment. That's what's happening right now. So I want to ask the council if he actually thinks what he's saying, and threatens with quality, when it's just that one has to shut down the maternity ward pretty soon, which makes the trade union environment confused and recruitment more difficult in the maternity ward, among other things. in Kristiansund.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3546	Of course, I mean what I'm saying, and I'll think that what I'm saying, is not surprising to anyone. What would be surprising was whether the representative Toppe disagreed with what I said, namely that the local management does not have a responsibility for the soundness of the offer at all times, and that, if they feel that an offer is not sound, they can do something about it, despite what the Storting has decided. In that case, it would be surprising in this case if Toppe disagreed with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3551	I'm not disagreed with that. The point is that the Council of State puts other leaders in its answer, where he threatens with quality. It is the health care agency itself that will speed up the closure of a food department, which may make the supply irresponsible, because it creates job insecurity and thus makes it more difficult for the professional community to be confused and recruited. That's what's my point, and I think the Council of State actually has to straighten out what he says, because he's putting quite strong leadership now that what the Storing might decide will lead to that not a defensive offer. I mean, the Council of State has no reason to say. So I would like to ask again for an answer from the Council of State, that what the Storting actually decides today on the provision of food, is to be followed up in health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3557	I confirmed in my previous reply that I am going to follow it up, but I also underlined that if this proposal gets a majority today, something rare happens in Stortinget, namely that an explicit position is taken on a specific offer in a healthcare service. It's not common for the Storting to do it. Then it is my duty as State Council to draw the attention of Stortinget to the fact that, even if the Storting chooses to decide on a specific offer at a hospital, it does not relieve the local management of the responsibility for ensuring that the offer being operated is always sound, and that it is not such that the Stortinget has taken a decision on one offer that would allow one to extend the requirement of safety. There is an important reminder in a situation where a very fast, when the Storting makes that kind of decision, can localize that one may be required to extend that type of requirement. It is my duty to stress that it is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3562	Congratulations to all the nurses in Norway! The hospital Østfold has sued four nurses who want a full job. What will the Minister of Health do to allow more people to get full, permanent jobs in health services with good pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3569	What I want to do with it is what I've done, which is to give health companies the task of facilitating a full-time culture. Fortunately, we also see that we have given results. More and more people get all the jobs and jobs in our hospitals. Then the government has also made changes to the law to give greater certainty about getting full jobs. The way in which the new legislative changes are implemented, there can be disagreement between the parties, and then we have the kind of mechanisms to which the representative refers, to resolve that kind of disagreement. It is not a matter in which I am a party, and we also need to respect that the parties in such a situation may have different interpretations of the law that our government introduced, and that it may be tried through a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3576	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3581	Much has happened, and is happening, with the prehospital services. The possibilities are many and great, if we bet. We relate the word ‘innovation’ most to business development, but the word is definitely also used when we talk about the ambulance service. Professional development is impressive in this very important part of the health system. Today's patients receive advanced treatment before they arrive at the hospital. Today, we have prehospital treatments for acute diseases and injuries that could previously only be caused in hospitals, such as symptoms of acute heart attack and stroke. Modern technology can also work very well in getting an overview of accident sites. The situation in the prehospital services cracks. On the one hand, there is a very positive, innovative development, as I said, but on the other hand, there is every cause for concern. We see that the ambulance service has been too low a priority, and several health care companies plan or have cut the ambulance service offer. The volume of work just increases — we are becoming more and more people in this country — while the number of ambulances is decreasing. In the last 15 years, the volume of the contract has increased by 46 pst. It is a pity that the government parties and the Advance Party have not given higher priority to the prehospital services. In particular, there is a need to look at the situation in District Norway. A few weeks ago, a municipal doctor in Gudbrandsdalen was out there expressing very concern for the development. The government has to return to Stortinget with a prescribed response time to the Blue Light Services, which determines the response times to be applied and the requirements to be set for equipment and professional competence in the services, as proposed by the Red-Green Parties in the configuration. There are too many variations around the country, sail if I will praise very many capable employees in this service. The government must also take control of the base structure of the air ambulance. It is unacceptable that we still have areas in the country that are not reached by medical ambulance helicopters within the recommended response time of 45 minutes. That's the area that I'm representing, that's parts of the Inland. This applies to further parts of Nord-Trøndelag, parts of East-Finnmark and parts of Telemark and East-Agder. I know that there has been some grip, but the Stortinget must be presented with a separate case on this, which must include the Inland and the area Bykle/Vinje. That's where the challenges now are greater. This must be done by next year’s budget at the latest. We are simply impatient. We're going to set up as a society for those who need us the most. It is a characteristic of the Labour Party's policy. But then it's also especially important that we set up, so that people have the security when they need it the most, and when it comes to the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3594	When we or those we're happy with get sick, we expect the help to be close, and that's usually the one. Most of us don't care whether the bill is subsequently sent to the state or to the municipality, or who is providing the necessary health care at all. We have all read about someone – or maybe we know someone – who has experienced being sent back and forth between hospitals and hospitals. We like to call them swing door spacers. Health services have some artificial distinctions, and some people experience being wasteballs in the system. They're sick, they're maybe old, and they often have more illnesses at once. What they have in common is that health care is not adapted to the individual. They would like to see the system stand in the way of a smooth treatment. 1 pst. of the patients represents 22 pst. of the use of resources in Norwegian hospitals. We can do something about this through better treatment where patients live. Cooperation between municipalities and hospitals needs to be improved. This is addressed through the establishment of a health community for municipalities and hospitals, a common platform for planning and developing cooperation. The health communities will help the swing door spaces and help ensure that all choices made are of benefit to the patient. Other patients may experience that the words used, or the messages given, are incomprehensible. It's impossible to say what's important to you if you don't understand what they're talking about. Clear and understandable language is essential for all to be heard and met in a better way. For vulnerable patients with complex needs, the problem is that the health care they receive is the problem. For them, it would be better to be met by an outpatient multidisciplinary team. Others again might not get to the hospital or would get better services if the hospital came home to them. An important part of this plan is therefore that healthcare is more likely to meet patients at home, where they live. Health services that previously required physical attendance may be performed in several cases where the patient lives, using technology. Together, all these measures will help us to get closer to the patient’s healthcare service, where the patient is always put first. This spring we've really seen how good our health care is. I am, like most people, very impressed and grateful for the efforts that all parts of the healthcare have made and are still doing, now that we are in a difficult situation. One of the things I want to boast about is how the municipalities have turned around and provided good treatment, effective medical care and not least protection for the elderly, even if it has given some rent a rash of solitude and isolation. The pandemic has also led to the debate on the national health and hospital plan being marked by preparedness: emergency preparedness, food supply, preparedness for supply and, in particular, pandemic preparedness. That's understandable enough; it's about people's sense of security and our ability to handle the unexpected. The patient’s healthcare also means good emergency care, and it’s mostly about being treated by experienced and competent health professionals when they first need it. We must not forget that most of the activities of specialist health care are not carried out in emergency medicine. Much of what is going on is planned intervention and treatment of chronic disease. Within most disease groups, the drug is under development, specialisation continues in line with this. This may be most prominent in cancer treatment, but rapid developments are taking place in many areas of health care. When you get seriously ill, you don't always look for the nearest hospital – one will do the best. One will have routine, experience and expertise. This does not mean that one should lay down several hospitals, but that means that one should specialise in several departments. Everybody can't get the best in everything, but everyone can get the best at something. I believe that good task allocation and more specialisation are important in order to create good hospital services throughout the country. When we discuss the future hospital in Norway, the patient should be the main person. As many people have been involved, today the International Nursing Day is marked, and the nurses are to be paid for the job they do. It is a prerequisite for good health care at all levels. And as a colleague wrote to me today, what would we do without nurses? Not everyone can preside over big meetings, President! But I also want to strike a blow for the health professionals, and I am pleased that this group is given a lot of attention in the plan. The government is in charge of the plan to set up training offices in all health businesses to put in place more apprentices, and there is really something to be done. It is nice that all batches are behind the National Health and Hospital Plan. This plan provides us with a good basis for better cooperation and new ways to work – for the benefit of Norwegian patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3619	The national health and health plan highlights several different areas. Patient treatment is high, and quality and not least good services are being ensured. In the past, many patients have waited too long for treatment, while there was no capacity at both public and private treatment sites. The Progress Party has been working for several years to strengthen patients’ rights and the freedom of patients to choose their own treatment site. This was also done by free choice of treatment. The Party considers that there is no single reason for people to be in a health queue when there is no capacity available from private operators. Free treatment options were introduced precisely for the benefit of patients. By the end of August 2019, more than 25,000 patients had come to health care more quickly or had their choice to the institution they thought had the best offer. Many patients have been waiting for treatment for a long time, while there has been a lack of capacity. We can't have it that way. The waiting time and the uncertainty it creates have been frustrating for many. Therefore, all measures that help people get treatment faster are a good one, and something that we shared in prioritizing when we were in government, for example. by releasing private actors. The progress party does not want you to have a two-part healthcare service, where only those who can afford it buy themselves out of line. The free choice of treatment allows all patients to receive more rapid treatment and to choose for themselves where to perform the treatment. Personalised medicine will be able to ensure that patients receive a more accurate treatment. We need a system that is flexible and that can take on the enormous development that is taking place in this area. Integrating clinical studies in patient treatment is a prerequisite for the effective participation of several patients in clinical studies. However, it requires a change in both culture and internal priorities. Clinical studies and patient treatment need to be looked at in a more detailed context, particularly in the light of personalised medicine developments and the expectation of making use of reality data. This plan gives a clear direction to how the specialist healthcare service should benefit from technology and how national instruments need to be adjusted to support this. Much attention has been paid to using technologies and new forms of work to move services out of hospitals and closer or home to the patient. That's good because it actually means more freedom to the patient. Artificial intelligence is going to evolve more and more, and you're going to use more of this in the coming years. The use of artificial intelligence together with large health data can contribute to better health care and, in addition, provide a better basis for research and, in particular, innovation. Digitalisation shall not be an end in itself, but it shall be a tool for developing an even better and more developed provision for patients. That's always going to be what's at the center of what you're doing. The Progress Party supports the government in that if the objectives of this plan are to be achieved, we need to think differently about how we work. There is no concealment that just digitisation is an important tool for achieving these objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3640	Access to emergency hospitals and full food supply may be one of the most sensitive issues in the debate on national health and hospital plans. Why? Well, because it's about life's most vulnerable and magical moments. It's about the help we get if there's been a serious accident, or we're hit by acute health problems, like stroke or heart attack. And it's about children being born, about women going through one of the biggest tasks in life. Right now, while we're here, a child is born in Norway. Between 150 and 160 children are born in a Norwegian hospital today, approx. 20 of them just some trip stops away from us here in Oslo. Two of them are born at Gjøvik. In the Churches it is not certain that it is a birth today, but it will be tomorrow. In Kristiansund there is probably one child born today, while in Molde there may be one or two. Hospital structure issues are not simple. In these assessments, the Workers' Party will be recognised by being uncompromising in quality. We stand for the fact that in some cases it means that you have to calculate a slightly longer journey to the hospital. The most important thing for us is that women should feed safely. We believe that today's structure is good, and we are in line with the quality requirements we introduced when we were in government. It should be quality and not economics that govern food supply in Norway. The right-hand government has not delivered here. Let me give you three examples: When people wait for a new hospital, you can't start that process of shutting down maternity wards for economic reasons. The food departments in Kristiansund and Molde shall pass to the hospital at Hjelset are clear. Something else is a breach of what the Storing has decided. Women who live far from the hospital have to bring their midwife in the ambulance. But lack of governance and funding has led to this service not being good enough. Last year the VG revealed that 77 municipalities do not have this service in place. Norwegian midwives should not work hard. The working party requires a full position for all midwives, ensuring the safety and professional quality of women born in the districts. Women who have been born must be allowed to lie in hospitals until they are ready to go home – not become more efficient in an increasingly tight hospital economy. We believe that first-time birthers who want to do so should be ensured at least three days at maternity or hospital after birth. The working party is disappointed and surprised at the poor coverage of the food supply in this national health and health plan. We have no overview of which departments are able to meet the target of one-to-one crew, and there is no intervention despite the major failure of the accompanying services for pregnant women. The Labour Party believes it is time to review the food supply in this country. We have to make sure that the offer we have, and the offer we intend to develop further, is in line with professionally up-to-date knowledge. This is also the background to the fact that the Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Center Party, asks the government to draw up a big message that looks at the whole of the food supply. We are asking for this message to address the proximity of food supply, quality and staffing in the maternity ward, follow-up before and after birth, the funding system for midwives and the transitions between the specialist health service and the community health service. As I said at the outset, the Labour Party is uncompromising on quality. It is the skilled professionals who are critical to the quality of Norwegian maternity care. Our concern is that many of these professionals now say that they will leave their post because the labour pressure is too high. Three out of ten midwives at Stavanger University Hospital have said that they consider ending, five out of ten midwives at Drammen Hospital, six out of ten midwives at Aarhus – these are the same figures as we see at St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim. These are alarming numbers. Through our alternative budgets, we in the Workers' Party have shown that we are taking the fight for a better offer to all the country's midwives seriously. We want to end the practice where the maternity wards get less paid when the births have gone well, because we need that preparedness in place if the next woman has complications. We want to give all midwives in the municipalities a full position because the follow-up service can be what determines whether the woman has a safe birth or not. We want to stop the chronic underfunding of our hospitals because it is not possible that women are kept at home for so long that they end up being born outside the hospital. Finally, I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate all nurses, including the President, on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3665	Thank you for the congratulations!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3670	The national health and hospital plan will continue to point to the next four years of our common healthcare. A central area in this way is mental health protection. The Korona epidemic has challenged our healthcare in almost all ways, including mental health protection and drug use. It is good that the Council of State has tried to signal this offer as best as possible, but we know that the activity has fallen, that low-threshold offers have been closed, and we are at risk that more people will get bigger challenges now and in the future, and in the worst case we will be able to find them again in the suicide statistics. It is good if more people get good help where they live, but some people also need more extensive follow-up and help. Bed places in psychiatry have been built up in the last decades by several thousand places. It's been a real turn that you've gone from the specialist health service to the municipality, and that people can get a follow-up where they live, but we have to ask ourselves if this may not have gone too far now, or at least far enough. So under this right-hand rule, we've got 800 fewer beds in psychiatry. The NRK was able to report in January this year that the hospital Eastfold had so many patients in the field of mental health protection that they had to use accommodation offices. The trust selected warned that they saw patients who were being discharged too early and employees who stopped because they were no longer working. In November 2018, the NRK reported that the psychiatric clinic at Sandviken Hospital in Bergen had had over 300 corridor Asians that year. Then the clinic director in Health Bergen said that ‘lying in a corridor bed is terrible, but if the option is that they kill themselves, this is better’. In addition, we know that e.g. Finland’s health centre, due to a lack of economics, has had to close out out the outreach teams in the field of mental health protection, measures that can prevent the need for accommodation. Already last year, the Workers' Party proposed to stop the construction of additional beds. Other opposition parties had similar suggestions. Lifts given if the golden rule has not been followed up by this government. It affects some of the most vulnerable. And together with the SV and the Center Party, we are today promoting new proposals to stop this downgrading of bed places, as well as a real escalating plan for the psychiatry. Unfortunately, the government and the Progress Party are voting against, despite the fact that the Minister of Health in his speech is clearly concerned about this group. Another field I would like to talk about is rehabilitation. The Health Directorate came in 2018 with a report on rehabilitation. SAMDATA Analysis Note No. 8/2018 said, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘In recent years, there has been a gradual decrease in the number of patients who have received rehabilitation in the specialist healthcare system.’ At the same time, the report concluded that it is difficult to track similar build-up in municipal health services, such as drug use and psychiatry. It is good if more people can get good help where they live, but it is not good if – and when – more people fall between two chairs. Good rehabilitation is good for the quality of life of individuals, and in many cases it is also very profitable for society when people can do better themselves when people can do more work. I am concerned that this government is not taking habilitation and rehabilitation very seriously, either in a new national health plan or in today's proposal for a new revised national budget. The Korona epidemic also creates new needs for more rehabilitation. Both the lungs, the heart and the physical and mental health can get a severe pressure on those who are severely affected by the virus. When I recently asked the Minister of Health a written question about the government's plan to train this group, his answer – briefly summed up – was that this did not have time for him or the health service to work with right now. With the government's proposed municipal economy revised, at least the municipalities are not better able to take this promise, and we are only at risk that even more people who need good practice fall between two chairs: the state and the municipality. Finally, I would like to talk a little bit about lack of medicine. We have had an explosive increase in that field in recent years, from 191 cases in 2016 to 1,245 cases this year, and we expect a new increase in the current year. Last year, the working party promoted its own proposal to address the issue of vulnerability to drug shortages. Unfortunately, the government and the Progress Party voted against this proposal. I see that there will now be some grip on the revised budget. It is good that we are now following up some of the proposals that the Labour Party had last year. It's a shame we've lost a year on the way. I also think it is a pity that the government parties today do not support the proposals that the opposition is promoting in order to take further notice of arming us against the vulnerability we are now facing, in view of the lack of medicinal products in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3692	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3698	If there's one thing we can cut off on the block that's positive after the last few weeks' demanding situation, it's that many young people look at the health sector and want a training course in different fields in the sector, and that's good. Young people have seen the importance and importance of the health sector for society, and they want to be part of the important function in the future. Then we have to be able to follow up with places of study in our entire service. The lack of nurses is great. Too many disappear from the profession, and then it's also a political responsibility to see why it happens. The pandemic has shown us that many nurses who are working elsewhere have signed up for service. Let's ask them what they're going to do to make them. It's not that much worse than that. We may know many of the answers in advance. It may be over-reliance on too few colleagues on each watch, it may be wages, and it may simply be too demanding a turn. At least let's not miss that chance now that we have it. At the same time, we should take the opportunity to thank for an extraordinary effort. Like the Council of State, I want a more extroverted specialist health service. Children who are chronically ill, or become acutely ill, may experience that hospitals seem frightening. The fact that, in the future, specialist healthcare may have a more child-friendly perspective on treatment is desirable. Like the Minister of Health, we want to see if we can treat several sick children at home with ambulance teams, teams traveling around. We're on, but we have to do more. If the specialist health service were to be more extroverted, as an adult, I would wish for more modern forms of communication. I don't think primarily of electronic journals, it's a separate chapter that also needs to become more user-friendly, but it's not many years since it was undisputed with chat or web meetings for the banking community. Confidential information about customers and the relationships they have with their bank is not entirely different to that of a specialist health service. Finally, congratulations on the day of nurses! Florence Nightingale would have been 200 years today. Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3717	One of the reasons I got involved in politics was the provision of health care to the inhabitants of the most young part of Finnmark, or more correctly: lack of health care for the inhabitants. This has led me to be contacted by many desperate patients and relatives who have felt it on the body and are insecure. Yesterday I spoke to a lady who told me that they had become great-grandparents of a beautiful, well-made boy, and for that they are so incredibly grateful. I would like to re-enact her story and hope that the Health Minister and the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Right are able to get into the situation and reflect on what they would have done if the story had happened to some of their closest and dearest, and that they feel the despair and insecurity that many people know about as a result of a lack of health care – something that the Right and Workers' Party can help to improve. Five days ago, on May 7th, there was, as very often, the crossing of Sennaland, the crossing between Alta and Hammerfest, a mountain crossing that has had 48 closures and 86 column runs from 1 October last year until today. In addition, the distance is rv. 94 from Kvalsund to Hammerfest had 30 closures and 16 column runs during the same period. Their granddaughter came to Alta near-sickness as a first-born and already had a 2 cm opening. The midwife tried to get hold of the ambulance, but they were already on their way to Hammerfest with other patients, and no one was available. The midwife then asks them to drive by private car to Hammerfest, a distance of 140 km, in storms of collapsing, without a midwife or any other health care professional available, only a anxious young father who has enough to follow the rear lights of the bridge car. The young grandfather had never crossed Sennaland before. They wait for the next column and don't know when it's going, while the young growing mother has stronger and stronger riding. They were alive at home, too. Old mother felt totally powerless and went over 4,000 steps in the living room before the young couple reached Hammerfest. You never know what can happen to a firstborn. When the young couple came to Akkarfjord, the water went, and understandably they became even saviors. Luckily, they got there. Then the birth was well-timed, and they had to put the epidural immediately. The situation was very critical. Prime Minister Solberg, in his New Year's speech in 2019, called on the Nordics to make more children, and the Prime Minister felt there was reason to ask whether it was too difficult to have children in the past. Now I've described the reality of Finnmark in 2020, a reality that makes many women hesitate to give birth to more children – a situation that is all too often the rule and not the exception. It's a lot of luck that made this go well. The only prayer the newly-baked grandmother would I have to convey is, please, let's get the maternity ward in Alta. This is madness.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3732	I want to praise all the parties – the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Workers' Party – who are helping to ensure that children have more control over their own information when they meet psychologists and psychiatrists. Sharing personal and heavy secrets is difficult for everyone. Four out of five of the Psychiatric Health Professionals at the Change Factory say they haven't told you the worst thing that can be the real reason they need help. One important reason is that they're worried that the information can go further, they say. That means that the help they get will be much less useful. Then the system needs to get better so that more people can get better help. The entire Committee asks the Government to ensure that it is safe for children to share bad experiences and that the child is in control of his or her own information. The entire Committee agrees that thorough training should be provided in the exceptional provisions, and provision should be made for healthcare professionals to have both time and space to make these important assessments. Sometimes we see a bust banging on the Stortinget. But here, now, we've been working together to secure and help children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3743	The word ‘Babcock’ has created an enormous commitment, a lot of criticism and concerns among the population, especially in North Norway. But the air ambulance crisis we've been in also shows how much this healthcare means to people's safety. Norway is a long-distance country. Fortunately, we have a pretty well-developed air ambulance service, but there are still some spots on the map where it takes too long when the seconds count. It seems that the government is now taking hold and strengthening helicopter preparedness in the north with a permanent base in the Kirkenes. It's positive. Then the Inland and the interior parts of Agder and Telemark remain. Bykle and Vinje are two municipalities with some of the longest distances for ambulance helicopters today. There are two municipalities with relatively few residents, but with thousands of cabins, especially on Hovden and Rauland. Only Hovden can become a city about the size of Grimstad in the high season – cabin dwellers who ski, run slums and perform activities that are good for public health but also have a slightly higher risk of accidents. I am therefore pleased that in the Committee it appears to be a majority who will make the following proposals: ‘The government asks to return to Stortinget with its own case on the base structure of the air ambulance in Norway, which must include the Inland and Bykle/Vinje, at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2021.’ Unfortunately, the parties to the government do not agree with this proposal. I hope they will still follow it up loyally if it is adopted at Stortinget this week, for the matter is about people's security for life and health. Not only Setesdal and West Telemark, but large parts of South Norway will be able to enjoy an air ambulance base in Vinje or Bykle, as a helicopter there will also serve as backup for other parts of South Norway. It is also district policy. At a time when regional amputation has increased, where the response time for the ambulance service is a challenge and where centralisation is perceived as a threat, it will be an important signal that good health services are also being provided where distances are unfortunately long to the nearest hospital. People are as important no matter where they live, and people bleed as fast in Bykle as in Kristiansand or Oslo. I hope that today – or on Thursday, when we are going to vote on the matter – we can take a step forward in giving those parts of the country that do not have good enough and fast enough access to emergency health care, better preparedness by continuing the air ambulance service.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3761	The next speaker is Jon Georg Dale, then Tor André Johnsen. No, the next guy is Bengt Rune Strifeldt – but with Jon Georg Dale first. Here you go!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3766	I began to wonder if I had done something wrong before I got the word!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3771	You'll get the chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3776	Thank you so much for that, President. After several years and repeated torches and demonstrations last, the Workers' Party led a government in this country, on the proposal to put down important emergency and food supply, we finally got the tool National Health and Hospital Plan. It gave the Storting the opportunity to look at the structure and organisation of the health sector as a whole, in a way that would enable one to take important care of all places in the country to take care of the most important services that people need. If not all will at least the majority agree that many services can specialise and centralize. But services that are acute are defined as that because in most cases people can't choose. It is a matter of quickly arriving at a necessary supply to preserve life and health, whether it relates to emergency functions or to debt, such as: in Kristiansund, provision of food. Since the Labour Party has spent years using each election campaign to point to first the one and then the other who will not ensure the provision of food in Kristiansund, they are almost as missing from the debate today. One might say a lot strange about the Right, but the Right has been honest about the position they've had there all along. What the Labour Party does once again today is that, after looking for years, they start off in the few cases that the Stortinget has the ability to actually address these kinds of decisions. The representatives from More and Romesdal haven't been exorcising all day, they're like socks in the earth. But I'm absolutely sure that we'll see them as it approaches choices again. That's how the Workers' Party has run the hospital debate, in the counties after the county, for too long. But today they're pretty exposed – taken with your pants down, if you want. The problem with this is that it is the local people who have trusted them, who unfortunately have to bear the burden – in several cases, as well as in Kristiansund. The conflict will continue, year in and year out, because the Labour Party did not use the opportunity when they had it. The argumentation and rhetoric work on the first side of Time's Requirements and in election struggles, but not in the reality of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3789	For a long time, there have been several issues related to the lack of health services in Alta. For the Progress Party, the security of the inhabitants is the most important thing. The Minister of Health has made it clear that geographical and local policy considerations must be more weighty, and the signals from the Minister took the Progress Party seriously. It is therefore shocking that there does not seem to be any support for setting up an emergency and maternity ward at Klinik Alta through the treatment of this case. We were disappointed when the desire of the Progress Party for an investigation into hospital structure in West Finland was voted down in the Stortinget in 2017, but when the Minister of Health has established other principles for hospital structure in other parts of the country, we look to new hope. The Progress Party therefore supports proposals in the Stortinget to establish the Emergency and Food Department in Alta. I notice that it's probably not going to get a majority, and I'm responding to that. The Advance Party called early for a good offer for the people of West Finland by establishing food and emergency function at Klinik Alta. I am not surprised that the Labour Party does not agree with itself, and that national politicians are going against locals, but I am very disappointed. The Labour Party has the rapporteur in Alta, yet they fail the local people and their own in this way. The working party has been engaged in double communication in this matter for a long time. In March, Vice President Schläran said that they were not going to support any of our proposals. In April Kjerkol of the Workers' Party said they were going to support some of the proposals. Now they are failing the people of West Finland and their own local politicians. In 2008, Health Nord adopted the introduction of a level-sharing of intensive activities in the region. For the Finnmark Hospital, the decision meant that Hammerfest Hospital would have a level 2 intensive activity, while the Kirkenes would have a level 1 intensive activity. Due to distance and climatic conditions, it is very important that the hospital in Kirkenes can also perform respiratory therapy for several days pending transport or until the time when the patient does not need respiratory support. We are very pleased that our proposal that the hospital in the Churches should have a level 2 intensive activity has a majority in the Stortinget, so that they are equipped to provide the necessary services when the need arises. It is an important victory and a security for the people of East Finland. The progress party has also worked well and long to establish a permanent ambulance helicopter in the Kirkenes and a jet plane stationed in Tromsø. We are therefore pleased that the health minister has listened, taken our concerns seriously and ordered the health company to establish a permanent ambulance helicopter in Kirkenes. It will improve the offer considerably and provide security for the inhabitants not only in the churches, but throughout East Finland. I should like to support the Workers' Party's proposal, which could provide security and improve the offer considerably for the inhabitants of West Finland.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3810	It is important for any nation to provide preparedness, security and security for the population. It is ensured not only by having a good and strong defence and police, but also by having a good health care and availability of sufficient medicines and vaccines. As the world has become more and more global, national production and stocks of both drugs and vaccines have been reduced or reduced to a minimum. It has made us very vulnerable, and access to medicine has also been restricted due to high demand global and limited production. Today, both Norway and large parts of Europe are dependent on getting a lot of medicines from Asia. Large distances and long distances have made us even more vulnerable, but it is only now in times of crisis that we really see how vulnerable we are, and how dependent we are on individual producers and individual nations to ensure that the Norwegian people have sufficient access to the necessary medicines and vaccines. Fortunately, this has now been made visible due to the coronary crisis, and it is important to provide sufficient capacity in Norway both in terms of production and in terms of the stock of important medicines and vaccines. Several actors in Norway can contribute to national production, one of which is formerly Nycomed, now Curida, in Elverum. I have visited the company myself on several occasions, with various government councils, including the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister. I recently asked the Minister of Health about the extent to which there is a dialogue between the Norwegian authorities and Curida on cooperation to ensure the production of important medicines and vaccines in Norway. I was confirmed that through healthcare companies and the Swedish Medical Products Agency, a dialogue has been established with Curida on the possibilities Curida has for local production in Norway. It is gratifying to note that we have a health minister who understands the importance of making us less vulnerable and less dependent on imports, and that the Minister has ensured that there is already a dialogue with Norwegian actors to ensure the production of medicines in Norway. But it's important that it's not just a dialogue. In the Advancement Party, we are impatient. This is why, among other things: our excellent health spokesperson, Mr Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, made several proposals – together with the opposition, as we appreciate it – and we expect action, and we expect concrete results for the proposals we are promoting. Because progress in these matters is important, so that we can get an agreement in place to start production in Norway, among other things. at Curida, Elverum.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3822	The interaction reform introduced in 2012 and the many package processes introduced by this government have shown that the cooperation between hospitals and municipalities has not always worked as well as it should. Many patients have reported transitions from hospitals to community health services that have not been as seamless as we want them to be. Therefore, the government launches 19 health communities through the National Health and Hospital Plan. Through the health communities hospitals and municipalities should view each other as partners and not as parties. Health communities will become arenas where hospitals and municipalities will meet to find good solutions to make health services even more holistic and transitions seamless. Then it turns out that a few places in the country the health community is in conflict with the municipal reform and recently merged municipalities. Holmestrand is an example of that, where those who live in the former Sande municipality seemed to be transferred from the hospital in Drammen to the hospital in Tønsberg, which the inhabitants perceive as both unnatural and unacceptable. We have a great understanding of this in the Right. We are also concerned that the municipalities should implement good decisions locally as far as possible. That is why we are listening to the local government in Holmestrand, which wants a shared solution, and we are taking part in the committee's proposal, where it is among other things. states that ‘The government is asked to place a decisive emphasis on local policy demands’. ICT security is very important. The data breach health south-east was exposed two years ago, showed that the network was not as secure as it should be. The SV and the Central Party propose that only the State operate ICT systems, giving the impression that only the State can take care of the necessary ICT security. It is not that employees in municipalities and countries are more able to trust than employees in private business. There are enough examples of cheating servants both here and there. The important thing is not whether it is public or private that develops and operates our ICT systems, but whether those who work on them are security-cleared and that they work under a good security regime. We need private suppliers to provide innovation and innovation. In the National Health and Hospital Plan, the government describes several measures to strengthen ICT security. It says, among other things: a clearer national governance and coordination of ICT developments. It is also planned that digital security work will have to be seen in the context of other work on social security. It is therefore essential that all actors, both public and private, cooperate to meet the digital security challenges. It is the Directorate for eHealth and the National Safety Authority that has the overall responsibility for the ICT security of the healthcare system. It does not matter whether the supplier is employed in the public or in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3835	The Central Party believes that we must have a new direction in food policy in Norway, where we have quality requirements, but where we are aware that good quality is not the same as having a large food department. The size went beyond such a comparison in 2008-2009, with the previous staging message – it should no longer be based on the number of births, but one should set quality requirements for the services depending on whether it was classified as a food source, a food department or a food clinic, so that one should be sure of quality whether it was 300 births or 3,000 births. This has worked, there are many local hospitals with good maternity wards that do not have so many births. There may be only one hour between these hospitals, but it works, and people are happy. It's actually at the large food clinics one today can be most concerned about quality, also because there are very many births, the inflammation is small, and the additions are relatively few. Then there has been a hard debate especially between the Progress Party and the Labour Party today. I agree with the Progress Party that it is incomprehensible that the Workers' Party will not give women in Northern Ireland the same proximity to the food supply as they want and have gone in for, among other things. on Helgeland. One has also been on the Labour Party's page for only a few months since the vote on the proposal that a non-food supply should be stopped in Norway. But to the Progress Party, I would say that it is also incomprehensible that they are fighting on Helgeland to shut down the maternity ward, i.e. having only one common hospital, while there is a completely different policy from the Progress Party on the North Sea and in Alta. It's not bound either. It cannot be that a person has different hospital policies, depending on where one has the strongest community, there must be an overarching direction of hospital policy and on what policies one has for the care of the child. So to what the Health Minister addressed in his reply. I would again like to refer to the ROS analysis for the general hospital, which was quite clear that it was not good to build down the department and shut down the department before the new hospital was in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3846	The national health and hospital plan states that the population is well covered by ambulance helicopters. About 98 pst. the population is reached by a helicopter crew member within 45 minutes. It's a significantly better coverage than the target of 90 pst. The plan also says that there are some population-rich areas that are not reached by the medical helicopter within the recommended time. The members of the Committee from the Government Parties note that there are still areas in Norway which are not reached within the time limit for the evacuation of ambulance helicopters. Demographic changes have occurred since the adoption of the base structure, suggesting that the base structure should be reconsidered. The members of the Committee from the Government Parties therefore ask the Government to review any new bases for ambulance helicopters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3853	Let me first clarify a matter from the Center Party: when it comes to Helgeland, the Progress Party was clear that it wanted to gather planned operations into one joint hospital to ensure quality there. We also wanted to provide a maternity ward in Mo, south of the Korg Mountain, and in Brønnøy. In Helgeland, there will also be good coverage in the provision of food. I want to get a little touch on what the Left's representative said, because I have to say that I was very surprised. This concerns the shared hospital solution in Holmestrand. Holmestrand is a merged municipality consisting of three old municipalities that have had a relationship with two different local hospitals. In the Health and Care Committee, we have agreed that whether this is the way to organise hospitalisation should be determined locally, so that if Holmestrand's local government wishes unanimously to continue with a shared hospital solution, where the inhabitants of the new merged municipality can at any time use the nearest local hospital, they will be allowed to do so. But the representative from the Left was clear here, that he strongly disagreed. So what we need answers to -- well, those who are responsible for voting as well -- is whether the Left will vote against the unanimous vote of the Health and Care Committee. In addition, Left's Carl-Erik Grimstad was very clear that Left should be a guarantor of good health in Alta. What we also need to answer is whether the Group of the Left will then support the proposal of the Progress Party and of the Central Party. That would make me happy. Unfortunately, the left is not big enough to make up a majority; we're still dependent on some major parties. But it would also be clarifying to know. Today, the food departments of the future are determined – here and now, in this matter. The rapporteur of the Labour Party in Alta has guaranteed a hospital in Alta in 2023. She has even said that if Health Nord does not build the maternity ward, she will be ready for the spa if she is still rapporteur. The citizens who voted for the Workers' Party in Alta have been deceived. In Kristiansund there is another rapporteur from the Labour Party. Now they have to sit and watch this live broadcast and see that the Workers' Party alone is responsible for that it will not be a maternity ward in Kristiansund. People should notice that you should not always listen to what they say, but look at what they do. We do not get a majority for all our proposals in this Chamber, unfortunately. What we get a majority for is to continue a maternity ward in Kristiansund until the joint hospital in More and Romesdal is finished. But Bent Höie, our Minister of Health, has unfortunately expressed that we cannot tell our citizens that they can be sure of it, because if Bent Höie believes that the quality is not good enough – which he is in so far with all the tools to do something about, in one direction or another – it is still not going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3866	The representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3871	The Health Minister stated in the reply that there are not enough births in West Finland. It may be wrong to involve facts in the debate, but I choose to do it anyway. In the regions of Alta, Karasjok, Kautokeino and Loppa there are 284 births this year. If you add the nearest municipalities in Nord-Troms, which will get shorter journeys than today – today you have to go to UNN, the University Hospital of North Norway – to Alta, you have to increase the number of births to over 350. In fact, they are also within the same region after the regional reform. It will provide a significantly shorter route for people in the North Troms. By comparison, the region around Hammerfest has 203 births and the Church Hospital, which has a fully-fledged maternity ward, 228 births. So there are births enough to set up a maternity ward in Alta as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3876	It might come as a surprise to the representative Bruun-Gundersen that the Left is going to vote with the government, but that's the way it is. As far as Holmestrand is concerned, my point was that we regard this as part of the basis for the decisions that need to be taken in health care companies. According to the Health Business Act, this is a matter that needs to be properly investigated before considering it. I just repeat what I said in my post, that I perceive this as a big business. The proposal might be a good one, it might be a good one, but the problem is that now we're investing $3 billion. kr in Tønsberg – and the buildings are soon finished. If you drain the hospital in Tønsberg for economics, it goes quickly the way that specialist health competence follows in the same direction, and I cannot find that as a representative of that part of Vestfold in without further ado. I hope, on the other hand, that this will work out for the best of all parties. Then I can't help noticing that no one has spoken about, when you talk about sending patients northwards to the Drammen, that there isn't even a departure from the E18 and into the new hospital in the Drammen. Maybe you should have thought about that before you start conducting the patient flow northwards. As far as Alta is concerned, it is interesting that the Progress Party in the government did not lift a single finger to strengthen the emergency and food supply there. But once the Progress Party is out of prison, the support comes. It was a little late.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3887	I will not withdraw the debate, but after the representatives of the Progress Party have turned to the great heights of the pulpit, there are some clarifications that need to be put in place. Politicians should be judged by what they do, not just what they say. The Labour Party promised Klinik Alta when we had the Minister of Health. Today, Klinik Alta is ready – a strengthening of specialist health services in the population-rich part of Finnmark. Of course – had we started at zero in Finnmark, the hospital structure could look different. It doesn't. In East Finland we have a split new Church Hospital, and in June there is a marked spastique in the earth for new Hammerfest hospitals. The working party wants to develop the specialist health offer in Alta. We also want Alta to be considered a natural location when you go on and strengthen the psychiatry offer for the Finns. They have a worse offer today than the rest of the country. They don't have the possibility of emergency positioning. This has been agreed upon by Stortinget in the past. In the case of Kristiansund, there's a bad and bitter fight. There's growing up people who don't remember anything else a hospital war on the North Sea. In 2010, the government then decided to assemble the two hospitals, Molde and Kristiansund, into one joint hospital, and Health Minister Bent Höie placed the hospital at the Health Centre in 2014. The case has been dealt with by both the judiciary and the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs of the European Parliament. I want to end with some reflections. What is it that provides an equivalent health care service? Yes, these are professional criteria, professional requirements. Then we'll make sure you get the same service across the country. And then it's the approach to professionals. It's a limited resource. These good professionals can't work 24 hours a day 365 days a year either. I have looked at both the Central Party and the Advance Party Hospital Budget, and there is no room for more emergency hospitals in any of them. There is also no room for more places to study so that we can get more of these professionals to fill the possible new emergency hospitals. So I think politicians have to be judged by what they do, not just what they say. And when the Advance Party accuses the Workers' Party of being taken with their pants down, I just have to remind the Advance Party that they forgot their pants in the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3904	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3909	At least I have to remind the representative from the Left that Holmestrand does not bottle the new hospital in Tønsberg for the patient base. Old Sande municipality has been part of the population base for the dimensioning of Drammen Hospital. These parts of the new Holmestrand municipality also now have different medical care, and those who live near the hospital and the bodyguard in the Drammen, use the bodyguard in the Drammen. It would be absurd if the residents of old Sande were to go to the medical ward at the Drammen hospital, but had to be sent to the hospital in Tønsberg if they needed further accommodation – when they were already in a hospital! Therefore, a shared solution makes sense, and I am glad that the Left has actually corrected everything they said initially, and that they support the committee's setting also of a shared hospital solution in Holmestrand. In the case of Alta, the Workers' Party proposed in its time Alta near-sickness. Klinik Alta was created under a government with the Advance Party and Right in, and the Advance Party has fought for Alta Hospital on several occasions. Now there's a historic opportunity to implement it. The representative from the Left has the opportunity to support us in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3916	The representative Kjersti Top has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3922	To the representative Kjerkol's last statement and that the central party's budget does not contain such a commitment as we would like: it is not correct. Together with the Workers' Party, we have far more resources for hospitals than the government has, and it's not that building a new large hospital is cheaper than having two smaller hospitals. One can't prove such a gain, but on the other hand, it can turn out to be more expensive, i.e. a burden of scale. We had a thorough review of this in the previous treatment of national health and hospital plans. We believe that preparedness should pay off and not that input-driven funding should be continued at department level, or at each individual hospital. This will also make it easier to pass on to small birth departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3927	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3944	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-12.ana.ud252e3950	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It has not happened, and the meeting has been cancelled.
