ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e22	The Green Group in the Greens/European Parliament has asked for a permit to be granted to the representative of Une Bastholm in the days of 6 and 7 October. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative of Une Bastholm, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of Oslo, Kristoffer Robin Haug, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e49	Kristoffer Robin Haug is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e56	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today, and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg. Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of today's meeting. From the Prime Minister's office, there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 5 October 2020, concerning changes among the State Secretaries: ‘In the Council of State at the Royal Palace on 5 October 2020 at 5 p.m. In 1430, the following decision was taken: State Secretary Jan-Christian Kolstø is pardoned as Secretary of State for the Council of State Iselin Nybø in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. State Secretary Grunde Klekte Almeland, who is currently in the 50 percent position of the State Council Iselin Nybø in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries and in the 50 percent position of the Council of State Guri Melby in the Ministry of Knowledge, is hereby dismissed as Secretary of State Nybø in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries and is re-appointed as State Secretary in the 100 percent position of Council of State Melby in the Ministry of Knowledge. Partner Anne Tørå Solsvik is appointed State Secretary to the Guri Melby State Council of the Ministry of Knowledge. The amendments to points 1 to 3 shall be made with effect from 5 October 2020 at 1 p.m. 3:00 p.m. ‘... The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e89	The representative, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e94	On behalf of the representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to strengthen patients' rights and simplify patient travel regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e99	The representative, Geir Pollestad, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e105	On behalf of Emilie Enger Mehl, Kjersti Toppe, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on better labelling of foodstuffs. On behalf of Marit Arnstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a strong law to secure Norwegian ownership of the forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e112	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will state that today's meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e132	Before the summer, I explained to the government’s work on the coronary apathy, on the government’s contingency plan and that targeted local infectious diseases measures more than national measures could help businesses to maintain their activity. We now see that local authorities have rapidly and effectively eliminated local outbreaks, following advice from the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute. As a result, the government has been able to move forward with careful national relief. This isn't obvious. In most countries, infection is now increasing, and in most countries, infection prevention measures are more stringent than in Norway. I want to thank everyone who still contributes to the work, those who make it possible to keep control, and that makes it possible to keep our society more open. The Minister of Health and Health will give a separate statement to the Stortingen on where the work is located. There he will go into the current situation and the handling of the virus more thoroughly. This year's census is the first in a new decade. It makes it natural to raise your eyes and look forward to 2030. The 2020 years must be the decade when we solve the climate challenge, where we fulfil our obligations under the Paris Agreement, where we take care of the seas and achieve the sustainability goals. The 2020 years must also be the decade when we succeed in creating a sustainable welfare society in Norway, where everyone who can and will work is included, where we create enough values to fund well-being, and where we do not push the bill over to future generations. This is an ambitious goal. They won't be reached in a year, but we have to go out the course now and move in the right direction. In order to ensure a sustainable welfare society, the government will create more and include more. The best way to combat differences and inequalities is to make sure that anyone who can get into work. High employment increases the value creation and well-being of all. A school of knowledge and mastery is absolutely fundamental. Completed secondary education is of great importance for getting to work. It's a pleasure that completion goes up. Among those who started in 2013, the proportion that completes is six percentage points higher than among those who started in 2006. The proportion has now reached 78 pst. The government's goal is that by 2030, nine out of ten students will complete and pass. We need to work purposefully so that even more people can complete and participate in the labour market. The education promise for 2020 is important to take Norway out of the crisis and is based precisely on our goal of better implementation. 5 500 new places of study are made available for specialised schools, colleges and universities. The government has prioritised study places where Norway will have major needs in the future: in teacher training, technology, health and ICT. Flexible decentralised studies shall be established. Competence shall become more accessible throughout the country and in all life situations. The government will implement the competence reform. Our goal is that no one should go out on a date in our working life, and a number of measures will come in the future: trade schools will have to offer shorter offers. We need a new strategy for higher vocational education. We're going to have increased study capacity, a better adapted training provision for people at work, we're going to further develop the competence programme, we're going to have legal obligations for county councils on career guidance for everyone, and we're going to develop tripartite cooperation with the social partners just to know where the shoe prints, to make sure that we give all the skills they need, so that they don't go out to date. These measures shall facilitate the filling of competences throughout a professional life and facilitate the satisfaction of enterprises with their competence needs. In previous recessions, we have seen people fall out of work for longer periods, some even for good. It has affected older workers. Many have been retired early. Such a solution may be easy to address from time to time, but the costs for individuals and for society are high. If we are to succeed in creating a sustainable welfare society, we need to work longer, not shorter. Today, therefore, I will be allowed to make a strong call to the country’s employers in today’s situation: Do not use early retirement in the current situation. This will affect Norway in the long term. Economic setbacks also affect those exposed to the labour market. All the experience shows that it is difficult to get a job once you have fallen outside. This is why the government has taken the initiative in an integration promise to help people who come to Norway get into work more quickly and get better skills when they get in, but also to include them in order to help all those who for various reasons in their life have been given a pass on the CV or have disabilities or other things that may not be seen in the same way by an employer. The way back may be too long if you have been outside for a long time. Newcomers and people with CV holes or disabilities often need support to find their way back. It can be a good health offer. That's why we want to create patients' health care. Sometimes people just need to get the chance to show them what they can do. They need an employer who dares to bet. But it doesn't happen by itself. Close, powerful and still high political attention and long-term endurance are needed. A sustainable welfare society in 2030 also depends on the creation of more jobs in the private sector. That is why we need an even more entrepreneurial policy, not a more entrepreneurial policy, a policy that makes it more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs, not less, a policy where access to international European markets becomes safer and is not wasted. I hear – not least when I heard the persuasion yesterday – several who dream of repeating the past mistakes of state-owned industrial travel. It is now soon the 20th anniversary of Statoil's listing, and I can actually recommend the Stoltenberg government's justification for inviting private owners into Statoil. State ownership was neither a necessary nor appropriate tool to achieve policy objectives, it was thought. The listing would make the company more efficient, making decisions that serve the value creation. The competitive power would be strengthened. The Stoltenberg government summarised it as it did 20 years ago: private joint owners would better safeguard the interests of the community. I totally agree. Therefore, this government's policy is that the state should join with private people when we are going to further develop Norwegian business, together with private ones, through measures such as: Nysnø, Presåkornfonds and Seed Fund, but also state ownership of some companies. Then the state is going to do its job in the areas where it's most important for business that we do the good job, that's to make sure that we train, provide skills and stimulate research and development. There, this government has shown that it is possible to raise research activity in Norwegian companies, get more money back from the EU's major research funds, help make Norway more robust to the challenges of the future by actually participating in cooperation, but also extracting expertise and knowledge by stimulating that cooperation and giving more money to it. This is why we can now see that, unlike what was said in yesterday's debate, we have a better development in highly skilled business in Norway. That is why we also see that the new instruments launched by the government in the Industry Communication in 2017 are now being used at large. This week I was involved in opening up the new bet in the catapult center on Stord, which was linked to green energy solutions and a test center for it. It's not like some of the Workers' Party's speakers said yesterday, that this government is doing nothing for industry. On the contrary, we have put new tools close to the industry to make sure that we promise knowledge and competence. That is why the SkattenFUNN scheme has been improved, so the catapult centres are present, so the NCE centres have been developed and further developed, and that is why we get the results we can see from more research and development from Norwegian companies. A sustainable welfare society in 2030 assumes that the investments made today lead to more jobs and more value creation in the years to come. Norway has a special relationship with the sea, especially those of us who have grown up close to it. 70 pst. exports were estimated to be sea-based in 2017. Sustainable management of marine and marine resources is also important in order to ensure future jobs. We are now entering the UN's maritime research paths, and increased knowledge is the key to good governance. This was central when in 2018 I took the initiative of the International Panel on Sustainability in the Marine Economy. Many developing countries need to strengthen the management of their marine resources. Norway has expertise and experience in this field. The ‘Have for Development’ assistance programme helps to strengthen development cooperation in sustainable maritime governance. In addition to the fight against overfishing, we are putting work against acidification, acidification, erosion and overcrowding on the agenda. Pure seas are essential for achieving sustainability objectives and for Norway to continue to create values, jobs and food related to the sea. That is why much of what we do in foreign policy and in aid policy is closely related to caring for Norwegian interests, closely linked to the fact that we need to see that we have some common challenges in this world that make bets with others absolutely crucial also for our own value creation and our own well-being. The future of the Norwegian marine industries is now being staggered. The Government has submitted a notification on installations for the capture and storage of carbon. If we succeed, the potential is high for the Norwegian supplier industry and for Norwegian oil and gas industries, which can convert natural gas into, for example, natural gas. hydrogen in a climate-friendly way. In this way, the activity of the major petroleum industry can be significantly extended. Any person engaged in oil and gas workplaces should support redeployment, in addition to those concerned with the importance of climate solutions. Norway is a powerful force in the field of energy. In Europe, the energy market is changing dramatically. Climate targets need to be met, and the EU is a driver. If Norway is still to be a major energy power force in 2030, we need to adapt to a whole new energy market. The government will therefore prepare a hydrogen road map in Norway. The goal is step by step to build a domestic market for the whole value chain, so that we can develop competitive companies that can grow in the energy market of the future. The work will support the government's climate policy. The goal is to have a competitive business life while at the same time meeting the ambitious climate targets for 2030. Green shifts that create green growth mean that new investment needs to be made in many areas, and if there is one thing investment needs, it is profitability and profit. There will be no green shift with the red bottom line. The government will present a climate communication showing how the targets can be achieved. The objectives are to be achieved in a fair way and give us good jobs to live on in the future. It's like what we're facing now with major challenges for Norway over the next decades, we're together with the rest of the world. Some challenges are specific to Norway. The transition from a traditional oil and gas-based economy to a greener economy with safe jobs with new technologies is strange, but the climate challenges, the maritime challenges and our desire for a competitive business life are common to others. Therefore, it is important that we pursue a policy that contributes to the very basic things, such as: that we have to create more and include more. That's the answer to how we carry out a welfare society in the future in Norway too, and then we have to do it together and in cooperation with other countries, for Norway, as a small, open economy, is totally dependent on a good international cooperation that can deliver good solutions for the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e196	The fact that Norway was a society with small differences was emphasised in the census and in the Prime Minister’s speeches. It's an advantage for Norway, it's claimed. I agree. Then the prime minister says it's going in the right direction. What I'm curious to hear, because we've heard this since 2013, is, what are small differences? Is it a static term, or is it actually something developing? The SSB came up with numbers last week that said they with the most, treasure less and earn more. On the property side, Norway now has a wealth inequality in line with the United Kingdom, which we often call a class society. The largest part of this government wants to abolish the property tax, which is the tax that hits them most. So my question to the Prime Minister is, is this with inequality a term she's including in party speeches? Does she want to maintain the inequality as it was in 2013 or is it in 2020, or is it actually alarming that the differences in Norway between them at the top and the rest are increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e205	I think that the absolute biggest challenge of inequality is when groups of people in our society feel that they are outside. They're out of the labour market, or they're out of our community. That's why this government's most important strategy is to lift up those who have challenges, those who are poor, those who are not able to work, those who need help to get it, those who for various reasons are outside. It's seeing the people behind the numbers, and I see the people behind these numbers. I see that if we park people outside of work for a long time, it will lead to fewer who feel that participation in our society. It's a dangerous dynamic force in our society. That's why we do so much to lift both parents of poor children out of a poverty trap, and we take the child into a community through the measures we take. It's our most important work to ensure that we don't get inequalities that get stuck over generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e212	People behind the numbers are, among other things, that the number of young disabled persons has doubled on the watch of this government. When differences increase in Norway, they also occur because they run from the top. It provides less income for the community to have training measures, participation measures and measures to strengthen our educational system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e217	I want to ask the Prime Minister a question about the property tax, which her country meeting wants to liquidate completely. The report that came was the first attempt at research to answer the question: Does the wealth tax lead to new jobs? We have asked and asked in this room, asked this question, and never received an answer. Then the government has ordered a report. It's here. And the report shows a rather different picture. It actually shows that the wealth tax, as it works today, leads to more jobs, and that cuts in wealth tax cannot be documented as leading to more jobs. On the contrary, it increases the differences, and it weakens the income we have to all the measures needed to raise the bottom. But the ones at the top are subtracting. Is that a concern of the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e222	It is important to say what this report says about, and what it says nothing about. Among other things, the researchers have been quite clear, and it says in the report that it does not say anything about the whole of the labour market, so most of the Labour Party's extraction of arguments in the debate we have heard now is not correct, and that is also stated in the report. But what it actually says is that yes, if you have a tax on wealth, that means that money is adapted within businesses. Then you spend a little more money on human capital and a little less on assets within this model. That's probably right, because that means you invest more in the people who work there, and less in the capital. But the report does not say anything about the impact on the labour market and the totality of creating new jobs in a society. And then it becomes important to say that it says it, and then it says something else. It also says that for companies that go poorly, or do not have high earnings, the wealth tax is a burden. That's true of many of the businesses we're going to live on in the future. It's those who are innovative, growing, and who for a long time don't make money, until they might be the new successful thing we're going to live on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e227	I think people see that the differences increase as a result of this. Another interesting find now is that people see that privatization and bipartition are negative for society. Norwegian Monitor shows that the biggest change in attitudes among the Nordics is that they are less skeptical of the community’s taking responsibility, with good regulations that allow one to achieve common goals, and they are more sceptical of privatisation solutions. This is the biggest change of attitude in our country since 2000. People see a two-way distribution of the health system, they see new proposals for privatisation, from rail to care for the elderly. People see that difference. The question I want to ask the Prime Minister is: how does she assess this change in attitudes? Is there something people discover in their everyday lives, and as they see in the policy being pursued, that actually leads to that this is not taking Norway in the right direction? That division is a contribution to making differences. That division increases the difference between people in what they serve, where they live, and how our society connects. Is that a concern of the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e232	I'm very concerned that we have good public funded welfare schemes. That means I'm not in favour of privatising the welfare systems in Norway. But I am concerned that we should have freedom of choice and more that can offer those welfare schemes. I think, for example, that when older people are given the opportunity to choose who comes to their homes to help them, it gives them strength in the situation in which they are in. It makes older people who need help with the most intimate things have greater power in their own lives. When I meet users who have just received it, they say that this freedom of choice has a value in itself, and then they can make some demands instead of just waiting for the system to decide, and that you have to adapt to how the municipality always makes its rotational arrangements. When I meet users who have received new treatments in psychiatry, who are now helping them to survive, while they were previously being forced to take their own lives, I am impressed by what we can do with more freedom of choice, more control over their own lives, and getting new offers. And when, for example, The Finnmark Collective – instead of being abandoned, as the representative Gahr Støre tried to do when he was Minister of Health – is now growing and growing, it is actually an advantage for the Norwegian community, even if it is not under public control.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e237	The Prime Minister spoke about industrial policy and state ownership and about not repeating the mistakes of the past, and she went to 2000, when Statoil got private partners. She did not go to 1970, when Statoil was created. If you had asked the questions in the mid-1960s, "Can Norway find oil and gas on the base? Should we set up a state-owned company?’ would the Right say, ‘No, don’t repeat the mistakes of the past.’ Statoil was a wise move. It was wise in 2000 to make a change in ownership. Many countries now see, in response to the major challenges of technology – not least the green shift – that we need a state that is modern, that takes co-responsibility, makes demands and makes demands, demands for ring-fences, demands for technology, demands for long-term capital, demands for the replacement. It's modern. It's old-fashioned to have ideological skyscrapers and say that where the state is the joint owner, where the state contributes, we're put back. On the contrary: this is now the bearer in the many European countries and the democratic candidate in the United States says and proposes. Why is the Prime Minister so afraid that the community will enter and take responsibility and support the private companies that will be involved in this great shift?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e243	Now the representative Gahr Støre must speak against better knowledge. The government is not afraid to help private companies to take these big technological approaches. I've just been to the pulpit and I've been talking about the catapult centers. There are new forms of financing for export credit. We put forward an export strategy early on the morning quask today. We're doing a lot to help companies do this. We see the role of the state, to help with our instruments, with research, development and technology. Then we have justified state ownership that we should ensure that in some of the major businesses – with important technological knowledge levels and environments that we need for development – we have a controlling, statutory majority that means that we cannot make large operational movements. It's another thing to say that we're going to have an activistic policy, where we're going to go in and give advantages to state-owned companies or operate with unyielding governance of areas, as it sounds like -- and I say it sounds like -- that Jonas Gahr Støre is now in his rhetorical position.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e250	I agree with a lot of what the Prime Minister reflected around sustainable welfare societies, but I think she forgot a significant moment, namely immigration and migration. There is raised doubt that significant immigration into Norway has economic consequences that obviously also affect the sustainability of the welfare society, but I note that the Prime Minister did not pay much attention. Another group in society that you can really say is people behind the numbers, are the pensioners, who have now experienced for a very long time negative purchasing power development. This must be because the intentions of the original pension agreement are not followed. Had it been followed out, the negative purchasing power development had not been achieved over many years as the country's pensioners now experience. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does she agree with that, and will the government do something in the future to stop the negative development of the country's pensioners, i.e. the people behind the figures?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e257	There is no doubt that developments have been different from those observed in 2011 or when the 2007–08 pension agreement was adopted. Since I am now the only active signatory to this agreement, I would say that what we had as an agreement was that you should have an average of the wage and price rise, and then it was operated by the red-green government to minus 0.75. It is precisely because there is reason to look at this, that we have said that we should – and we have – reduce a political, expertly composed commission to look at it. Starting to change individual pieces of a pension scheme is a challenge to see the overall impact of. That's why it's important that we have a good professional basis when we do that, if there's to be single pieces we're changing. We must be careful that what is the main purpose of the pension agreement, namely that we have a sustainable pension system for the future, is maintained even if there may be elements in this that need to be changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e262	A commission is certainly well and good, but a very small help and comfort for the pensioners who live today. There are many years until the Commission's work is done, and then it probably takes even more years before this comes to treatment in the Stortinget. In VG on the web today you can read that international law expert Mads Harlem and lawyer Nils Christian Nordhus are now in the process of helping Redd Barna get more IS women and their children home to Norway. My question to the Prime Minister is, does the government have any opinion on this? How does the government stand to pick up several of these IS women? I have noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has previously made a statement that she is deeply concerned and encourages relatives to make contact, so that they can possibly help these homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e271	The government has no idea of this, no conversations about this and has not heard anything from them either. We have also read the newspapers, in the same way that the representative Jensen has done. That's what we've done in this context. Our starting point is that none of the Norwegian citizens are now in the Al Hol camp who have asked for help. As far as we know, they have no desire to come back to Norway. We're not going to do anything extraordinary to help anyone. As you have to remember, it's not that we can help children without parents' consent. Nor do we believe that in this situation we are in a situation similar to that we had in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e278	We could read in the Swedish newspaper Express the other day that the Swedish government is pursuing it, namely to contact Swedish citizens in these camps and to encourage the separation of mothers and children, so that you can help the children home, but not the women. So it's a trail that the Swedes can pursue, but not the Norwegian authorities, and it's interesting to notice. I have challenged the Prime Minister on several occasions in the last six months to give us an answer as to what has happened to those who have come home. I notice that it is the greatest ‘silence’ of both the Prime Minister and the rest of the government on that issue, despite the fact that many are wondering. Can the Prime Minister now tell the Norwegian people what the situation is for the domesticised IS woman and child?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e285	We have brought home in two different rounds. One time the orphaned child was brought home when the Progress Party was also a member of the government. A very clear message from me at the press conference we held then was that these children should be allowed to remain children and not be identified or otherwise, because they had to be allowed to live as normal a life as Norwegian children as possible. I still mean that. I believe that is also the right of the children of the other returnee, that children should not be judged for their parents' actions, and that we should not identify them, disclose them or do other things. I do not know what is the state of health or anything the representative has asked for repeatedly before, because this is private information that I do not have about the representative Jensen or about children who have been brought back from Al Hol camp to Norway. In the case of the IS woman herself, she is still in custody and awaits. There has also been a press release about and information from the police, prosecution authorities and the PST about it. It's still the way she's been imprisoned pending a trial.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e294	In Norway we are happy in our country. We are happy in the diverse country where we have activity, community and value creation from the coast of the north to the inland forests, to the west coast, to the gentle South. We are proud of the diverse country. In the last seven years, we have had a very centralising government that has implemented reform after reform that has contributed to centralisation. We've had the most centralizing government of our time. Last week I was in Finnmark and met representatives from the communities there, who were crystal clear on how unwise the colliding of Finnmark and Troms was. My questions to Prime Minister Erna Solberg are: What has improved in Finnmark and Troms due to the coercive merger? What has improved in the Viken, in Halden, in Hallingdal because of the coercion of the new Viken? Is there anything that has improved at all, something that the Prime Minister is able to promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e303	The merger took place on 1 January this year, and it is clear that in Troms and Finnmark, state politicians have opposed and not implemented so much of what they should do out of cooperation solutions to improve measures, because they have opposed the merger. That, of course, is a challenge. At the same time, we transferred more authority, not least in one of the areas I talked about in my main post, namely competence. We transferred more authority to the county councils to be able to work on the mapping. We've transferred the BIO funds to the county councils to make sure they can help companies more locally, to help them raise their skills. They've got skills plans, got a greater responsibility from 0 to 24 years, for everyone, to make sure that not only are they in the age group who are entitled to secondary education, but also that everyone else is to be followed up more closely. This is now being built around the county organisations. I see it, for example. in my own home country, Westland, which has built up better follow-up services. That's good, we're going to do even more of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e308	The reason for the biggest change in Norway's map of the time was to transfer BIO funds and resources of competence to the counties. After all, it must be the most expensive way of implementing it, at least with the enormous resistance and the red tape actually taking place. It is impossible for the Prime Minister to tell someone in Halden that it has become so much better, or tell someone in Hallingdal why it was so reasonable to coerce. But let's go a little bit further, to what Norway we are happy about. We are happy in a Norway with small differences between people, that those who are workers should have decent wages and pensions, not that those who do the practical things in the job should get a tenth of what the director gets. Now we have seen that the last few weeks have been looking for developments in the Norwegian railway system after the fragmentation and privatisation of Prime Minister Erna Solberg. And what do we see there? Well, we see that since 2017, there has been a doubling in the number of directors, and there has been a triple in the Director's salary while ordinary workers have been cut in retirement and more uncertainty about their everyday lives. What's fair about it, Prime Minister Erna Solberg, that the director's salary triples, while the workers get cut off in their pensions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e315	The fact that you have a competitive salary to hire people in different companies, including in the state, is important. At the same time, we've been very clear that it's going to lie in the lower shelf, not in the upper shelf. The state should never be the payroll for these kinds of jobs, and we're pretty Nazi on that very question to government councils and others who're doing something else. So we're going to follow this pretty closely, because we have to take care of it. I agree. But then the big question is, does this change help us get better rail? I'm sure of that, because it's the customers that are most important. There are now several people who travel by rail. We have several departures on the railway. We are in a special situation during the Koron era, but initially the number of passengers has increased, there are several departures, more trains. We also help to collect money from the tenders that have been made so that we can strengthen the railway sector even more. So in sum, I think it'll be quite clear that this is an important reform to make sure we get better quality, more departures that need it. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e323	The President is also strict on time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e328	It's a bit of a special language to use the word 'nazi' about the pay policy for the government, but let's take the consequences of this pay policy: once you hire a new director in the Vy, you can get a bonus of 1.5 million. kr, i.e. get a bonus that is higher than the salary of a government council. That is what the Prime Minister thinks is moderate and wise. I think this is very unwise. The total remuneration of the new Director of Vy, a principal company, may be more than 5 million. kr. An industry Erna Solberg has very much faith in, is the communications industry. Every time you recruit new professionals, I have to see if they have a background in First House, and very often they do. Prime Minister Erna Solberg has recruited more people from First House than she has recruited from Hedmark, Oppland and Trondelag together. If you have money, influence and power, you get into the government of Solberg. My question to Prime Minister Solberg finally: Is this the last time we see this dense connection? Are there enough people from First House now, or will Solberg have even more PR advisors who can be managed by money, into the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e337	I think it is a very nice way to talk about people who have done a long service to political parties – in youth organisations, in big groups, in the construction of parties, also in local politics – because they have been working and receiving their income for a few years when they cannot live on politics full-time, because they may represent parties that don't get as many rapporteurs as the Senter party gets in all the small municipalities. So they can't live on it, but they have other incomes. It's the rest of their political career – because they've contributed their competence into First House. On the other hand, I would like to say that I think the customers of First House should think about and contact someone in this room before they contacted First House. That's my main message. Storting representatives are an underused resource for companies, municipalities and others to get help to solve challenges, so talking to their local staging representative before calling a consulting firm, I would recommend everyone. It's much cheaper, it's actually completely free, and that's their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e344	Differences in power and wealth in Norway are increasing, and the main reason is that the economic elite withdraws from ordinary people. We've got numbers lately that show that the 370 richest people in the country confiscate 6 pst. of all income, and that the richest prom in the country only pays between 9 pst. and 17 pst. in taxes, much less than the usual workers do. In this situation, Erna Solberg has rigged the tax system for the rich, so that the differences can be reinforced even more. Then it was interesting to note the panic that was triggered in the civil camp yesterday, by the report that shows that in terms of what the government has said for seven years, namely that lower taxes on wealth would lead to increased employment, is the reverse. Can the Prime Minister now admit that no one from the Right has been able to say clearly the last day, namely that the government's report has been given, shows that the Prime Minister has been saying wrong for seven years?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e351	No, because it would be wrong to say. What this report shows is that when you have taxes on wealth, you move to where the tax on wealth is the lowest. This means that when there is less taxation on the value of work than there is on the value of other things, for example: capital, you move to it. It's pretty important to be precise on what to do about it. As I said earlier, it is also important to remember what was clearly said about the researchers, that this is not necessarily a description of the entire labour market. In the list in the representative's description of what has happened, he forgot one significant figure. Thus, with regard to the proportion of taxes paid in Norway, there is a slightly increased proportion of taxes paid by the richest, compared to what it was before that government joined. So we've given tax relief to everyone, and the rich pay a little bit more of the tax in Norway than they did before.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e358	So here the government is ordering a report, which shows that the government's policy is completely flawed, and then, later on, it's like the report doesn't say what it says. What tends to be defended by the Prime Minister is that the Right, in spite of and across its own national meeting, will only cut the property tax on so-called working capital. But what is working capital? Yes, it is, among other things. the assets of the shares. And where are the richest in Norway? Yes, it's in shares. I have a great deal to say about Norway's School of Business, among other things. that it is located in the most beautiful city in Norway and the world, but it has never been a centre of competence for socialist thinking. That's why I think what Professor Guttorm Schjelderup says in today's business today, must make a little impression on the Prime Minister: «The elimination of taxes on wealth on working capital is the best thing to do if you want to further increase the inequality in Norway. I'm afraid we're going towards a system where the richest barely pay taxes." Why is Erna Solberg leading us towards a system where the richest barely pay taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e370	I am concerned that everyone should pay taxes. Not least, the rich will continue to pay a much larger proportion of taxes than the others do. That's why we can also refer to what we've actually done. But we're making some changes to the tax system -- if you look at what we've done. So if we go into what the tax system was like in 2009, you would lose $8,000 if you moved the money from a secondary home to investment in your own company, from having an extra cabin or an extra home somewhere to having it in working capital. What we're doing now, with the changes we've made, is we've moved from secondary housing to active work to create jobs in the future. So now you're going to make $2,000 to move it from having a rental in Oslo to actually having it invested in your own company. There are changes we're making because it gives more value creation and more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e375	The pace of environmental and climate policy needs to be doubled. We need a large-scale commitment to carbon capture and storage. Nevertheless, the government leaves partial financing of the carbon capture plant on Klemetsrud to others. There will be nothing of this unless the EU or the Municipality of Oslo can pay. Instead, the government chooses to spend money on investments that reinforce environmental problems. The entire plant could be financed on Klemetsrud by dropping two kilometres of the proposed E18 between Bærum and Oslo. Our children are going to measure today's politicians on what we did to solve the natural and climate crisis. I ask whether the Prime Minister can guarantee that the proposed bet on CCS will not be weakened in the negotiations with the Advance Party, and whether she is open to negotiate with us in the Greens and with the parties on the left to spend more money on the CCS bet to secure the project on Klemetsrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e380	The Government has submitted its proposal in a communication submitted to the Stortinget. That's what we're behind, and that's what we're going to work to get through in the Storting. It is an important priority of a future technology that will not primarily have such an impact on Norwegian emissions, but can trigger a technology development for the rest of the world. What's been the whole argument that we're going to go ahead is that CCS, because we're now developing the storage capacity, can help more countries come after, that it's getting easier to get something bigger. That's what matters to the climate. Then one of our important success criteria is that more people come by. The success criterion is not how much we do ourselves. In fact, the success criterion is that we get the EU interested in this, that we get more participation in it, that other countries follow. If not the big downside – it’s there potentially, and I haven’t hidden it on – this will be a new crash landing because we’ve spent a lot of money on something that doesn’t give us big results in the future. I'm optimistic and believe in the opposite, but it's actually important that we engage the others. Then it is good that we have a measure like this, for example. may be involved in investing in, in order to see even more of the technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e387	Unfortunately, this year's census was not respectful of the unemployed and their families, because the government fails to mention that in the next few months the unemployed will come out like the big losers with government policy. Thousands will fall completely out of the paycheck. All those who have left the job this year will lose their holiday money next summer, and all those who still receive the daily allowance will go down in income from the turn of the year because the government cuts off the improvements that the Storting made when the crisis hit in March. On 1 November, people who are unemployed begin to fall out of the day-to-day arrangements. It will affect thousands of people, month by month. Number Red has received from the Ministry of Finance, shows that almost 10,000 people lose the right to a day’s allowance during November and December, and by June next year another 14,600 people will have fallen out of the scheme. How can the government think that those who have been unemployed for one to two years will come to work in the next few months, and why will they throw them out of the paycheck?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e394	We were in the middle of one of the absolute biggest crises we've ever had in the labour market. Fortunately, we are now about to see a light in that labour market. Now, even though they are larger than ever before due to the size of Norway, they are lower in proportion than they have been, for example. were in the 1990s and peaks. We are no longer in the situation that someone has described as the greatest unemployment crisis in relation to the population. Fortunately, we have seen that there are good mechanisms in it. Day money is a challenge in some areas. It keeps people under the authority of e.g. jobs and areas where you may not come back again. It is important to have flexibility in the labour market so that you also move to new jobs, that you are more actively looking for work. We thought that when we were in a very special situation, it was right that we had better arrangements. Now we're back on the arrangements that the Storting has thought over all previous crises have been good arrangements, and that have helped us to have the best insurance schemes in terms of both daily and permitting, of the countries around us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e402	The cord shift is with the change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e409	This replicator demonstrated very clearly that the right-wing policy increases differences and results in privatisation. The Right Party now has no more fig leaves to hide behind in business policy. Recently, Export Credit presented a disappointing report: Norway has the worst export development in the OECD. It is not just a serious warning for the country. For a right-wing government that has been sitting for seven years with conversion as the most important thing in its project, it is also a crushing judgment. Unless a country is, to a greater extent, dependent, one will be of exchange with others, i.e. exports. It is about the efficient use of labour resources and access to what we could not have produced ourselves. Trade brings enormous benefits. For Norway, which is a small country, our wealth is closely linked to trade. That's why the Labour Party has presented an ambitious programme for growth in export-right industry and business with the intention of using the state as an active participant. In contrast, the passivity of the current government, which is proven to have failed, stands. The development is now dramatic. In a few years' time, Norwegian foreign economy can go under with oil and gas sales in the accountancy. The passive right-wing policy and the lack of ability to prioritize value creation and conversion in actual policies, not just rhetoric, have failed. This means that the right is left with its only measure: the cut in the taxes on wealth. The problem is that tax cuts to the richest as a food policy tool now have the last nail in the coffin. We've known for a long time that property tax laws don't provide jobs. But now we see that it's rather the opposite: increasing the wealth tax can give positive employment effects. The right-hand rule is thus undressed. The Labour Party line is the active enterprise policy. We want companies to meet a country that is more daring and demanding more back – a country that is running up capital, supporting new technologies and using ownership and purchasing to create jobs and reach important social goals. Norway is rich in natural resources, fish, forests, seas and clean energy. We have the best workers in the world, and we have the best model of working life. Possibilities are there; the starting point is there. What we need is political leadership and close cooperation between the state, trade and business. And we need a real business in government -- a worker's party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e424	There is a lot about the Groruddalen in national media at present, and it is positive that what could have been the country's fifth largest city is getting more attention. I hope that this interest in the Groruddalen and us who live there can affect the priorities made here in the house. For many years, SV and I have been promoting a wide range of concrete proposals for the Groruddalen, to improve living conditions, to strengthen sport and culture, to reduce traffic and to improve kindergartens and schools. The Grorud Valley is more than the one-sided image drawn in the media and by individual politicians in search of attention. There are 140 000 people living in the Grorud valley. If we had been our own town, we would have been the country's fifth largest. In some sub-urban areas, too many young people grow up in poor families and in too small apartments, and too many are unemployed – reinforced by the Korona crisis. And there are three motorways that cut through the valley and provide too much traffic, noise and pollution. But there it's also great to live. There are good neighborhoods, great people and young people who are engaged in their community, beautiful nature and many fine leisure activities for young people and adults. It's basically ordinary people who live there and live their lives there. The Groruddalen needs representatives who see the whole valley and all the people there, who dare to put words on the challenges that are there, but who also primarily work politically to change them and make the valley better, and who have bigger dreams than black-painting kids who are there. That is why I hope that more parties can now be involved with SV to ensure that more money is put into the field, that the transport projects that reduce car traffic in Groruddalen should be given priority, that the plans to close and move the police station at Stovner are scrapped, that the plans to establish a new Oslo prison in Bredtvetskogen stop us, and that it is arranged for more young people to get into work – both in summer and elsewhere this year. I think it's a good idea to listen to the youth who says they're tired of being stigmatized because they're from the Grorud Valley, because they're proud of the valley and of living there, and so am I.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e441	There are many professional groups who have received well-deserved attention and applause during the coronary apathy. Then I think especially of everyone with professions that have critical societal functions. Health professionals, employees in the field of sanitation and waste and employees in water and sewerage are some examples. It has also been gratifying that professional groups that we may not have given particular attention before have also received attention and gratitude. Then I think of daily workers, bus drivers, haul drivers, truck drivers, warehouse workers, farmers and others, who can be pulled out here. Now the pandemic is far from over, so we still have to spare both applause and gratitude to these professional groups in the future as well. But I think it's another profession that hasn't received a lot of attention or applause so far under the pandemic. My father belongs to this group. Every day under the pandemic he stood up from the bed as usual. He put the coffee maker on, took a shower, ate a quick lunch and put on work clothes – the same daily routine since he started working as a 16-year-old. Maybe he was a little worried about the situation and how the family was doing, or how safe his job really was if the pandemic and the economy got worse. My father often worked alone, sometimes with more, but then with extra good distance. He put tiles in the bathroom and toilets, and he fixed and rehabilitated facades in schools and city gardens. But my father wasn't the only one. While the pandemic was falling at worst, many tens of thousands of craftsmen, like my father, went to work as usual. Similarly, hundreds of thousands of others in the construction sector and in the wider industry also did so, both offshore and onshore. Maybe they were also concerned about their future job or for their children who now had to be home from kindergarten and school, or for their better half, who now got an extra big responsibility with both child and home office, while they couldn't be at home to help out. They had all the professions that required them to go to work physically every day, and they could not do as many of us did and move the job virtual home to the kitchen or home office. Wednesday this week, i.e. tomorrow, the government will present the state budget for 2021. It is likely to be the largest government budget per capita in the world. This is a lot thanks to the hundreds of thousands of private businesses that went to work every day as usual under the pandemic. Their professions are not considered to be socially critical professions, but their work is highly critical of the state budget. All those who work in what I call the state budget critical sector deserve to be thanked. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e452	‘For six months, the corona virus has shaped our everyday lives.’ This is how the right-wing government opens the year’s throne speech. What they don't say much about is that everyday life is extra heavy for those who had already experienced the systematic well-being shots of Erna Solberg's government before the Corona. It is a fact that the right-wing government over seven years – whether it has consisted of two, three or four parties – has led a policy that increases the distance in living conditions between those who have much and those who have little. The increased differences have gone along two closely linked tracks: billions in tax cuts to those who have the most from before – paid with billions in cuts in the welfare of those who have little. Tax and social security policies go hand in hand, consistently and brutally, in the form of a strong redistribution from poor families, the unemployed, the sick, the disabled and disabled, to those who have more than enough already. Less than one month ago, the National Court of Justice decided to remove the property tax. Norway will thus receive 25 000 new zero-tax payers, and the loss of income will have to be covered by new expenditure cuts. The poverty line of the government and the majority of the population will continue. The list of shockshoots is long. Persons on job clearance are among those who are hard hit. They have paid dearly for the tax cuts to the richest. We're talking about sick people. They need diagnosis and treatment in the health care system, then clarification of future working capacity through Nav. It often takes time, and even more time, during the corona, now that the necessary clarification has been put on hold by too many due to increased strain on Nav and healthcare employees. Nevertheless, the duration of the AAP is cut from four to three years. Extension beyond it has become almost impossible to obtain, even if clearance against social security or work has not been completed. To all intents and purposes, the right-wing government has ensured that the person who loses his or her redundancies is quarantined for one year before the necessary redundancies to work or social security can continue. During the quarantine period, more people have experienced loss of all income and are referred to social assistance or private support. Many have to make money savings or sell their homes before social assistance can be granted. The government claimed that cut-offs in work clearance would lead to more people working. It hasn't happened. There have been more miscarriages and more in social assistance. The government says in the throne that they will lift vulnerable groups. People on the job clearance have experienced the exact opposite. They can thank Erna Solberg for standing on the bar hill. It's time to turn around. Allow me to recommend the Workers' Party's proposal No. 24, to reverse the cuts in redundancy pay. The Labour Party will also support proposal No. 83, from SV, if now finally get the consequences of these unsocial cuts on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e467	This year's debate on the throne starts the last session before the roll-call elections, and most of the parties are now launching new programmes on the policy to be followed for elections. Yesterday, we could celebrate the one-year anniversary of the Johan Sverdrup field, an oil field that will fill up the treasury with nearly 1000 billion dollars. kr, which will require almost 3,400 annual works every year for the next fifty years, if they are to continue. Because while it was only the SV and the Green Party who voted against the Johan Sverdrup field in 2015, one sees now a rotation of the parties. Red will cut the industry by 2030, the Green Party by 2035, the Left will say no to more exploration and extraction permits on Norwegian pedestal, the Senterung judgment will have an end date, and the future government councils of the Workers' Party coming from the AUF will close the industry by 2035. In 2021, it will be difficult to separate many of the batches in the race to shut down the oil industry as quickly as possible. But the Progress Party must be recognizable. We are proud of the industrial venture that is on the Norwegian North Sea base, and we want a predictable policy to develop the most important industry we have, an industry that creates growth, well-being and jobs throughout the country. But it is not just in the oil industry that we see that there is a need for the solutions of the Progress Party. We spent seven years in government getting as many projects as possible into the national transport plan. And unfortunately, we see that after seven months as Minister of Transport, Knut Arild Hareide and the government have now greatly reduced the level of ambition and talk the most about which projects are to be out of their national transport plan. The Progress Party is committed to building the country, and we will continue to fight for several four-field motorways, such as the E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger, because it links housing and working regions closer together and is a good social economy. Finally, we have also made a proposal asking for a review of the funding categories in higher education to ensure that education, such as: training in engineering and teaching, which is requested in the labour market, is properly funded. Money is important for what the students receive, such as practice, relevant equipment and good teaching skills. I hope that the bulk of the population supports us in this review. The result of such a decision should be a complete review of all the categories of funding, but if the government considers it to be too extensive, we should at least review those most in demand in the labour market. The promotion party is concerned with training people for work, not unemployment, and if we are to get young people to train for the professions they need, the quality of education must be good and not underfunded. I bring up the proposals No. 88 and 89.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e486	The representative Roy Steffensen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e491	It was important that the day of the throne was free from coronary infection, but that the speech of the throne should be almost free of politics, was surprising. It bears witness to a government that is energyless, a worn-out government without initiative, without the ability to develop policies to meet our major challenges, without policies to achieve the goals it itself describes as important. The census states: ‘High employment is the key prerequisite for the Norwegian welfare society’. Furthermore, unemployment is said to be ‘a major challenge for our society’. Yes, that's right, but where is the policy to combat unemployment? The government says that it will ‘continuously assess the need for changes, or introduce new arrangements if necessary’. That is the answer – ‘if necessary’. The availability is record high, about 200,000. The Workers' Party's response is a country that moves towards capital, supports new technologies and uses ownership and public procurement to secure jobs and reach important social goals, and demands that society regain something. More of our natural resources are to be transformed and provide jobs here at home. We want to strengthen the organized working life to preserve our social model. Together with the trade union movement, we will fight social dumping, pay theft and labour crime and limit rent and ensure that more people can work full-time. In the throne, the government says: ‘More jobs and high employment are the most important for maintaining a society with small differences and opportunities for all’. Yeah, it's important, but that's not enough. We also need to pursue a fair tax policy where those who need it get the relief, and those who tolerate it need to contribute more to the community. We all have to get a pension from the first penny and make sure that pensioners get more purchasing power – even when everyone else gets it. So we have to reverse the trend we've seen in recent years, that the differences are increasing, and where the people who make the most are taxing less of each of the heads than most of the people. It's not a balancing tax system, it's the opposite. What is the government's answer? Well, that's cutting even more of the wealth tax on so-called working capital. And what's not working capital? At a bank deposit, the money is not in the bank, but they are set to work. But we heard the Prime Minister in the reply today saying that she is not at all concerned about the increasing differences in income and wealth in our society. The choice next year is a valuable choice: the right-hand side's response to the challenges we face in reducing unemployment, strengthening welfare and cutting climate change is cutting the income of the community. Our solutions are to meet these challenges with active political grips.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e513	We're in the last year of work before a new big shot. The composition of the party and people in the Great Britain today now has the last chance to show that they have a connection with reality and people. The central party believes the distance between the reality experienced by the right-wing government and the reality of kindergartens and schools is great. The centralisation and for narrow municipal budgets – topped by a pandemic – are a poor recipe for better care and education. Growth and training are important for children and young people, and it is important to balance social differences. By ensuring safe children in a safe everyday life, we secure the future. It is good that we get an external evaluation of the six-year reform and the school start of the children, it is a victory for children and parents across the country and a result of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party promoting representative proposals back in 2018. New curricula are also a cause for rejoicing. Cross-politically, we've gathered behind the game and the student in the center. Educational materials must be in place. The centre party is engaged in practical and active learning throughout the education and training cycle. What's worse, the situation is that the teachers are getting involved, and the centre party would want far more trust and room for action for the professionals in the everyday lives of children and young people. A smaller amount of testing and ranking will release time for school day security and school day-to-day mastering. Employment and the focus on how young people can make informed choices for their education are also important. This is where the Central Party got a pass last time we were in government. Students must have practical experience in both occupations and education even before they are in and during high school. Now we want a real profession for upper secondary education. Fewer students fall away, but I understand that the motivation is low when the equipment is prehistoric and the follow-up is minimal. Both training offices and career guidance staff can ensure that students see the benefits of attending school and learn how to obtain a letter of formal qualifications. Evidence of competence is becoming more important and important. Higher vocational education is now also given a promise after the Centre Party participated in ensuring a majority for the creation of 1000 new vocational schools each year. Businesses need skilled workers, and skilled workers need jobs. Then the colleges are key to opening the door between them. Other higher education also deserves development rather than liquidation. Centralisation and structural reform have failed. We need education, research and a living institute sector across the country. This provides knowledge-driven development and opportunities for education and lifelong learning near people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e528	In the throne we heard the government say that they will thank those who contribute to the fight against the coronary virus. Cultural actors and ordinary workers were promoted. But the government doesn't follow up with politics. When Norway closed, the Storting was quickly in place to adopt different income protection schemes. People were not to stand without security of income at a time like the coronary apathy. For the Workers' Party, it was important that we met the uncertainty together, and a temporary compensation system was established for self-employed people to prevent them from standing on the bar. This arrangement will expire on 1 November. It's completely incomprehensible to me. The crisis is in many ways not over, and we are still getting examples of local outbreaks. The system has been completely necessary for more people in an uncertain time, and we know that more people will be affected if we wind up the scheme now. Last week I spoke to cultural workers Knut-Erik Rønne in Sarpsborg. He could tell about a time of uncertainty and unpredictability. The compensation scheme has enabled him to take on work, but at the same time he knows that if the assignments become too few, if the income becomes too small, the safety net will be there for him and the family. This security network will now be removed by the government. Luckily, there is a time when we are going back to festivals, gathering in large assemblies and going to concerts and performances. But with the government's policy, I fear that there won't be enough of the cultural actors left to create the good moments for us when we can reassemble on the other side of the corona. As a result of the coronary apathy, many are experiencing uncertainties for the future and the workplace. The government will remove the security network that we've built up. The compensation arrangements shall be removed, the minimum daily allowance shall be increased, the increased rates shall be removed and the social partners and the opposition shall withdraw the government in order to extend the period of leave. The Labour Party wants security for the future, and that is why we need to extend these arrangements. If we settle them too early, people are left to themselves at a time of uncertainty. Community and good will become inconclusive words if we are not willing to stand out. The crisis is not over. That is why we need a policy for small differences and security in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e545	This debate clearly shows the important distinctions in Norwegian policy, and they are historical. The main thing is what is important for policy, and it is to ensure that our people, including for the future, are free and socially safe, and that there should be really equal rights and opportunities in Norway. We must then at all costs prevent Norway too from developing slowly, but surely, into a class society, because it will help Norway no longer to be a modern and forward-looking state. We see this development in several other places in Europe, and we also see developments in our own country. We have a unique opportunity to ensure a good society for the future in Norway, but the development of inequality must be stopped. In that case, the privatisation of health and education must be stopped. Then the violent division of bias in the country's value creation must be stopped. It will then have to be stopped by increasing cultural inequality. And then we have to stop a government that says they recognize the unorganized working life. It's like the right parties and their representatives know very well what they're doing. They don't challenge the community fundamentally, they don't dare, because they know it doesn't work. The code words that we constantly hear in this debate are that freedom is better than a balance, that the individual must have the freedom to choose. What does that mean? They know well that when they say that, and build a community, that means that the money can take a lot of power. They know this. If, for many years and decades after World War II, the right parties had been allowed to shape the development of Norwegian society along such a line, we would already have had a class-shared society. It is claimed that I caricer when I say this. No, just look at what the privatisation of the health care system already represents of inequality. See what challenges we've faced in education. All of this requires Norway to be a fair, forward-looking and modern state for the future. That's why it's absolutely essential that the right-hand side be combated and that we make sure that we get a new government in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e557	It is nothing new that the representative Kolberg comes with doomsday prophecies over the Right, and not least over the government. Then I just want to remind you that more people have been treated in the hospital than ever, that more are completing high school, and that before the coronary crisis, we had a historically low unemployment rate. It might be worth taking with it. For the most important thing for people's security and everyday life is actually having a job to go to. The Korona situation has put us to the test, and business has challenges, not least travel and culture have been hit hard. In my district, Hallingdal, it's noticed that foreign tourists are failing. In Kongsberg parts of the industry are hit. But we're lucky to have an economy and run the country so that we can take the necessary measures. Governments are now creating a new system, a system of incentives. It's set with a total of 900 million. kr to it, and that's to get the wheels started and get on with it. We're going to get out of this crisis with new knowledge. We've learned digital solutions, QR codes at restaurants have come to stay, glass-plastics become of course simple places, and we're better with hand washing. But we have to convert Norway. We have to get less oily. Several private enterprises have to be established, and then they have to have framework conditions to pay off. We need to stick to the EEA Agreement, which ensures Norwegian companies access to a market of 500 million inhabitants. 70 pst. Norwegian exports go from mainland to EEA territory, and we add oil and gas, it is 80 pst. The centre lot will terminate the EEA Agreement. It's a big risk project The Workers' Party is going into, if they want to cooperate with the Center Party. The right is concerned with building a city and building closer together. We will reduce the distances between people and make goods and services appear faster. New Roads have led to considerable savings, some 59 billion. kr. Those are values that we use in other fields. We finish projects earlier than agreed. The Ringerix Railway is an example of a district policy measure that shortens the distance from Oslo to Bergen and develops an entire region. These aren't doomsday prophecies. My concern is a Workers' Party that refuses to convert, which will tax business more, which will cooperate with a no-to-EEA partner, and will wind up New Roads. It doesn't give you a safe everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e574	I'm as lucky as I can stand here today. I was very sick. The bacteria nestled in my body, and I hovered between life and death. I lost my language, and I couldn't go, but I didn't lose my life. I got the only medicine that works when people get bacterial infections: antibiotics. But antibiotics seem increasingly inferior, as more bacteria become resistant. The coronary apnea is tiny if antibiotic resistance increases more. We've forgotten how much antibiotics have meant to us all. If antibiotics don't work, a scrubbing wound or pneumonia can kill you. The majority of antibiotics are used for meat production, not for humans. We need to stop meat imports, minimise health tourism that increases resistance, and use less antibiotics. In 2019, the use of broad spectrum antibiotics increased in Norway. We get sick of other things than just infections, and then we probably need drugs, whatever the type. What has happened when the Right has steered? In 2013, Norway had fewer than 100 drug shortage cases. In 2015, patients lacked 150 medicines, in 2017 missing 375 medicines, and in 2019, before the pandemic hit Norway, patients lacked 1 250 medicines. The government has not secured the country. Even before the pandemic hit Norway, it was clear that we did not have enough preparedness. Stortingen has received a proposal from SV to produce several medicines in Norway. That's good for patients, good for preparedness and very good for the economy. I want to work for others to be as lucky as I am, that they get the drugs they need, and that the medicine works.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e587	An active district policy aimed at people living and working throughout the country is essential if we are to ensure growth and value creation in Norway. If it is to live in people throughout the country, the big community must provide security, services and jobs throughout the country. The centre party believes that everyone is entitled to the same security wherever they live. I want to use the entrance to a new year of growth to remind you that district policy is almost everything we adopt in this room. In addition to the purely district-based instruments, there are urban and rural distribution considerations and between different social groups in almost everything we are doing. District policy is about taxation, innovation, housing policy, local economy, electricity and broadband access, county roads, preparedness, etc. District policy is not a narrow niche, it must permeate all the policies we pursue. Right later, as if centralisation were self-evident, but statistics clearly show that district policy is a misguided policy. When the red-green government joined in 2005, there were more than twice as many emigration municipalities as municipalities with growth, 116 and 249 respectively. After eight years of central regional policy, the trend had turned upside down, with more than twice as many growth municipalities, 255, versus 112 with a decline. After seven years with the Right and Advance Party in the government offices, the fasitium is now even worse than in 2005. In 2019, 291 municipalities had a population decline, while only 128 had growth. The result of government policy is that both services, work and people are centralised. One of the government's many centralisation measures is the community reform and the starvation of small municipalities. Community merger creates more challenges than it solves, and the government's idea that a given population solves the challenges and differences that exist in Municipality-Norway does not match the map. The centre party is committed to developing good services throughout Norway and will ensure a local economy that allows all municipalities to provide equivalent services. We need to put in place a rural growth package in regions with the main challenges of business start-ups. The sum of all major and minor centralisation decisions of the government parties is devastating for Norwegian district policy. Strong instruments are required to reverse developments. It's demanding, but it's possible. Political will is required to follow up and make some tough priorities to bet on districts. The government has expanded with a district minister, but still lacks district policy. That's what the Center Party will do after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e606	We're in a strenuous coronary apathy. I am now meeting at Stortinget until further notice, but I have been elected as rapporteur in the Municipality of Kvinesdal for the current parliamentary term. That is why I have followed this pandemic closely at municipal level, together with a competent operational crisis management and with employees and trustees who work every day to ensure the safest and best possible service offered to our citizens. In addition, cooperation with other municipalities in the region and in Agder is good, and there is a good dialogue with the County Council. My clear main impression is that the municipalities handle this well in a particularly demanding situation. I also want to thank the government, the big business and the professional authorities for the way they handle this, and not least how our citizens and everyone are helping to get the best out of this pandemic. From the day one, the government has been concerned with life and health first. It's been an important choice of values, which I fully support. We are a privileged nation, where we actually have the opportunity to contribute the necessary financial means of compensation to municipalities, businesses, culture, non-governmental organisations, etc. In the future, it will be important to be able to follow up on the necessary measures, both economically and with the necessary measures to prevent the spread of infection. It's in the municipalities people live and live their lives. We also have to call about our most vulnerable groups, and I hope we can do this in a way that allows us to facilitate as many visits as possible. Both the government and the municipalities need to step up their efforts towards isolation and solitude among the elderly and others in care centres and in housing-based services. I am very pleased with the government's budget leakage that 60 million will be granted. for measures to combat solitude among the elderly. I am grateful that we have a government that also looks beyond, and that takes international responsibility in this demanding pandemic. Our skilled development minister, Dag-Inge Ulstein, says that the pandemic is a crisis here at home, but a disaster out there. Norway shall assume a clear commitment to contribute to international solutions to meet the pandemic. We have to stand together internationally to find solutions that serve us all. I'll continue in the emergency room. We're in the process of further augmented echoes. Mobile and broadband coverage and good backup solutions in terms of coverage security even when the power is gone need a further lifting. We have experienced through extreme weather how vulnerable we can be. The Christian People's Party has long wanted universal service on broadband, and now there is a proposal on this at the hearing. The proposal allows the authorities to impose universal service obligations on one or more operators so that all households and businesses throughout the country are entitled to basic broadband services. This is about everyday policy and security for people when, for example: floods, storms or hurricanes are raging, and are not least a good district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e627	I represent Hedmark, and in my county, the government has destroyed too many communities with its policies, which are about privatizing, centralizing, overrun people and creating greater differences. First of all, the government has put Hedmark down. Despite the fact that the people in the county did not want to, and the people said no, Erna Solberg said, "You must, for the government knows best." Now the government will merge several municipalities in Hedmark, and one of the councillors of the Right State recently said that municipalities that would not merge could be compared to sour children who do not want to go on a trip. Then I wonder: Where is respect for the opinions of the people of Hedmark? Government parties protect the health business model, which is centralising and has removed democratic control of hospitals. In several places in Hedmark, the ambulances are centralised, and now the hospital in Elverum is in danger of being laid down. Removing one of the district’s largest jobs will be a huge challenge for health protection in our region. The systematic dismantling of the judiciary by the government threatens both the security and legal security of the people of Hedmark. The right wanted to put the district court on Tynset, Elverum and Kongswinger and the right to land change on Tynset, but fortunately was stopped by the Center Party and a majority in Stortinget. The Løten, Eidskog, Engerdal, South Odal and North Odal offices are closed. In North Odal, the government also dropped Bruvoll prison, which is one of the most important jobs in the municipality. In Åsnes and Trysil, the Länsmannskontoret is kept, but built down and has lost local authority over its area. The government has put the railway in Hedmark on a competitive footing. First, NSB was replaced with Vy on the train to Hamar, Elverum and Kongswinger. Then the track was put on offer, and now it is actually Swedish SJ driving trains in the Østerdalen and on the Dovrebanen. There has been considerable uncertainty both for the route offer in the future and for working conditions and jobs in our country. Hedmark is based on soil and forest resources. The forest and the earth are our gold and our heritage. But the government opens up to sell land and forest out of Norway, and if they continue, we can risk land and forests in Hedmark ending up on Chinese or German hands. The right and left will also notify Norway into the EU. It will have enormous consequences for the primary industries, which carry our counties, and they have led a profoundly unfair predatory policy that has removed the livelihood of many farmers in the county. 237 municipalities have lost state jobs under Erna Solberg, and Hedmark is no exception. Each of these things may seem small, but they make up a lot of things together. The centre party believes that Norway needs a course that builds up Norway — and not down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e648	I had hoped that there were major questions raised in the debate on the throne, the really existential questions we have to address – not in the future, but right now. I'm talking about the two crises of climate crisis and natural crisis. I'll say a little about the climate and the transformation in this article. In 1886, the shipping town and the trading city of Arendal experienced a severe economic crash. The city was then one of the most powerful shipping cities in the country, and it had about 500 sailors. Many Norwegian shipowners, especially in the East, were too conservative and not very receptive to new impulses and left too late from sailboats to steamships. In November 1904 the whalecatcher and skipper Carl Anton Larsen came from Vestfold to South Georgia in the South Seas with the so far largest whale vaporizer the world had seen, and he established the whale station Grytviken. This was the beginning of Norway's first oil age. It became a Klondike for the owners and a valuable seasonal work for many. The valuable product was marine whale oil, boiled out of the bacon of the greatest creatures that had ever lived on the globe. The market screamed for whale oil after World War I, depression time and crack on the stock exchanges. When the blue whale was completely satisfied in 1966, our first oil age was over. Then short-term business interests had managed to kill up to three million large whales. There was no need for warnings that the stock was under threat. So what does this have to do with Norwegian oil and gas production? I think most people understand the parallels, if they want to see them. When the conditions change so drastically, we have to take the signals, think ahead and think about change – like when the sail bolts were laid off, like when the whale population ended. The world has found more oil than we can burn, if we're going to have any hope for the climate. The oil market is gradually disappearing, and therefore the oil taps must gradually be turned back on. At least we're not going to stimulate the oil industry financially to find new oil wells that the world doesn't need or wants. But what do we do? The right hand parts and the Working Party continue as before. In June they gave tens of billions of tax dollars to the oil industry to continue in the same track, also through and after the pandemic. We should bring with us a pretty good portion of bad conscience from our first oil age into the second. The whale oil in the South Sea gave us wealth for 60 years. The fossil oil has given us even more wealth for the next 60 years. I'm asking, in the 1880s, maybe Arendal and Stavanger have something in common?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e667	The parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, asked Prime Minister Solberg a question about pensions in connection with the change of line after the Prime Minister’s posts. I am very disappointed with the answer given by the Prime Minister, which indicates that nothing will happen to the underregulation of pensions until, if necessary, the pension commission in a few years' time makes proposals for changes to the current system, and that it will then be changed. For me, the underregulation and the loss of purchasing power experienced by pensioners in recent years is a sort of fraud on the part of Stortinget and the state. In all those years of current retirement, pensioners paid their pension contribution to the social security system, the legislation said that when the pension was paid, it would be regulated around the rate of wage and price increases. Had it been an insurance company that had had such a provision in its pension policy, and then when you had paid a premium for 30-40 years and became a pensioner, would have said no, we're changing those paychecks, there's no one I've met in that country, who doesn't agree that the insurance company would be convicted of fraud in a court of law. What has been done by changing and making the underregulation in the pension agreement of minus 0.75 is, for me, moral fraud against those who have paid their insurance premium, or pension contribution to popular security, over a long life. It is very disappointing when public statements appear to be a kind of majority in the Storting saying that this underregulation has not really been meant, but that there are other circumstances, such as price and wage developments, that have resulted. Then we should quickly get together in this house and make some immediate changes, which at least made sure that the social security scheme that will apply from now on and beyond in 2021 did not lead to underregulation of pensions. It should have the power to do something about it and not just push it in front of it. I also want to arrest the word «sustainable», given that the pension agreement would make the pension scheme sustainable. Well, sustainability sounds nice and positive. The purpose was to save 50 billion dollars. NOK 2030. The purpose of the pension commission and the settlement was only to save money by withdrawing the promises made to pensioners through a long life when they paid their pension contribution. The size need not be proud of the tacit acceptance of such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e678	Norway had a terrible preparedness for the pandemic covid-19, or SARS-CoV-2, severe acute lung disease. Pandemic is the global spread of disease identified by the Directorate of Civil Protection as the greatest societal risk to Norway, together with the lack of medicinal products. This was not taken into account. Norwegian alerting has weakened every year since the 1980s. Norway was not prepared. Within this context, there has been broad political outreach on the measures taken. It's a force for Norway. In the area of health, the government has had safe technical assistance and has acted mainly wisely, in my opinion. But when the prime minister of the throne says that together we are going to endure, until we have got our daily lives back, most people understand this as that social development is going to go on as it was before the pandemic. The centre party disagrees with that. The emphasis now needs to be on national preparedness, production and processing of renewable green natural resources and related decent, well-paid jobs across the country. I have heard many speeches – the basis for one of Storting's most important debates in the autumn session. They're getting thinner and thinner. Where is the discussion based on what we want with Norway in the future? Unfortunately, in this year's speech, there were not many concrete measures, much less fundamental clarifications on demanding issues. What would the government with its enthronement not encourage to endure, so that we get our everyday life back? It's too weak. It is not to take management responsibility. Why has it been like that? Does the government lack visions? Does the government accept that the most important decisions for the safety of the Norwegian people are not taken in Norwegian magnificence, but in other forums? The centre party is a hot supporter of the Norwegian model, where elected representatives of the Stortinget have the freedom to make laws and regulations and use the enormous economic power of the community to control market forces and control the content of private property rights. However, this model of society is attacked every day by the rules of the EEA Agreement — an EEA Agreement which is not a matter but a system for the social organisation of Norway. Brussels decides more and more. This prevents elected representatives from practicing the Norwegian model. The system creates popular amputation. In addition, Norway has a Right-lead government, which prioritises the use of the power of the state to centralise power and welfare services and promote government wage policy with astronomical wages for government leaders – now the last Vy leader of 5.5 million. kr. This is how the development is moving rapidly towards Difference Norway. The centre party stands for Cohesion Norway and the other country that is not seafaring enough. That is why the Senterpartie must return to the Norwegian model, and that means among other things. controlled labour immigration from the EEA outside the Nordic region, a home bank that provides risk loans to young people to the naked owner-occupiers, repatriation of powerful state regional policy measures, the establishment of a state green investment company that can assist private owners – and this is how we can continue. We need a strategic climate and industrial policy with permanent employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e695	In the three previous throne debates, I have addressed the challenges of government centralisation of services and jobs from my home country, Telemark, to Vestfold. This concerns the police chief, her staff and hundreds of police posts, the emergency centre, the State Attorney's Office, the University Headquarters, the Nav Contact Centre and the County State Department. Telemark also suffers from the disappearance of many lenght offices, the cut-off of the traffic station offer, and no less than two hospitals have been closed. After three years at Tinget, where centralisation only continues and services are increasingly being reduced, I understand that the government will not actually listen or act when considering the negative consequences of their centralisation policy. It is so understandable that they will not listen to a sharp opposition politician like me, but something far worse is that they will not listen to those who know the centralization of the body either. Let me take a fresh example: on Friday, the Minister of Justice met the rapporteurs from the municipalities of Nome and Vinje. The latter took up the extremely poor response time in Vinje and West-Telemark, and the police have informed that they cannot actually guarantee a response time of less than two hours – two hours! – in life-threatening situations, in the event of an accident, in the event of a fire, or when a cabin occupant knocks up a partner or children. The wine rapporteur showed in the meeting that the hopeless response time has confirmed the leader of the fire service in Vinje, among others. in the media. The fire boss's people have to do the job for the police for two hours, even when it's violence and killing, and they don't get to do their primary job well enough in car accidents because they also have to act like traffic police. President, do you know what the Minister of Justice answered? She just said, like on ‘repeat’, that there is more police now than ever before, and that her numbers said that the response time in places below 2,000 people is 28 minutes – point. She did not listen one second to what the Vinje rapporteur said, or to what the police or the leader of the fire department had said, and also turned the deaf ear to when the rapporteur asked nicely for more police or security forces to increase the security of his citizens. I think this behaviour from the Minister of Justice reminds me of children who stick their fingers in their ears when they hear something they don't want to hear. That right-wing people aren't very willing to listen to people other than business owners, NHO and First House, we know so far, but still. This is where the Minister is served the facts about the outcome of the near-police reform in Telemark, and she will not hear. She's just doubting her fact sheet. It confirms what I have believed for a long time, that the government has decided to deal only with its own truth in the area of near-police reform, centralisation and district policy. It's scary. We in the Group of the European People's Party believe that the policy is the best when we listen to those who are affected. Today, therefore, we are promoting more proposals to stop the centralization of the government, and we are not going to stop raising these issues, even though the unwilling government is wanting to hear about them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e710	I think this debate of the throne has been a very strong example of the government's new speech in many areas. It's not that you can solve the climate crisis with more oil drilling, as the government says. One cannot save biodiversity by weakening the protection of the Law on Planning and Building. One gets bigger, and no less, differences by wasting billions on tax credits to the most wealthy and by implementing real, unsocial cuts to the sick, the unemployed and the disadvantaged. Then the differences increase, and the unsocial cuts hit exactly those that the prime minister today says she will include. It excludes: people get sicker and more outnumbered by it. There will be more unemployed when the government will not compensate the municipalities quickly for the increased expenditure and lost income they have. Today we can read in the class struggle that in Tromsø they have to pull down 3 pst. There are 170 positions. In Stavanger they try to protect health, well-being and growth, so they just have to cut 3 pst. But all other floors have to cut 6 pst. Eighty-seven million. kr of the expenditure has not yet been covered by the State. Oslo alerts in 2 billion. kr, and is not the money for maintenance either. This will also affect the private sector, so that there will be unemployment there. So this doesn't matter. So the prime minister says they're more business-friendly than the opposition. Yeah, I guess. I was in a meeting with NCE Heidner Biocluster, Norwegian Wood Cluster and BioValley a few weeks ago. So they're the ones that are going to start the green shift in the interior, and what are they saying to us? There is a massive lack of action. And not only that – they say we need a national industrial plan for the bio- and renewables industry. It is necessary to establish a state investment fund that invests in green, forward-looking industries, they say – to all the parties. They've delivered recordings to the games' programs. They also say that this fund must stimulate initiatives that private individuals would not finance, and have a different level of viability, size and not least risk profile than the Nysnø and other instruments that the government has launched. And they have a number of other measures. This means that government policy is in no way sufficient in this area either. Then I realize that many people are being scared, because they don't yet see the contours of the new green jobs that all these companies say are possible, but that the government fails to finance, so that it can be realized. So the possibilities are many. The government helps to make them less realizable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e722	What I don't understand after listening to parts of the posts from the left-hand side of this room is who in the business they're talking to, when they think that sending a tax bill to business now is the right policy. Right-wing policy is not difficult to understand. We want to cut the tax on working capital. And the fact that SV is struggling to understand what capital in work is almost gets to be their own challenge, because there is no one in the business community and among those who create jobs in this country, who is struggling to understand it. Working capital is money invested with a desire for return, and it is obtained by investing in enterprises. Taxes on working capital are not about yachts; they are about fishing boats. Taxes on working capital are not about luxury cars; they are about trucks. Although we have received a report that says something about how corporate owners on average have had liquidity in the period 2005-2017 or not to plan out or pay the tax on working capital, I am sure that if we ask company owners today, the picture will be quite different: that much more is struggling now. So we are in an economic crisis, the largest country in the world has experienced since the war. When the economy is down, the worst tax on working capital comes out. Because even if the companies fail, the owners still have to pay taxes on the value of the machines they own, the office space they work in, and the goods they have in stock. Where should this money be taken from? Well, they actually have to take them out of the company to afford to pay the property tax. They'll have a double penalty. In Stortinget, we have been working hard since 12 March to help businesses and businesses over their knees. We have done so politically. What amazes me so much is how the Workers' Party and SV can handle how they provide crisis support with one hand, but will take more money into tax with the other. I want to underline: the hand that takes more money back, it does not take money from everyone. No, it takes in more money from the Nordics who own their own business. Foreigners are getting away, and I think that's extremely unfair. If representatives from the left take the trouble to travel to the maritime yard industry along our coast, especially in the North West, I can promise them a completely different report than the one that was presented by the Frischsenter. They'll get a crystal clear message that the last thing they need now is increased taxes at a time when they're doing everything they can to save corner stone companies, they've lost all reserves to survive, and they're trying to look ahead by once again turning to new markets. We have to create more, not more treasure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e737	Norway is doing well, and the communities in the districts are doing well. You wouldn't always think that if you were to listen to the Center Party. There's no way how bad and difficult it is in the districts. We remember all the NRK check – the fact check – around Vedum's claim that the government is centralizing. He replied that fact-finding failed the debate, that he was tired of such fact-finding. The centre party has long had creative realities, and the last in Trøndelag is that it is a district uprising. It's possible Arnstad, Vedum and their friends are swirling up a riot, but the feedback I get when I travel around is that it's good in the districts. The Solberg government is building a city and building it together. You've invested 80 pst. more – 80 pst. – in traffic since 2013. In addition, the EEA Agreement ensures access to important markets for industry, corner stone holdings, in districts, and the salmon industry actually received an export of more than 100 billion. kr in 2019. Then it's ready. And there too, the Center Party is trying to make it look like you're insecure, that things aren't on the run. It's a delusion. People in the districts will feel safe. I've been traveling around the last few months with two other trophies and taking the tempo on standby in our county. We have occupations like police, fireman and midwife, respectively. What we're finding is that things have gotten better. Yes, the center party should be right that there are some challenges, there are some holes, but basically things have gotten better. The emergency officer in Åfjorde told us last week that the preparedness in the municipality had never been better, and there was also a community merger. So it turns out, once we've been on these laps, that fire and rescue can actually be used and want to be used as a larger preparedness resource. They have a unique structure, and here there is a potential for even better preparedness. But even that the fire service comes first, and that the fire service can be an even more important resource in the future, the Center Party is doing it to be problematic. The centre party is going to elections to stop development and go backwards into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e752	Differences in power and wealth are increasing, the climate and natural crisis threatens our livelihoods, and the Korona crisis has sent thousands of people out of work. These crises cannot be resolved separately – we need to see the major challenges together. We need a plan to build jobs, cut emissions and share goods and burdens fairly. At home in Eastfold, this is at the head of several matters. Over 8,000 children grow up in poverty in Eastfold. The growing child poverty could have been halted by a fair distribution policy, but instead the government cuts everything from spectacle support to children to child supplements for the disabled. It hurts too many families at home. The more provocative it becomes when unsocial cuts to those who have the least are accompanied by ever new tax gifts to the richest. We have just set a new record in billionaires in this country – 21 new ones in just one year. And we've got a report that shows that the richest pay a smaller share of their income in taxes than the ordinary people do. But the Right isn't satisfied, no then, now they're actually going to choose to remove the property tax completely. They're going to be zero valuers. People at home feel disappointed when unsocial cuts hit them, while the government arranges tax havens for those who have the most from before. And the betrayal of the Eastfold society only gets bigger when the government threatens the most important project of value creation, climate and transportation in our state. We've been fighting since the 1990s to expand a modern railway in Eastfold, but also in Buskerud and in the states now called the Inland. It's a completely necessary railway development, so that people can take the train and not the car between cities, and so that we get more of the freight on the railway instead of on large trailers. That's why people in the affected states are provoked when the Minister of Transport has now created uncertainty about the entire project we've been fighting for for at least 20 years, and we've been promised. People are cursed – rightly – when they see the government rushing on a billion-dollar highway between Oslo West and Bærum, while at the same time they want to cut in our railway development. We can't accept that. If we are to solve the economic crisis and the climate crisis, we need a modern railway that cuts emissions and creates values. Double tracks through former Eastfold and the other counties must return on track. If we are to stop the growing child poverty, we need a fair distribution policy that does not create billionaires, but creates opportunities for everyone. And SV's green new deal does just that -- it's a good deal for Eastfold and for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e765	It is good for the representative to be involved, but one must try to avoid bans as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e770	I'll try to stick to the good expression. Many climate-related decisions are taken with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The most important thing is that these decisions are not taken to make life more difficult for people, but there is a need to introduce measures to produce a result in terms of lower emissions. Then I think it may be as important to be able to reverse measures that do not work, as to be able to introduce new measures. In Norway we have spread over 10 000 industrial holdings throughout the country. Only 100 of these have a combustion plant larger than 20 MW and are therefore part of the EU ETS. All the other companies are included in the so-called non-quota sector and are obliged to pay the CO 2 tax in Norway. These smaller businesses were to be protected from the quota system and protected from the larger ones. The quota price has this year varied between 250 kroner and 300 kroner per tonne of CO 2, while the Norwegian CO 2 tax is 508 kroner per tonne and is scheduled to be increased by 5 pst., to 533 kroner, in 2021. So we're going to have to burden the smaller companies with a cost that's almost double the cost of the larger ones. I think it was these companies that the Prime Minister took up his post. There are 150,000 to 200,000 jobs in these companies. I would like to remind the Prime Minister that it must be possible to reverse decisions that one sees not fulfilling what was intention. No one has been served that these businesses are being laid down or flagged out of the country. In shipping we have now had a similar problem. It may appear that all ships above 5000 gross tonnes are entering the EU quota system, a system in which Norway is part, and this will now also apply to all Norwegian ships above 5000 gross tonnes. The problem is that most ships that go along the Norwegian coast are not of such size. They will thus not be part of the scheme, but will have to pay in return a strange charge that is almost twice the current allowance price. Norway is one of the very few countries that have introduced a CO 2 tax on marine fuel. We then come in a situation where the larger ships get reduced their CO 2 costs, while the smaller ships have to pay almost double up. It has also led to a decrease in fuel sales in Norway, while analyses show that traffic has increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e796	We have too few kingdoms in this country. We have too few rich and too few rich who also have risk capital. Had we had several of them, we would probably have got someone who had bought a forest in the Nord-Trøndelag or in the Trendelag otherwise. The 10 pst. the richest paid 38.8 pst. of all personal taxes in 2017. There'll be some nurses and teachers of it, so there's more tax than from the 70 pst. at least. If you compare it to the red-green period, you're going to contribute the 10 pst. so-called richer now a little bit more than then. Yes, we have a little too few kingdoms. Who are the so-called rich ones who pay taxes on wealth on the so-called working capital? Yes, it is those who own the fishing boat, the excavator, the tractor, the furniture manufacturers, who are entrepreneurs – that is, ordinary employers. It's the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party think it's very wise to send an extra tax bill. I see that the representative Lysbakken calls for the Right to be a spokesperson for the emotional life of these so-called rich, these employers who create jobs every day. Jan Vindenes from Sotra sells the chain, and he sells the chain all over the country. He is also quite frustrated by the wealth tax and paid it in the form of 25 tons of chain outside the commander's office in Mountain. He doesn't wash in money, but he's lashing in a chain. So if the wealth tax increases, or is kept at what's today's level of working capital, then we hit those who create jobs, who are there to just create a welfare state for all of us who in periods of life need that welfare state: school, health, social security, personal assistant. The Workers' Party is therefore planning to impose this special tax on Norwegian companies. You can only think of the furniture manufacturers that lie wall to wall with IKEA. It's called discrimination, and it's called tensioning under Norwegian working life, which every day creates jobs that form the basis of what's our welfare state. And the Socialist Left Party – I heard yesterday about how the representative Knag Fylkesnes himself tried to believe that cutting the wealth tax is not a business policy. So to me it's going to be the top of rhetoric, polemics and false politics. The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, said that there was discrimination and diversity policy. Yes, it is, but not as SV understands how differences occur. It is a pre-allocation to foreign enterprises rather than the Norwegians, which are subject to special tax. It affects jobs and serves no one.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e817	2020 has been a heavy year for many. In particular, this has happened to our older people. A lot of people have been sitting alone. They've known solitude, and they've simply been anxious. It makes me very bad to think of those who didn't get to say goodbye to their neighbors, or could have the family around them lately. That's why it was a big victory when the Progress Party got a majority for 400 million. kr to the action package for vulnerable elderly now in our own country. These funds come out to municipalities and volunteers throughout the country in these days, and only in the West comes almost 43 million. kr. The Progress Party is also the guarantor of a settlement with inhumane practices of corona rules. I and a lot of others have been upset to hear the stories that related to, for example. the persons with reduced development have been refused visits to family members. It's about thousands of people who have been denied visits by their loved ones during the pandemic. It's simply a scandal, and I'll call it a violation of these people's rights. It is very serious that municipalities have interpreted the legislation in the strictest way, or perhaps even roughly invented their own rules under the pandemic. This has led to the refusal of visitors to the developing countries, which is unacceptable. Last week I had TV BRA and Svein André visiting Stortinget. I have to say that I am very pleased that Norway's new TV channel, by and for developmentally disabled people themselves, has challenged both government members and large-scale representatives on what we actually believe about this inhumane treatment. Your votes must also be heard in this matter. It's just so serious. We are talking about the rights of individuals who have been outrun by public authorities, with potential for major consequences for these people's lives and quality of life. Yes, we in the Progress Party are simply shaken by the treatment that many have been subjected to. Last but not least, I think it is important to stress the responsibility of the municipalities in this case. I expect local politicians to take initiatives to clean up this too. We all have a basic need for social contact with other people. Developmentally disabled and elderly people who do not get out and who become more passive as a result of the pandemic are more likely to get poorer physical and mental health. The Progress Party cannot accept that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e828	It is striking in this debate that one by one from the Labour Party has been up on this pulpit and talked about the fight against inequality, but hardly one person has gone up here and talked about the school. Hardly a single person has gone up here and talked about the quality of the education our children meet in the classroom every day. It is striking because we in the Right know that although government spending on leisure cards, free core time in kindergarten, cheaper SFOs for low-income families and the possibility to take professional letters in the introduction program – few more in the job – is important, it is not enough if children do not learn to read, write and count at school, if their parents have everything to say if they finish school or one, and if quality differences between schools are trivialised and explained away. It is not possible to combat inequality when the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are in the queue first in order to prioritise everything else in school than what is most important for students' learning when they want to reverse the government's Teacher's promise and no longer demand that teachers in Norwegian, math and English be professionally up-to-date, although the research is clear that teachers are the most important factor for students' learning when they want to remove transparency about results in school, so that it is not possible to know if the students learn to read, write and calculate well enough before many have fallen from before the exam grades from the 10th grade appear in the post when they expressed doubts about the absence limit, one of the measures that enabled us to celebrate yesterday that high-ranking students are completing secondary education when yesterday's Workers' Party will suddenly no longer say whether they are for first-class reading, writing and calculation training, even though we know that the Knowledgelift has just led to much better reading by the youngest children in school and that progress has been particularly high in children with a minority background, A good school is essential to combat social differences. It's really just looking at the Oslo School. It's a school of 90,000 students. 40 pst. has a minority background. Due to a systematic 18-year commitment to basic skills, clear school management, good teachers and an active school owner who monitors, monitors and demands, high-ranking students complete high-level education. But now we see that the numbers point in the exact wrong direction at the lowest steps. After five years with SV, the Green Party and the Workers' Party, we now see that there are several of the youngest children who fall away, there are more who are struggling with reading, writing and billing, there is less focus on and follow-up of the students' results, the support device for the schools is gone, the bully is shouting warning, the school owner has abdied. This misguided school policy alone will lead to much more exclusion and inequality than any other measure discussed in this Chamber. Absence from higher education is the source of increased polarisation and less trust in a diverse society like ours. If we're going to create a society with opportunities for everyone, we need a school that sees every student, and we need politicians who actually understand the value of a good school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e855	When I hear the debate on city and district, it sounds like there's a misguided policy that makes people move to cities. But most people actually thrive in the city, the entire 82 pst. by us live in towns and cities, and in the cities we can seek fellowship where we are accepted as the people we are. When there's a lot of dialect on the gay bar in Oslo, there's no reason for the lack of movement of state jobs from Oslo to the hometown. We want to enter the communities that the cities can give us, have the offers that only the cities can give us. But opportunities exist all over the country. Although Oslo has the highest productivity and the highest value creation in Norway, we need to build the country together and realize the values Norway has been blessed with along the coast from south to north and valleys within. I fully agree with my colleague Liv Kari Eskeland, who said yesterday that Norway looks a little different from the Right angle. Where the opposition only sees problems, she sees opportunities in industrial towns and for food production. Where the Senterpartiet sees tweezers, the Right sees a tribute to Norwegian food producers. However, it is fully possible to recognise at the same time that Norway has changed, and understand that it also creates frustration in many. The opposition’s description of Norway must be the background to today’s leading article in the newspaper Nordlys. They describe the evaluation of police reform as alarming. Those who have tried to communicate to an uninterested press that the police provide better services now than before the reform are not surprised. But the counter-voices are obviously more important than measurable results. According to the regional manager Ole Johan Skogmo in Nord-Troms, preparedness, visibility and police services have improved – this following a police reform The Labour Party has run from and the Centre Party will reverse. Now they're going to compete to draw a picture of how bad things are in the districts and in the police. But when the representative Gharakhani said yesterday that competent people stop and employees cry at work, it seems that he confuses the situation in the police with his own big group. When the Central Party and the Workers' Party ruled the country, they had high economic activity driven by historically high oil prices, inherited taxes, higher corporate taxes, higher income taxes and higher taxes on wealth. Nevertheless, hospitals grew, because for ideological reasons they would not use private capacity, and there were 15,000 more poor children. There's no correlation between increased taxes and increased welfare when the red-green controls, there's only increased taxes. It will make it more expensive to hire people to create the values that finance our well-being and thus can help prolong the crisis. Several have said during this debate that Norway needs a new direction choice and a new government. No, we need the government that made sure that in February this year we had historically low unemployment and an economy that went so sweet, that will create more and include more and provide a green shift that creates opportunities across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e868	The right-wing government and the support party The Progress Party apparently wants living communities and growth throughout the country. The economy in many districts is going well, so is the Nordic region, and people live where the values are and not least are being created. It is only a pity that the right-wing government with the Support Party facilitates the opposite, that this development will not be allowed to continue. The description of reality and the challenges facing Norway is widely shared in this Chamber, but the answer from the Central Party on how to facilitate opportunities across the country is quite opposite to the answers presented by the Right-wing Government. The availability of sufficient and not least relevant labour is an ongoing challenge for many Norwegian enterprises and municipalities. For example, the problems of providing enough qualified teachers in District Norway should have been solved by strengthening the decentralised education provision. But what does the government do? Well, you put teacher training on Nesna and you don't want to take responsibility for it. The communication agency on the right thus manages to strengthen higher education, especially in Helgeland. It is only with the government representatives that a reduction in the number of students in Helgeland becomes a strengthening. Kindergartens without educational staff, schools with a large proportion of unskilled teachers and care for the elderly without the necessary professional competence are bad advertising for any municipality. But that will be the reality of many municipalities in the Nordic countries with the grips that the government will or will not do. The closure decision is a disaster for the Nesna community and will in the long term be a major crisis for the whole region and the rest of the Nordic region. Nesna has not only acquired competence for the municipalities, but has made it possible for those who live and want to live in Helgeland to do just that. The site contributed to stable population and a general localisation activity — concepts that are otherwise lifted. It therefore has effects far beyond Helgeland and in addition to the bachelor’s and master’s candidates that were produced. Today, the Prime Minister is free enough to announce a bet on so-called – I have to quote – flexible decentralised studies, just what Nesna provided, but which the government would not take responsibility for continuing. What has changed? Protrusion of the centre party? Thus, local communities regularly witness the closure of important services that provide the basis for housing, futures and relevant training in their neighbourhoods. It's a direction that the Center Party doesn't support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e881	Thursday was probably not a normal day at work for the apprentice Arne, who has his daily work at Kværner Stord. It would have been clear for a few days that he was the one to stand in the middle of the camera flash and the symbol of the new era. He, with a little help from the Prime Minister, would turn on the switch that started the Hywind Tampen burner – floating sea windmills that are going to generate renewable energy for Snorre and Gullfaks, what binds the oil age with the renewable age, which saw action behind the words about the green shift. The industrial venture that has now started with Hywind Tampen is under way. We're no longer going to get resources from sources that are once empty. No, energy should come from sources that will be there forever, like wind and eventually maybe wave, tide and sun. A little further in the street, a couple of hours later this day, another connection was made. The contacts with the Sustainable Energy Catapult were seen by the Prime Minister. We are in the process of testing equipment and machines to adapt to the new era, where the new forms of energy such as hydrogen, ammonia based on renewable energy, or energy where carbon, through carbon capture and storage, are to be deflected defensively into the geological formations of the North Sea via CCS. Here, everyone who wishes will have to test equipment to ensure that Norway will continue to be technologically employed in the maritime sector in the future, but also for other modes of transport. This is happening right now. We're in the middle of it. Business is going on. They've seized these possibilities. We are now building the bridge between the climate and the industrial worker. For the solutions that the climate requires, the industrial worker is going to create, not in the future, but they are doing it now. We are now building new and climate-friendly industries on the shoulders of the existing one, and we are basing this on our natural resources. The interaction between the state and private business shows concrete results in these days. It provides jobs, well-being and optimistic communities throughout the country. When the Labour Party goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. We're on it. It's a good time for business. The quays and facilities are rigged, and by enhancing their skills and continuing training, they equip the workforce for new times and new requirements. And this government has put in place a system and framework conditions that allow this change – not just allow, but it's a willful policy, and it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e905	‘The 2020 years must be the decade in which we solve the climate challenge’, said the Prime Minister in his speech today. Today she's very right about that, since we haven't come any more in the previous years. It is true, as the previous speaker said, that this is action, but the problem is that it is not action enough. The objective of the Paris Agreement is crucial if we are to save humanity as we know it. The 1.5-degree target appears to be lost, as it is roughly assuming carbon neutrality in the end of the 2020s, which all analyses today show is unrealistic. So the hope now is that we can achieve the 2 degree goal. That means that we who live on the planet in 2050 must be carbon neutral, that is, we don't release greenhouse gases, or that for every gram of CO 2 we emit, we also capture or bind one gram of CO 2. A lot of people, including me, are therefore happy about the carbon capture and storage efforts that have been leaked to the media and that have also been referred to from this pulpit. The Prime Minister stresses that if we succeed, it is a great potential both climate and economic. But that risk is great, great in the sense that if we push other necessary changes in front of us, we are at risk of coming to 2050 without succeeding either in becoming carbon neutral or in being able to capture carbon. In such a situation, there will be so much CO 2 in the atmosphere that climate impacts become as the Intergovernmental Panel describes them, dangerous and dramatic and potentially irreversible. There is no acceptable situation or risk. Therefore, other changes must also be made in parallel with a major commitment to carbon capture and storage. When the Minister of Transport warns that the grant to the states for zero-emission solutions for ferries and speedboats should not increase, it increases the risk that we will not be in place until 2050. I, who live in Bodø in Northern Ireland, don't get the opportunity to choose zero-emission solutions when I'm going to choose public transport. Differences between parts of the country are increasing. Such a transformation that we are now facing, which is more of a controlled revolution than a transformation, requires great support. Then people have to feel secure that they have a job to do in the future, then they have to feel that there is actually a fair and fair distribution of the stock, and that there is a fair and fair distribution of who will be allowed to reap the fruits of the policy. It cannot be the case that those living in places where there is little state support for further development of public transport are penalised for using cars when there are no real alternatives. It may not be that we will uncritically charge an air passenger charge that affects all parts of the country, when there are no alternatives. We need a policy that makes those who have the strongest back bear the greatest burden. We need a policy that reduces the differences between people, does not increase them, as does this government's overall policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e929	I'm going to talk about something that happened two days ago, which illustrates an important principle in our country of law. The rule of law is good in Norway, there is low crime, there are few in prison, and there is a clear distinction and an understanding of the distribution of power between magnificence and government, so that we do not interfere with what the police and the courts do. It has become a custom not to involve government members or poachers in police investigations or in criminal proceedings by the courts. It is a very fundamental principle, and it distinguishes Norway and the countries that have it, from authoritarian states, where politicians would like to try to get involved in what the police had to do. Can we be absolutely sure that this will remain so in Norway? I am a little uncertain about what happened on Sunday. What happened on Sunday was that a dead man was found in Kristiansand. It's been investigated as a suspicious death; that's all the police say so far. But former Minister of Justice Per-Willy Amundsen – he is not here; I have asked him to come here because I wanted to challenge him on this, but there are others from his party here who can take it to him – despite what the police say, say freshly about the matter, and direct the search light to the violent left, who it might be, as possible perpetrators. He also suggests that it is a political killing. The police don't suggest anything like that. They don't know anything about any perpetrator or motive, they say. All they know is that the man is dead, and that the matter is under investigation. Is this a religious theme? Yes, I believe so, because it concerns the fundamental principles and understanding of our legal state. Of course, a big-time politician should have freedom of expression, but a big-time politician should also express himself in line with the constitution and the principle of power-sharing, and it does not do so before Minister of Justice Per-Willy Amundsen in this case. He does not respect the distinction between the Storting and the independent state of law and the independent prosecution authority. He doesn't respect the fact that the police have to work in peace. Rather, he wants to influence the police's work by giving them some kind of guidance on the direction in which they should direct their investigation. It's very serious, because in that way, former Minister of Justice, and now a member of the Justice Committee, also contribute to weakening the independence of the police. If his principle applied, the police had to deal with political signals in their investigation, which is so fundamental to our legal state that I believe it is totally unacceptable. My call now goes to the next speaker after me, who is a member of his party: that he takes it into the big crowd and discusses whether this is a form of work that more in the Progress Party stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e940	I had not told myself to answer the previous speaker, but I recommend that he go in and read what party leader Siv Jensen has said about the same matter in the media, so the representative may get a slightly different answer than he says from here that the party has. What I was going to talk about was what the government said in the message on Friday, that they want an effective public sector. That's a goal we're all a few in. The best thing for most people is to live their lives without interference from the public, but once there's a need for a meeting with the public, it's going to be an experience that you're going to meet as a customer, not as a problem. I don't know if everyone who's met in the municipalities' construction companies experiences that they're customers. At least a lot of people experience that they are a person who has to pay dearly for themselves. Therefore, I am very pleased that the Consumer Council has focused on the area of self-sufficiency and on the rather strange construction that Norwegian municipalities can decide for themselves what to pay for a service they perform in a monopoly situation for their inhabitants. In their report from 2018 they tell us that a standard simple construction product costs on average NOK 13 000, while the most expensive municipality will have NOK 46 000 for this. It is a little special that one municipality thinks that self-sufficiency is NOK 46 000, while the average municipality thinks that self-sufficiency is NOK 13 000. This year's report from the Consumer Council is about merged municipalities, and then we see a strange system. Where two municipalities merge, one should think that then one does it the most effective way, like the cheapest of the two. It would make sense that you see how the best municipality of the two does it, and then you stick to that standard. Unfortunately, we see that a lot of merged municipalities do the opposite. They sit down and see what's the most expensive way to do it, and then they put themselves on the standard that the most expensive municipality has. The verstings in that report are Lwagal, who has a huge increase, and Björnafjorden, in my home district, who has put on the most expensive model. Of course, one may have replaced Progress Party vocabulary with Work Party vocabulary, but at least the image is clear: Merged municipalities unfortunately add a high list. That is why we are tabling proposal No. 36, which states that the Storting must put a roof on such a self-cost area, where they rely on the cheapest and best practice, instead of the most expensive practice. We can no longer have a system where the inhabitants have to pay more for a service than is strictly necessary, and when the municipalities have a monopoly, we need a system from here that ensures that the inhabitants get more reasonable services. Mr Difor is proposal No. 36 a good proposal from the Progress Party today. I take up proposal No. 36 and 37.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e959	The representative Helge André Njåstad has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e964	The Central Party will pursue a policy of services close to people throughout the country. We're all going to have equal opportunities to live a good life. Targeted measures are needed to ensure industrial development, jobs and well-being. KS's calculations show that the municipalities have so far incurred additional costs of 27 billion. kr as a result of the coronary eruption and the pandemic is still in progress. This comes up to a pre-pressed local economy. When several municipalities see negative and red figures in both budgets, births and health of an ageing population, pressure on municipal borders and efficiency does not help. Efficiency is all required in operation. The same applies to enterprises that have to convert and tackle a changing world. The Central Party wants more business throughout the country, including: through reduced corporate taxes and travel income tax. Broadband and infrastructure are a prerequisite for working in today's society. This can be done, for example. to be put in place through building-growth agreements. Municipalities and county industrial funds and the construction of broadband have shown considerable and targeted efforts for future jobs and value creation. Today's Right-Handed Government, with the Prom Party's support wheel on the tow, is taking action against the cities in urban growth agreements. Cities are good, but the Senter Party wants the whole country on the bet. Both the wit and the values are scattered. In addition, municipalities and county councils have a large statutory responsibility for schools and care provision. New curriculums for the entire education cycle from 1st grade to even higher education provide additional costs for the empowerment of teachers, the purchase of teaching materials and concrete implementation. When the course was cancelled due to the coronary outbreak and employees must be at home by signs of illness, the introduction is under pressure. On top of this there are several places new organisations and administrations after coercive municipalities and counties. The government does not practise divide and rule, but coercion and starvation feed. None of the parts work in the long run. In a review of the exceptional transfers to which Øyer and Trysil municipalities have now received, there is a large and real under-coverage in relation to the actual costs incurred. Calculations show that in Øyer municipality is the sub-coverage so far about 10 million. kr and for Trysil 9 mill. kr. On top of this, there is a large and uncertain tax failure, estimated at between 10 million. NOK 15 million. kr. The two municipalities have only been compensated for a little over half of the costs incurred until now, and there are still three months left until the end of the year. We know that the cost is going to increase. The centre party will pursue a policy for services close to people, and more effort and resources will be required.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e979	First of all, I would say that the Left thrives in government. It's tough thanks, it's a special situation we're in, but taking responsibility and prioritizing is one of the most important things we do in politics. We have plenty of opportunity for that now, we've had it in the last few years, and we want it in the future. Norway is well quiet. When we look back in some years on 2020, it's going to be the big coronary year. In Norway, compared with others, we have few infections. We're well organized. We have money on the book. We have a high-level population, which is possible to join the team. They understand information, and in Norway we are good at doing. 2020 will also be the year when Norway reaches a climate target. It is the year of record Norwegian food production. There's probably a record high yield in the forest, even though we're not completely finished with the year. It is also a year when it blows well, the sun shines and the water runs in the hydroelectric power plants. Also renewable, we are uniquely well off, although there is a bit of headwind for wind right now. We're going to deal with that in the Stortingen beyond the fall. But up in this, I don't understand the confrontation you're going to have between the city and the country. There are, of course, all these resources in the districts, whether it's power, food or wood, and we're facing a solid green opportunity in the circular economy. The left has been a driver to get the 200 million into the circular economy and the bet on it. It's a cross of thought with the consumption habits we've acquired, that we have a little bit of ease to throw things, and that the amount of waste is increasing. We have to use the products a little longer, we have to reuse and reuse. I also want to say that it might be an equally big challenge for us that the green shift can turn blue, that everything is going to happen along the coast, because there we have great resources in Norway. But we also have to bring the mainland, and since I'm from the Inland, I have to point out: it is important to bring also the Inland in the green shift. We are a region with not so many large investors and capitalists. Much happens in the direction of the public. We are good at organizing ourselves, but not so good at exports in all parts of the Inland. But there's also a lot going on here: we're building a four-field road, we're building double tracks, we've got a university at Gjøvik and a freight package at the Inland. Everything is in the way that we're going to be part of this, and with the biotechnological environment that's under construction in Hamar, and many wood-working actors that see opportunities, there's also great opportunities in the circular future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e994	Yesterday, the representative Gahr Støre said in an article: ‘A strong welfare state is good for business.’ But in the Right, we are probably equally concerned that a strong business life is good for the welfare state. Without that, we cannot finance the sustainable well-being we want. It can't be negative that businesses are doing well and making money. It's a sign of health in the Norwegian economy. That's what lays the foundation for growth in order to employ more people and make it through the green transition we're in the middle of. The experience we have gained through the coronary crisis shows that there are employees in the private sector and not in the public sector who lose their jobs. It should be a waker for the opposition as well. In the right, we're concerned that we're not going to tax anymore, but create more. Every year in the last seven years, the Workers' Party has proposed an increase in taxes of between 10 and 15 billion. kr. At the same time, the promises are much more expensive than the party's tax increases. Whether these are empty promises, or a hidden tax bill when people and businesses need it the least, should be unspoken here and now. The central party still claims that the government centralizes, "at least what it will cost", as the representative Nordlund said yesterday. That's not true. More than 1200 State jobs have been moved out or created outside Oslo. Governments are committed to facilitating business across the country, keeping tax pressures down, stimulating innovation, ensuring the efficiency of the public sector, supporting the EEA Agreement, which also provides district companies with important market access, and not least ensuring a secure local economy. The government has undertaken a large-scale simplification work and has reduced business costs by 15 billion. kr. It warns that next year we will reduce the reporting burden on business by another 10 billion. kr. With a travel lift of over 1 000 billion. kr, more focus on knowledge and research, more apprentices, more focus on professional and higher vocational education opportunities in the vocational schools, it contributes to growth and development in the districts. The opposition parties will reverse the reforms, recommunerate private services and increase the tax bill for the Norwegian people. And should it be a government change – yes, then the conditions for the private business will deteriorate. That's the last district that needs now. I think the representative of Greece said well yesterday when he said, "We do not solve the challenges of the future by dreaming back to the past."
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1011	When we talk about the state of the kingdom in these days, we don't know that it's been a very special spring and summer, and that we're going to go on for a long time like that. I believe that for all of us born after the war, and as we have experienced peace and growing well-being so far in our lives, it is in many ways a little unreal to deal with a global crisis like the Corona. But we have known the responsibility for the ability to limit the infection, and I have been proud of my own country for the way our authorities have dealt with covid-19, for the care shown to all of us living in the country, and for clear and regular press conferences on development and on how we should behave. But we have to endure a little bit more, while having other global challenges to deal with. I'm talking about climate and sustainable management of our natural resources. I'm talking about taking care of our Earth, so that it will be equal natural watches and clean for future generations as well. I am talking about a sustainable transition in large parts of the world of work, a work our government is doing well, and that reaps recognition internationally for the efforts and priorities we make. The conversion of Norwegian industry is well under way. We have a long way to go, but it's about doing more of the work we started with Hydro Karmøy in 2015, when we made sure that Enova had muscles to support a pilot project that produces aluminium in the world's most energy efficient way. The world's purest aluminiumworks in Norway! Success in this pilot can have a major impact on aluminium production in other countries, and it is Norway that is going ahead and showing the world that it is possible to produce with much lower and cleaner energy consumption than what you are doing today. It means something to those people who work there. Hydro is one of the most important jobs in my region, and it has been a good and important contributor to many families since the late 1960s, when my father also started working there. There is much that has changed in the halls from that time, but the most important thing is that there is still a solid workplace. It's just this green transition is about, taking care of people's work by converting, cutting emissions and not developing. Then it's also about creating new jobs and new jobs, and we do that when we've opened up to floating sea winds, and we do that when our Prime Minister declares that hydrogen is a bet area for Norway in the future. And we also do that for good when we now go in for carbon capture and storage, with Langskip. This is a good description and good examples of our government's responsibility, and not least that our bourgeois government is the right one to rule Norway for the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1024	More jobs and high employment are the main objective of the government’s work in the coming year. It is an objective that the Progress Party supports and is fully in line with the industrial policy of the Advance Party. It is in the private sector that growth must come. Better framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises are key. These holdings are already very important for the Norwegian economy. They're the backbone of Norwegian working life. 99 pst. by all enterprises in Norway are small and medium-sized enterprises and account for almost half of the annual value added in Norway. These small businesses keep living in the districts. If the local corner stone company disappears, the jobs will disappear, the income base of the municipalities will shrink, people will move away, and the offer of the remaining ones will be reduced. Local entrepreneurs who start up or choose to expand the enterprise also provide a living base for the districts. A good policy for small businesses is also good district policy. Last week I was on a tour of Finnmark, where I visited several companies, including a furniture store in Lakselv. It is owned and driven by two brothers who have their daily work in the company. It is a family business that their father started and that provides seven-eight jobs in a small municipality in Finnmark. They want to upgrade the business, which is worn out after many years of operation, in order to improve the conditions of employees and better customer experience. But they can see that, unfortunately, they can't afford it. They have to pay the property tax as a matter of priority. Then it's not about doing the necessary upgrades to strengthen the business, because it's the building that's worth it. Because that's not the way the Workers' Party likes to put it, that it's a tax on the rich. No, the wealth tax destroys ordinary workers and inhibits growth in the districts. The working party will maintain a clamp around the foot of the everyday wearers all over the country. Another challenge for the same furniture business is the highly anti-commercial property tax, which challenges industrial development. On 4 March of this year, a little week before the Korona hit the country, they received this year's invoice for property tax from the municipality of Porsanger, a workers' party-run town. It was almost doubled from last year to this year, and is a very bad greeting to local entrepreneurs who create jobs in small municipalities, and does not help to strengthen and secure local jobs. The Progress Party will continue to promote a business-friendly policy to strengthen and improve the framework conditions for Norwegian small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1035	In recent times there has been a great commitment around the old war school in Tollbugata 10 here in Oslo Centre. The classical building mass was listed only a few years after the great urban fire in 1624, and in 1803 this was given in gift to what is today the War School. The building is now partially overdue, it is an assumed maintenance seat suspension of approx. 350 million. kr and an estimated market value of 40 million. kr. As I understand it, until June of this year there has been a good dialogue between Defence Building and the Foundation The Old War School for the transfer of the building mass for a symbolic sum. The foundation has raised some capital, but not enough to compete for the building in an open bidding round. From a cultural historical perspective, it may seem right to allow the foundation to take over the building mass in order to ensure that our defence history is preserved, while at the same time rehabilitating and developing the building mass together with the charitable partners in, for example: business. There are large plans for the development of the Square. The venerable premises of the old war school can again be brought to honor and dignity through rehabilitation, rational use and access for the public, while both the War School and the Defence for the rest can still enjoy using parts of the building mass. Restaurants can be seen under the solid and historic arches of the basement floor, corporate events, rentals, offices, meeting activities and other things. By linking this with the plans that are for the Quadrature, can build simply a return journey to its glory, to the joy of future generations as well. In this connection, I would like to thank the two cadets that brought me and my colleagues with me on a visit last week. A more ardent commitment to defence history and also to cultural-historical building is to be sought for a long time. So thank you so much for a great review and a great commitment. In this respect, the Labour Party has a loose proposal, No. 33, to authorize the government to dispose of the old war school at a discount or as a gift to the foundation; The old war school. The party of progress does not reject this, but it is reasonable that the case should be further clarified before any conclusion is reached. The Progress Party will therefore not support the Worker Party's loose proposals today, but will take the initiative to raise the matter as soon as possible within the Foreign Affairs Committee or the Family and Culture Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1053	Politics works. Earlier in the fall, there was a great deal of attention around the Statistical Central Bureau's figures on the development of the population in Norway, and a centralizing movement pattern developed during the right-wing government. In 2005, when we took over the government from today's government party with the current prime minister as a municipal minister, the popular development went in the wrong direction with the Senterparti-eye. In 2005, 116 municipalities had a population growth, 249 municipalities had a decline. Our political opponents, from both politics and social life, or else, affirmed as a truth that these developments could neither be stopped nor changed. The central party was partly ridiculed when we claimed that district policy worked, and that the central party in government was to ensure a different development for the district councils. We got the answer in 2013. When we went out of government, there were 255 municipalities that had a population growth, 112 had a decline. So we would have flipped the number on the head. About as many as had fallen, now had growth, and vice versa for those who had decline. Centralisation may be braked or stimulated. Today’s government, which stands out as an eternity machine in centralisation policy, has stimulated the relocation of district municipalities through its centralisation reforms. For what is the status today? In 2019, only 128 municipalities had a population growth, 291 had a decline. We are, I'll tip, to the next year about back where we were when we took over the government from Right and Erna Solberg in 2005. After seven years of centralising right-wing people in government, most of our measures for balanced population growth are erased. Regional development funds and local food funds, etc. is cut, the means of transport are centralised, the fares are increased, Innovation Norway is much less district rights today than in 2013. The merger of municipalities and county councils, and partly by coercion, the so-called near-police reform and the closure of hospitals are just a few examples of centralisation measures. We can also add to the closure of traffic stations, Nav offices and tax offices, and we can continue to do so indefinitely. Politics works. You can choose which policies you want to pursue. Today’s government consistently pursues a policy that favours Norwegian districts, which centralises and gives less power to Norwegian regions and the smaller Norwegian municipalities. The centre part shall turn this moving stream again. We've done it before, we can do it again, because Norway needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1067	I would like to refer to one of the proposals of the Central Party in this debate, which concerns a central theme in the area of health. This applies to the proposal to ask the government to ensure that the common municipal journal solution, Akson, is quality-secured through a public hearing. Akson shall provide up to 291 municipalities with a new common journal system and, in the longer term, an interaction solution with the specialist services. The total cost of purchase and introduction is 22 billion. kr towards 2040. It will make it the largest digitisation project in Norwegian history. The Directorate for e-Health is now working too fully with further plans for disputed Akson, can read about in the media, and they hope that the government budget, presented tomorrow, will contain a clear signal. Since the summer, criticism of Akson has accelerated, including against the workings of the Directorate. It turns out that embedded consultants from PwC have been central in the preparation of the project, apparently on both sides of the table. Akson must also be seen in conjunction with the proposal for a new e-Health Act. The law will give the e-health directorate much power at the expense of the municipalities and municipal self-government. A number on Stortinget have now said no to the bill. That's good, because the promise would be serious for Kommune-Noreg. But if it stops Akson, it's uncertain. There are many people who now require Akson to be sent on a public hearing. The National Centre for eHealth Research states that they have not been asked for advice on the country’s largest eHealth project. The medical association will have a hearing and think that the consequences for patients are too great. They think the project needs to change course before it's too late. The trade union, which represents many of the health workers to use the planned data system for municipalities, also requires hearing. The trade union believes it is important that the hearing process sees the financial risk to the municipalities. Abelia, who is the NHO Association for Knowledge and Technology Enterprises, also requires a public hearing. When the Minister of Health is asked why the recommended solution is not being sent on the phone, Bent Höie answers that it has been suggested that the municipalities have the ownership of journal solutions. It's an evasive maneuver. A number of municipalities have agreed to a joint journal resolution. In fact, Akson is a government organisation for municipal cooperation, with social impact. Then it is the responsibility of the state to ensure that the solution is quality safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1079	The fact that Akson is not sent on a public hearing for quality assurance is also criticised by law professors for violating the government's own distribution instructions. We have had enough of IT scandals in the Norwegian health care system. Now Stortinget must take responsibility and vote for proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party, to the quality assurance of the Axon through a public hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1082	The crisis that has arisen since the response to the coronary epidemic has hit society hard. The measures have also hit cultural life hard. We have a cultural life in Norway that often depends on public funding and subsidisation, but an important supporter in our cultural life and in our cultural industries, as in the rest of society, are those who stand in and create their own jobs, those who often work with less predictability and less security than us others, namely the self-employed and also many freelancers. This is a group that ended up in the back of the queue, and that might have been a little forgotten when the first crisis packages came. Gradually, this group also received its own arrangements, arrangements that the government proposed to wind up at the end of this month, but as we in the Progress Party are pleased that we have now in the last crisis package had an impact on extending the year. All of the events and great experiences we like to enjoy depend on just self-employed and freelancers, whether it's within sound and lighting techniques or other crucial functions that make it possible for the experiences we love to enjoy, what we live for, culture, to be possible. One of the arguments used to wind up the plan early is that the pot for the plan has not been used as much as it was assumed. That's the same argument we've seen for some of the other schemes as well, that what's used by the pot is less than what was assumed. When the crisis is not over, it is also wrong to close the measures. We have to assume that the scheme provides for many who are in crisis, fighting for both the future and survival, but still do not qualify for payments and experience getting between two chairs. This is a serious problem for perhaps most of the arrangements that we have set up here in Stortingen with the right intention: that many who are in crisis still fall between two chairs. It might be just as important to look at that part of the arrangements: how we catch up with those who are in crisis, but don't get payments, rather than just establishing new arrangements. In the case of both the compensation scheme for enterprises in general and schemes for freelancers and self-employed persons, less than 40 pst. of what was assumed to be used. It is not because there are few people out there who experience income failure and great uncertainty for both income and the future, but because many experience that they do not qualify and not reach the criteria set. I therefore hope that the government will look closely through the criteria and look carefully through the arrangements to see what can be done to capture more of those who are in crisis, but unfortunately do not qualify for the arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1093	The Workers' Party's message about a stronger community and smaller differences is about people's lives, about everyone having a job to go to, a payroll to live off, a place to live. It also includes those who have short periods of residence in Norway. No political tasks are more important than getting people a job. Work is the key to the rest. Own money, the sense of mastery and increased dignity, self-occupancy, good health, better integration and social life – all of this will be easier if you have a job to do. High employment, a safe, serious and organised working life based on permanent jobs, good welfare systems, the single school and equal rights to education have made Norway a country with small differences, high social mobility and a high level of trust and cohesion. This model of society is the most important tool we have for achieving even better integration policies in Norway. Too many of those who migrate to Norway remain out of work or fall out after a short period of time. Good integration is about high ambitions, better Norwegian education, early skills mapping and greater opportunities to get people to work. In short, the key to good integration is language learning and work. We need to increase the commitment to formal competence for immigrants in the new introduction system. The establishment of the new law on integration is a proper development and essential to improve language and social education. But it will cost more, and KS is worried. Who's going to pay the bill? The municipal law clearly states that new statutory tasks must be followed up with money for the municipalities. Nothing indicates that the government has thought so far. For the Workers' Party, it is obvious that municipalities are given the necessary means to qualify participants in the courses as best they can. Is the government willing to give priority to this? In the future, we need to focus more on the possibilities of working practices and on Norwegian training in working life through the Programme for Industrial Norwegian and Labour Norwegian. In particular, we should increase the use of vocational training models such as the Helsfyr model and the Glopen model, where students get a combination of school and work practices from the start, so that language training becomes more effective. If we set high targets and start early, we can get better integration than today. Then we will see that several newcomers are able to obtain lasting work and support themselves and their families through a lifetime with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1106	Over seven years, the right-wing government has pursued a policy that increases the differences between people. They've privatized and cut our welfare. They've weakened the safety of our working life. Even I remember a post I made in this debate three years ago. At that time, I had just finished my job as a teacher at Baskød and Horten. I was talking about prisoners who were rehabilitated with Subutex in prison, but I also talked about the possibility for people to come back to society – rehabilitated. As several of you are aware, I have not put away this capist. On the contrary, I have discussed with the Minister of Justice after the Minister of Justice after the Minister of Justice — yes, good President, you see where I want — that we are going wrong in our main institutions of social security. Good prisons have been laid down, centralisation is well under way. Rehabilitation in prisons is not possible as a result of unworthy cuts to a sector that cannot now run faster. We have the world's best trained prison officers here to land, but they don't give them confidence or time to do the job they're trained to do. After meetings with trustees from prisons all over the country, I hear about pointless target management, where employees spend an unnecessary amount of time reporting and ticking forms. The reason why this is both pointless and hopeless is that good employees all over the country count and report on things that really don't count. When important rehabilitating work such as rushing, nurturing and life-stressing is replaced by a film evening or a walk at a time, it really makes no sense to check in forms of completed rehabilitation arrangements. The Labour Party believes that enough competent people at work get the job done. Then we'll listen to the employees, and we'll give them confidence to carry out the job they're assigned to. But instead of building the country, Right wants to privatize it. They produce solutions to issues that nobody thinks are a problem, for example: when they want to privatise our prison transport, when they want to reorganise the criminal justice system, when they put down well-functioning prisons. None of the employees or trustees I've met in these years are calling for these solutions. On the contrary, they want to trust and hit well enough to do their job. The right hand side consistently answers questions no one has asked. The working party knows that we're getting more together than each of us. The Workers' Party will make our common welfare state stronger, and we want safe work for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1121	It has been a long time since Norway last had a review of overall preparedness. The Willoch Committee presented its investigation in 2000. Norway’s previous Defence Commission, which has traditionally been the Emergency Commission, made its report in 1992. Society has changed considerably over these 20 years. The threat picture is unpredictable and unpredictable. Here in the country we have experienced terrorist events that came as lightning from the clear sky. Only in the last year are most of the heads turned: pandemic, low dollar rates, falling oil prices, high perm and unemployment, concern for climate crisis and costly remedial measures. The main powers are back. It's ground to create and bring about a crisis that can have a great impact on our country, for those who want it. Preparedness means being prepared, having something ready to use when needed. Someone has to be prepared for something more than day-to-day. Additional manning and equipment, spare parts and medicines stocks, infrastructure back-up solutions, coordinated testing and practice plans – Norway has been proud of solutions over several years only through international cooperation and global solutions. Bearing bearings is economically burdensome. The most serious thing is that this is as prominent in the public sector as it is in the private sector. Internal billing, tender procedures and New Public Management have systematically reduced preparedness. In the last few years, tendering for the development and operation of central infrastructure in Norway has been opened. Market liberalisation and increasing foreign ownership of Norwegian infrastructure or key national businesses pose major preparedness challenges. When crises hit us, nations turn to secure their own population. We are exposed, have one main road and rail north-south. We have a lot of value creation along the coast. We are one of the world's most digitized societies, with great vulnerability. The digital space allows for data breach, espionage and impact campaigns to harm business and policy decision-making bodies. We have a good telecommunications network, but low safety maturity. The power grid needs to be renewed. We've built the defense and the civil defense. We have an understaffed police force that's struggling to adapt to the near-police reform. The Norwegian food value chain is characterised by few major actors involved in distribution and procurement. Norway produces less of the food we eat, and we become more dependent on the international export market. It's time for a new standby commission, as the Central Party has proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1138	Today we are debating the government's priorities and the government's profile, and it is not difficult for us in the Workers' Party to find priorities that we believe are going in the wrong direction. I am myself especially concerned with children and young people, and I want to use my post to focus on the government's unfair cut in the spectacle stand, which was introduced this year. The government cuts support for children with poor eyesight so that they are not given the opportunity to get support for this through a scheme. As elected representatives, we are contacted by desperate parents who can't afford to pick up expensive spectacles, new glasses, with optics, with the result that the glasses stay with the optician. Getting reimbursement from Nav is slow, and that makes it hard for parents to advance this. This is crazy politics, and it's a change in a system that worked well in the past. It is said that the most important sense we have is the sight, and I believe the government here has lost sight of the passage when they maintain the cut and change of a system that has worked. This creates more work for superiors. This should be reversed by the government when they listen to the experience they're having. The Prime Minister said in the change of lines with the representative Gahr Støre today that she saw the people behind the numbers, and that it was important not to make poverty traps for people. I allow myself to say that the Prime Minister says something nice, but does something quite different. Let me give you some facts about vision. The perception will normally have a crucial role to play in both motor and intellectual, emotional and social development of children. Experts say that about 80 pst. of what a child learns at school, information presented visually. A good view is therefore essential for all pupils of all ages to reach their full professional potential. We set up audiobooks and extra teaching resources, which I think is good for children who have challenges in their everyday school life, but now we've made it harder for those who depend on and need good glasses. Hearing aids are covered up until you are 18 years old, even though vision is our most important sense. I believe that the 18-year limit should also apply to visually impaired children. That cut in the spectacle stand would be an important matter for today's Right-Registration, is sad and unfair. I had hoped that the government could have listened to those who have their glasses on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1153	There are some paradoxes in the discussion we now have that I want to draw up. It is always said from the right-hand representatives that taxpayers pay too much tax, and they bleed, there are several who have said. There is a paradox in this that I believe the Storting must deal with, and that is the fact that Norway has one of the strongest businesses in Europe, one of the most valuable businesses. We also have Europe's highest employment – with the level of taxation we have and traditionally had over decades. Despite that, there are claims that the level of taxation is too high. The Prime Minister said in the change of lines with the representative Gahr Støre that the most important thing is to prevent exclusion. Listen to those words: ‘the most important’. The question then is, what is the reason for consistently proposing and implementing cuts for those who have the most difficulty? It is a great paradox, which is unexplained, of course, on the part of the Right-wing Representatives. It is because they later feel as if they do not hear this criticism. They don't take it up, and they can't defend it. It's a big paradox. Why don't they vote for the pension from the first heads, as an example of this, when they say that the most important thing is to prevent alienation? It is the political paradox in which the right side of course has always stood in terms of the relationship between tax and work. Siv Jensen, who was Minister of Finance for seven years, took up the situation of pensioners with the Prime Minister. I allow myself to say, where is the political fraternity going to be? I thought that was a dry piece. What is paradoxical, however, is that the Prime Minister let it go. She allows such a gross criticism of her own government to go, despite the fact that she is face to face with her own finance minister for seven years. It's a big paradox. Why doesn't the Prime Minister take that fight with Siv Jensen? Because it's typical that she allows the games on the right-hand side to take place. I do not think that should be done, and therefore it is necessary to ask: why does the Prime Minister allow this exactly to happen? Another paradox, of course, is what the Christian People's Party and the Left think about this. It's in the dark, and it's also interesting to try to clarify exactly this at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1164	September 21 was a big day in Telemark. Then the government came with the news that many of us had been waiting for: the government is investing in carbon capture and storage, CCS, at Norcem in Brevik. Years of distribution, plans and debates are over. The project is called Longship. There is no randomly chosen name. The Vikings' longships, with their characteristic shape and flexible and flexible construction, were something of the most plentiful of innovation and shipbuilding technology in their time. The longship is a known symbol of the Viking Age internationally and is associated with Norway in the world. Just like the built-in longships, we can now take new technology out into the world peacefully. This is the largest climate project in Norwegian industry ever. Norway has among its largest CO 2 point emissions. The cement industry accounts for about 5 pst. of the total emissions of CO 2 in the world. The capture and storage of CO 2 in Brevik will halve the CO 2 emissions. It's about catching 400,000 tonnes of CO 2 per year. The total cost of the project is estimated to be 25.1 billion. kr. It includes both investment and a ten-year operating period. The government's recommendation will have a government governance framework of 16.8 billion. kr. This means that the State expects to cover about two thirds of the costs of the project. Carbon capture and storage will reduce emissions, create jobs, make us world leaders before technology and help Norwegian industry secure good framework conditions. We know that carbon capture and storage are essential for Europe and the world to reach the Paris Agreement temperature measurements. Good climate policy should also be good industrial policy, and the project at Norcem cementfabrik is an important contribution to new jobs in industry. The project has wide support. LO, NHO and Norwegian oil and gas are examples of this, and the background is, among other things, the awareness that this helps to secure and create new green jobs. Many believe that this is just the start – the goal must be to build more of such facilities. I am proud that there is a civil government that is making the proposal, and I hope that there will be a broad majority here in Stortinget that supports the construction of full-scale installations for the storage of CO 2. Longships must be realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1197	There's a rebellion against centralization, and we need to know that what's happening now is not random. In 2014, the NHO produced the report ‘Population growth and centralisation against 2040 – driving forces and consequences of policy choices’. The report presented the implications of three different policy packages for the development of productivity, industrial structure, demography, labour market and housing prices and outlined the development of three different policy orientations through the following, LEDE and SNU scenarios. FOLLOWING is to follow the evolution of society that was at the time of the report. LEDE is to follow the evolution of society that is taking place today, i.e. to speed up centralization, exactly what the right-wing government has done since it came to power seven years ago. In other words, more attention is being paid to rural policy. SNU will give more activity in the districts, i.e. to invest in transport, land policy, business support, fiscal and management policies that make it more attractive to create jobs in rural areas. This will help more people to choose to live in the districts, in relation to what is happening in today's policies, where we have a large fall in the population of, for example, Northern Ireland. The value creation in North Norway will be 20 billion. In 2040, if the policy direction is turned to more district policy. The direction of right-hand operations, i.e., more centralization, will lead to 11 billion. smaller value creation. That means it's over 30 billion. the difference between more district policy and the continuation of the centralisation that is taking place today. Everyone in Northern Ireland will benefit from more district policy, including the largest cities. I have some suggestions for action: we can strengthen the economic opportunities of county municipalities to provide forward-looking boat and ferry services and to ensure communication to boat-dependent communities along the coast – especially in view of the fact that several coastal communities have been made worse by the recent changes in the income system related to boat and ferry operations. We need to maintain the Bergen–Kirkenes coast route as a real transport offer with daily departures. It is necessary to ensure that contracts concluded can be maintained. There must be subsidies for boat routes between Bodø and Tromsø, and we must have an obliging county lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1210	Outside my office door there is a poster with a drawing of a farmer plowing the ground, three fishermen pulling a fishing note, a blacksmith hammering on the amphibious, and a great industrial building. This poster dates back to 1933, and through the image the words «all the people at work» and the expression «city and land, hand in hand» flow. The first and most important promise made by the Labour Party to the voters was at the time – and is still – to provide safe work for all, or, as we now say, ‘security for work and security in work’. That is why the Workers' Party has, among other things: launched the North Sea Plan, a plan to be implemented through, inter alia: cooperation between the country and private investment. This is how we will lead Norway forward towards and with new technologies. It is a plan for how we can develop and not wind up the Norwegian oil and gas industry, an industry that forms the bridge for a greener future. The government's response to these challenges of increased unemployment and greater differences is like always arguing to remove the wealth tax. The representative Wang Soleim of the Right argued that both in the Political Quarter and here in the Chamber the report they have ordered and the report they have received is wrong – this report shows that such a removal of property taxes has an adverse effect – and that the wealth tax leads to a reduction in employment in Norway. And what does the government do as well? Instead of building on good and sound state enterprises and initiatives, these are pulverised and the services are put out to tender. The government allows commercial, private actors to take over ever new areas in our welfare. In the debate here in the Chamber, the representatives of the government parties take arguments in their mouths that show that they believe that when the welfare services are provided by private individuals, it is value creation, while they allow it through public employees to bottle the state for money and thus be a burden. We can't have it like that. This has to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1218	The beginning of this decade became much more dramatic than anyone could imagine. That is what we need to learn from the Korona crisis in the next few years – about health, about preparedness and how we can get to work in crisis response. But most importantly, we need to learn to be better prepared for the crises we know are ahead of us. The biggest crises we have to solve in the 2020s are avoiding catastrophic changes in climate and environment. Then we must not act as state councillor and head of the Højre Programme Committee, Linda Hofstad Helleland, when she thought incredibly that we should take less account of the climate and the environment in the future. She said that the green shift was from another time, and that we do not have that luxury in the future. I totally disagree, and I am very pleased that the Workers' Party's proposal for a new party programme has the climate and environment that surrounds the whole program. We need to resolve the climate crisis while creating new jobs. Because there's no contradiction, rather the contrary: it's absolutely true, what the leader of the international trade movement says, that there are no jobs on a dead planet. Therefore, we shall be able to reconcile the commitment, impatience and demands of the climate-stripping youth with the competence and value creation of all the women and men in the basement. It's not done by itself, it requires active policies. Then it was almost so I didn't think what I heard when I heard the Prime Minister this morning saying that she heard that more and more dreams of repeating the past errors with a state industrial policy. What kind of history books are there that are read in the Right House? What kind of mistake is the prime minister really thinking about? Is it the expansion of the hydropower that gives clean energy and money to the community? Is it the construction of all the industrial communities around Norway, which has taken power into use and sold world-class goods? Is it that we got a state oil company, which has managed to create jobs and revenues for the community that no other country in the world has done? Or is it Stadskog and the forest industry's use of our green gold? One thing is that, historically, the right has always opposed these proposals for active state policy, but claiming that it is not a policy that has served Norway well is difficult to understand today. Now we have to be as visionary and active as those who have gone before us have been. We need to have a hydrogen policy that is not primarily a factsheet that hydrogen is good, but that actually leads to jobs and technology. We must have a major effort on the capture and storage of CO 2, not hoping that there are people in Europe who should be more interested in projects in Oslo than what we ourselves are. We have to invest in jobs, so people can be sure that green conversion does not mean unemployment, but means the opposite. In addition, we have to make sure that the policy is fair and that it does not increase the differences between people. Today's policy is increasing the differences between people. It doesn't give all of the same possibilities for safe and free life and is the worst starting point we can have to get to the changes that we know about. That's why we need a new government – which cuts emissions, creates jobs, and reduces the differences between people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1243	In my previous post, I talked about the consequences of action against the Korona on cultural life in Norway. Unfortunately, there are many sectors and sectors that are struggling, and one of the sectors that may have been hit most by the corona measures is travel. In August, Avinor reported a 60 - p.m. drop in air traffic, NHO’s September figure shows that travel life has lost 30 billion. kr on the corona and that the turnover has decreased by 70 pst. The hotels report record-breaking coatings, one of the largest chains reporting a 20-30 pst coating. in Oslo, and thousands of employees of airlines, hotels and small and large enterprises throughout the country who are dependent on or associated with tourism, experience a lack of income and great uncertainty for their future. This is something we have to take seriously, especially because the prospects don't look good yet. We don't know when this crisis will be over. We don't know how long this loss of income and the measures against the corona will last. Much good has been done by the authorities, including low VAT on transport, hotel and travel products, but low VAT cannot compensate for lack of activity. And when hotels don't experience coatings, it's more about canceled conferences and that kind of event than for example. VAT rate. Although, more than ever before, the Nordics have holidayed in their own country this summer and fortunately it has helped many businesses, neither can it compensate for the failure we have seen. I have, together with my colleague in the culture committee Silje Hemdal, visited museums and travel businesses all over the country this summer, and although in many areas a large flood of Norwegian tourists has been experienced, we also see that cities have become losers. Unfortunately, the more we have succeeded in social distance, the more we have succeeded in measures against the corona, the worse the situation has become for many companies in the tourism industry. I am pleased with what the Prime Minister said in the VG yesterday that she hopes businesses will continue to arrange Christmas tables with good infection protection measures. It will help many companies that depend on that kind of customer. But as long as we're in the situation we're in now, where thousands of employees in aviation, hotel and restaurant industries have been abandoned or sanctioned and are experiencing great uncertainty for their future, we need to focus on improving the measures we have for travel businesses. This is not a crisis with a fixed end date. This is a crisis that seems to be going on for a long time. Then, too, the measures must be good enough and match the crisis we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1254	The local government sector is underfunded under this government. When the Korona crisis hit Norway in March, the municipalities in Norway had too little to go on. This determined the organisation of the local government sector. The municipal scheme from the government in the autumn of 2019 was the hardest in 15 years. Nevertheless, the municipalities have made a great effort during the coronary apathy. There is a huge amount of work done in kindergartens, in schools, in the new test centres, in home services, in hospitals, in sanitation, etc., with infectious diseases, infectious diseases, emergency services, information work and much more. The huge efforts of municipalities from the outset to tackle new outbreaks of infection have been crucial for national authorities to maintain control in the fight against the pandemic. This has put a heavy pressure on the finances of municipalities and on services, and so far it is the municipalities themselves that have taken most of the job and of the bill. Let me give you one example: Ås municipality in Akershus. Here, the additional consumption due to the corona has meant that the municipality has to cut off the welfare offer. Less than half of the additional costs of 40 million. kr is compensated by the State. The health centre for young people and students, for example, is sparse, and it is very unfortunate that the municipality has to sacrifice a preventative mental health service at a time when the need is increasing. And Ås is not an isolated case; there are many examples like Ås. Therefore, the KS and the employee organisations have asked the government for a meeting today. The local government sector is experiencing the situation as highly under pressure and has not received sufficient financial assistance from the state. So far, I have not seen proper insurance from the government that they put more money on the table to set up for the municipalities in a demanding time. On the other hand, most people have come to realize that the Minister of Health claimed that municipalities that are unable to make the budgets go up now do not have good enough financial management. The truth is that it is the government that has not prioritised the municipalities, and the government that should take its obvious part in the responsibility for covering the necessary expenses. Over seven years, this government has pursued a policy that weakens well-being by cutting the finances of municipalities, and the pandemic shows that this is not the way to go. The Workers' Party will make our common well-being stronger. Municipalities are a very important part of the welfare state. Well-being should cover everyone, wherever you live, and who you are.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1265	Big tasks should start, not think about, said Julius Caesar. It is also a good advice to the Right-wing Representatives and not least to the Prime Minister, who said in his speech that we need to create more, include more and ensure a sustainable society. Yes, I very much agree that this is the task, but when we analyse the Right Policy over seven years, what do we see? Well, then we see that the economic differences are increasing, the share of jobs falls, the number of accidents has increased dramatically from 2013 to 2019, the figure of young people is more than double from 2013 until today, exports are falling, and oil dependence has increased significantly. There is none of the trends in society that underpins our ability to create more, to include more or to ensure a more sustainable society on the Right Guard and with right-wing policies. All arrows point in the opposite direction. One does not follow up Julius Caesar's good advice that big tasks should start, not think about, because there is a lot of talk and little action. Now, until those degrees have been expressed over the last weeks and months that export promotion in Norway is extremely poor – yes, we have reports that slaughter the efforts of the Norwegian side – the government today comes with an export action plan to substantiate some of, let's say, our ability to carry the welfare community on. But it's pretty puzzled, what's coming. What has been a continuous tone, as one has defended as one of the major issues in this debate, is tax relief and the focus on wealth taxes, and one maintains the mantra that eliminates a mere wealth tax, more people have to come to work and it's going to be much better to do business – despite reports showing the opposite. I think the representative Ingerd Schou said it quite timely – I think that's what's inside the head of many Right-People – in this debate: «We have too few kingdoms in this country. We have too few rich and too few rich who also have risk capital. Had we had several of them, we would probably have got someone who had bought a forest in the Nord-Trøndelag». When the challenges are really quite dramatic, because the differences are increasing, the share of jobs falls, the number of disabled people has increased — young people, especially — the export is falling, and oil dependence is increasing, then it is misguided policies to focus on right-wing policies in the course of the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1281	In the change of line with the Prime Minister, the representative Jonas Gahr Støre said that it is immature to have ideological skyscrapers. I agree with that, and I think it is a pity to see that the traditional moderate left side that the Workers' Party represents has once again taken on its old-fashioned ideological skylights. The sociologists have always feared freedom of choice and market forces, whether in terms of freedom to choose radio and television channels, hospitals, telephone companies or kindergartens and schools. Also in this session the left-hand side has started a fight against private kindergartens and private schools. If they are to have an impact on this, the consequence is a poorer and more expensive offer to children and parents, because the cooperation between the state and the municipalities and the private kindergartens has been and is a very successful welfare reform. Private kindergartens have been important to ensure what is most important for many families with children, namely to provide adequate childcare facilities. We know that most of the private kindergartens are of high quality, they represent a great pedagogical diversity, they have consistently lower sick leave, they are effectively operated, and we are all well-known that private kindergartens are cutting supremely on parental studies. The question should be how we can learn from the private, not make life more difficult for them. The pursuit of private operators on the left is shameful. They should also praise the private kindergartens that actually give their kindergarten children a good offer and have helped to ensure that we have achieved the goal of full kindergarten coverage. The Education Committee now proposes that all kindergartens be owned and operated by public and non-profit owners. This will rage the kindergarten sector as we know it today, and it will cost the public almost 40 billion. to take over the private kindergartens. If only the municipalities and ideal actors are to be able to operate kindergartens, many kindergartens that parents and children enjoy will disappear. We see the same thing in the school sector, where the fight against private people is equally clear from the left. With primary schools, children and parents have access to upper secondary education and real-time vocational education, where they gain increased diversity, more freedom of choice and more learning between schools. The Progress Party wants to preserve this diversity of services because we know that all children are unique, they learn in different ways, and they have different interests. We respect that people want to choose differently, while the left-hand side is more concerned with who owns and runs a service than with the quality of the service. It is, as the representative Gahr Støre said, to be locked in immature ideological skyscrapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1294	We talk a lot about how transportation helps to connect the country, but what we don't think about as often is how transportation helps to connect people. I've grown up in a place where they from the east hated them from the west, and vice versa. People told me that you could risk being knocked down on the city if you chose to walk over the bridge at a party. Today it's quite different. I'm not sure why, but I think I know. It has become shorter and better to move from a to, island communities are linked to the rest through ferries and bridges, and for many it has become easier to live a place while working in the neighbouring municipality. We see each other more often, which is not always as simple in a country with such great distances. Transport is therefore not only important for those who own an enterprise to deliver goods to another place in the country, but transport is important for all those who work elsewhere than where they live, it is important for those who send their child out of the kindergarten, and it is important for those who do not get anywhere without a ferry offer. When things cost, it's important to remember why you do it. The next time someone refuses to implement an important transport project, the Right will remind them of why we are doing it: to link people in the country together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1305	"You have to hear a lot before your ears fall off," says an old saying. During the morning's exchange of views on pensions between former Minister of Finance Siv Jensen and Prime Minister Erna Solberg, it was very close. Siv Jensen pointed out that pensioners have had negative purchasing power developments for many years and wondered what the Prime Minister would do with it. It is quite amazing to hear that the finance minister who has himself been sitting on the money bag until 1 January of this year is trying to get rid of the responsibility she and the Progress Party have for the negative purchasing power development of the pensioners. Since 2017, the Workers' Party has made repeated proposals to regulate pensions as intended by the Stortinget, as an average of wages and prices. Then the pensioners wouldn't go into minus when others went into positive. But the Right Party and the Advance Party have always voted down our proposals. It's going to happen today as well, I think. Siv Jensen is also looking elegantly at the fact that it was the Progress Party with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in 2015, when the pensioners for the first time were reduced in purchasing power. She elegantly skipped the fact that her own government council, after consultations in Stortinget, promised to come back to Stortinget in good time before the social security settlement in 2016 with an assessment of what they called a "smoothing mechanism", in order to prevent pensioners from going in minus when others are going in positive. They even promised to assess whether this would include the settlement for 2015. But nothing ever came back. The government only stopped providing the settlement to the Storting from 2016. The Prime Minister's reply to Siv Jensen today was also strange to listen to. She said that the development of pensions has become different from that of the adoption of the pension reform. That's right. But then she said: The majority decided on the average pay and the price – the red-green government put it at pay minus 0.75. It's directly wrong. The increase in wages and salaries was adopted minus 0.75 as early as 2005. The right-hand vote was in favour. Erna Solberg voted in favour. You can read it in black and white in Ot.prp. No 37 for 2008-2009, page 156 and the corresponding Innst. O nr. 67, page 22, for those who are interested. The Right Party and the Advance Party still claim that they have given the minimum pensioners an increase of NOK 12 000. It's also wrong. The first to propose an increase in the minimum pension was the Workers' Party. The Christian People's Party supported it in the budget negotiations in Stortinget. The same thing happened two more years. The Solberg government has never suggested giving any extra to the lone minimum pensioners. The fourth time we promoted that proposal, we were downhearted. Then the Christian People's Party had gone to government. Neither Siv Jensen nor Erna Solberg seem to escape the responsibility they have to bear for the pensioners to fall behind year after year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1316	One of the lessons we should be left with after the 2020 derogation is that we need to have a business life that endures downtime. Increased taxes and taxes are not the solution, as some batches have a tradition of requiring – business too can be over-taxed. The most important thing we can do for our country, the welfare offer and each one of us, is get business going again. It must be easy to start and run a business. It is through private initiative that we create jobs and well-being. The government is stepping up its efforts to speed up the Norwegian economy again. The fleet's Elektro-Mek in Sandefjord is a good example of how a small private enterprise creates well-being. In 2018, the company had 17 employees, who had a value creation that contributed enough tax to pay two nurses, four years of police work, five parental leave and seven teachers. This means that the tax revenue from this small enterprise contributed to paying more public employees than the enterprise itself has, according to the DNB Ring effects website. It can be seen as a paradox, but we cannot escape the fact that it is the oil billions that make it possible to take care of vulnerable businesses and jobs. In the long run, we have to get more legs to stand on. We need to create more jobs in more industries across the country. Growth must come in private business, not in the public sector. We have to become less dependent on the oil. We therefore need to facilitate the creation of green jobs and a more sustainable future for business. If the business community wants to do that, they're going to have to make a profit. Different industries give different value creation. The hotel and restaurant industries average half a million in value creation per workplace. The fishing industry is 3.2 million. SEK in value creation per workplace, while the oil industry is SEK 8.7 million. kr. These are the numbers that give us world-class welfare offers. These are the numbers that give us hospitals, schools and cultural services. SV, the Greens and Reds will cut the oil industry. The Swedish Environment Party and the Greens will create major limitations or reduce fish farming and the mineral industry. SV and Rødt will create major restrictions or shut down the defence industry. Those batches should be required to respond to how to maintain the high level of welfare offered by those industries. A change of government where the Workers' Party and the Centre become dependent on cooperation with these anti-business parties creates uncertainty for a business that depends on stability and predictability. In the Right, we work every day for Norway to be the country of opportunity — a country where everyone has the opportunity to succeed regardless of background. It should be your abilities and effort that determine what you can achieve, not what family you were born into, or where you grow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1333	The violations revealed in terms of law and human rights to some 2,700 people with developmental disabilities, perhaps more, who were banned from visiting their private homes during the coronary epidemic, are serious. I assume that the government also sees the seriousness of what has happened, and ensures that all facts come on the table and take effective action. I really hope so. If not, we in Stortinget must take the necessary action. In order to show our concern and impatience, we have previously put forward proposals in the debate on weak groups under the pandemic – we need to ensure that the legal certainty of the developing and other vulnerable groups is in place. We need even clearer guidelines to ensure that the pandemic does not lead to other health crises and social crises for weak groups, as we have seen through this pandemic. The pandemic has also shown us that our psychosocial preparedness and protection of vulnerable groups are not good enough when dealing with a global and national crisis. It is the weakest who have been most vulnerable since the closure of the country and the introduction of infectious diseases. We need to be able to protect the population from infection, while at the same time protecting our vulnerable groups from unnecessary negative and illegal consequences. That is why we are raising this proposal here in the persuasion debate as a clear signal to the government. Sick if someone thinks that the Health Directorate guidelines were sufficiently clear, it must be remembered that a state of emergency differs from a normal situation, and therefore that crisis communication must be even more clear. The municipalities had a huge responsibility on their shoulders to avoid infection in the population and may not have picked up or understood well enough all the guidelines. One should have sacrileged himself against this situation and ensured that misunderstandings did not arise. The government has to take its responsibility for this rather than push the blame over to the municipalities, which I think we have seen a little too much of. Everyone has to learn from this. Had this been about a smaller number of municipalities, it would still have been serious, but different. In the case of 133 municipalities, maybe more, it clearly testifies to a serious system failure. We have to bottom this up, and it's not just about the number that's been affected, it's about why this could happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1346	I don't know how many people in this room follow the 113 series at NRK, where we get to follow health professionals through their everyday lives. But I hope the majority in this room have actually seen the series, which really puts us into the everyday life of ambulance staff in the districts. Sunday’s episode was strong when ambulance personnel are quoted as calling out every time it’s a call-out, it’s the torture of the election, and they’re faced with tough priorities. In the episode on Sunday we are witnessing a critical rescue work going on, where a man on Skjervøy has fallen into a six meter deep tank on a boat. It becomes very clear that the fisherman is badly damaged and that the helicopter must be called in. But the helicopter is 25 miles away and busy in another mission. While we're waiting, health professionals are doing heroic work. It's about life or death. While they are doing this assignment, the alarm goes again in the municipality, a young woman has been hit and has to go to the hospital quickly. The ambulance only has two people on guard and only one ambulance. What in the world are they going to do? The helicopter finally arrives at Schjervøy, and the hit patient must take the taxi down to the dock where the heavily injured fisherman is. With a second margin, the helicopter gets both patients before it sets the course for Tromsø. I chose this introduction to my post to highlight the vulnerability of preparedness in North Norway. In North Norway, there is often only one ambulance covering a large geographical area across several municipalities. Hospitals are many hours away, and we also know that the weather in North Norway can be quite tough. Helicopter readiness is therefore essential for people to be confident that assistance will come when they need it, including in North Norway. A week and a half ago, we once again saw how vulnerable the helicopter is in the north. Then the ambulance helicopter stood on the ground due to a lack of maintenance. It was actually just luck that made you have helicopter standby that week, because if it hadn't been for the corona helicopter that stood in Tromsø and could act as a reserve, North Norway had actually been completely unprepared. Tomorrow the contract with the corona helicopter expires, and you have chosen not to extend the contract. That is, if the regular ambulance helicopter is put on the ground next week, you are free of helicopter standby in North Norway. It's serious. I am therefore pleased that the Central Party has today proposed that we extend the contract with the helicopter, for health and preparedness in North Norway cannot be based on luck. It's actually about life or death, and it should be a requirement that North Norway should have a preparedness equal to the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1360	In today's debate, we have talked a lot about inequality – inequality between people – and in my speech yesterday I talked about how good it was that the government did not get through to the scheme they came to the Storting on compensation schemes for those who were being permitted. The large-scale intervention, with the Workers' Party at the head, has given those who had to leave work because of the corona, 16.5 billion. kr more than the government proposed. It helps to make a good contribution to reducing the growing inequality. We're in class with Spain and the United Kingdom, and that's unacceptable in terms of inequality. Today, in the debate on the throne, we have put forward proposals that will help to continue to reduce inequality. I have two challenges today. The first one goes to the right. Today, one million Nordics are employed in the private sector who do not receive a pension from the first penny. It's unfair, it helps to increase the differences, and we rarely hear about leaders who don't get a pension from the first heads and only have 2 pst. for the rest. So, to the right: if you actually believe what you are proposing in their draft programme, you should vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Labour Party. 18 today, because the former leader of the NHO said clearly that it was the Stortinget that should settle the pension from the first kroner, and the employees have supported it wholeheartedly. So if you mean what you write in the program, proposal No. 18th@item: inlistbox So to the Progress Party: if the pensioners are going to get better out, it is up to you to vote in favour of proposal No. 17. Then the pensioners will have their pensions regulated with the average pay and price, as the Storting's original intention was. In order not to be demanding for you in the Progress Party, we have indicated the impact of that proposal, so that it can help those pensioners who come out negative this year – one does not have to wait, one does not have to do any more. So I challenge you in the Progress Party, which all the time says you are occupied with the pensioners, to vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal No. 17 today. Then I will give an explanation of vote on proposal No. 44, from Red, which is intended to retain the supplementary pension scheme for survivors. It's announced a proposition from the government in just a few days. We're going to vote for that proposal today, but we're going to go right into the proposal, work on it and see if it's right to make some changes when we see the whole of the proposal that the government comes with, not just the benefits that are notified through the press.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1371	The President reminds the representative that the speech should be addressed by the President and not by the representatives of the Progress Party as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1376	One of the most basic tasks for us elected by the people is to contribute to the security of people's lives. It is to ensure that people, no matter where you live in Norway, in the countryside and in the city, know that you are being cared for, that the police are there when you need help, and that they come in a reasonable time. After listening to this debate, and especially some representatives from the Right Government Party, who give the impression that the police reform is a success, the clear signals are back that the Right is most concerned with employing ever new communication people to be safe in government themselves, instead of ensuring the security of ordinary people in Norway. Instead, one can come and join the country and experience people's everyday lives: in e.g. my own county, Akershus, in Sandvika, where one has had to hire private weight company on the medical guard because one can no longer rely on the police's preparedness, or on the Nesodden, where the police themselves say that they can rarely or never come within the period of response, or in Lørenskog and in Groruddalen, where criminal youths create fear and unrest in people's everyday lives. Yes, not only in those areas, but even in my own neighborhood on Sørumsand, the Länsmannskontoret is shut down, and we are seeing a development with visiting youth boys, with organized fights at the train station. One also sees that the local population organises and goes to nightfall to help ensure safety for young people and others in everyday life. It's a dramatic development. I'm recording that the Minister of Justice is sitting in the hall. I asked the Minister of Justice a few weeks ago about the number of missions where the police don't call the East Police District Operation Centre. From the introduction and adoption of the police reform in 2015 until last year, the number of missions that one does not meet from the police, where it was registered that one does not have the capacity, has doubled. So only from 2018 to 2019, there were several thousand more missions – only in East Police District, only to the Operational Centre in Ski – that were logged that one did not have the capacity. It affects people's security in everyday life. That's why we have to make sure that we reverse the trend. We have to get a more present police force, get more policemen with more resources to give people security in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1389	The representative, Willfred Nordlund, has spoken twice earlier and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1394	The representative of Benestad from the Right Government Party was up and outraged by how many state jobs one has managed to outsource to the districts. But it's not found in any other number material. When the government was halfway in its centralisation period, in 2016, it emerged that 86 pst. of the jobs which had been moved or newly created in state posts had come to Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim. It's not like it's district. Thus, when the state withdraws from a number of district municipalities, the local labour market is weakened – the variation that depends on ensuring that there are more jobs and creating confidence in the future. The future is created by the present. It is therefore important to be foresight and to see what is the experience so far, and to point the direction from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1401	The representative Heidi Nordby Lunde has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1406	The opposition and their rapporteurs accuse the government of tight municipal budgets, despite the fact that the local economy has been good during this government. The municipalities are given additional appropriations to compensate for the coronary intervention, but the coronary crisis has not led all municipalities into a difficult situation. Despite the introduction of property taxes by the Labour Party Council in Oslo, they have spent the entire space of action in their budgets on everything but preparedness for the inhabitants: from financing electric bicycles to the city's best means of purchasing 51 apartments for 222 million. NOK 18 million. kr on wardrobes that were never built. They spent $65 million. kr to buy up a private kindergarten that was ready for operation, in order to push private out of the market. The representative Gahr Støre dares to stand here and talk about ideological skyscrapers. It's not the government's fault that they're experiencing tighter budgets, there's a lack of priorities, and I suspect that the workers' party-run Oslo isn't the only ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1415	First, I just want to say that it's absolutely right to talk about ideological skyscrapers, because that's what the Right has put on. We have to create more. That's the message for the Workers' Party. Several hundred thousand new jobs in industry, along with tackling the climate crisis, are perhaps the biggest job of the decade and this generation. Because we all need a job, and we have to distribute it fairly. We have to redeploy. It is a fact that there have been seven years of initiative drying. This government talks a lot, but doesn't deliver. The Prime Minister chooses to roll over the direction of the Workers' Party. I would like to say that it is a very good direction for members of the programme committee to point out; it is an important direction for the country. The rallies to the Prime Minister fall on rock bottom. You call it the mistakes of the past and say that you can't do them again. What's this about? One can even ask: Activist policy – what is activistic policy or the past’s flaws? I would like to say that the spinning industry at Right House may have taken a bit of a hard time, because the solution to the Workers' Party means building a new industry in which the government will go in and contribute. I think that's wise. I think the country thinks it's wise. And this is also about the social contract: how, when creating a new industry, can you secure local ring-effects? How do you ensure that jobs are created throughout the country? Well, you do that by making demands. This is done by sitting in the driver's seat instead of even not being on the tour. In addition, you have to fill in the toolbox, the toolbox that this government has emptied. It is an instrument for the municipalities and for the regions to be able to participate and create on the basis of their assumptions and resources. It's called visions. It's called having ideas. It's called wanting something. It's called politics. Policies should also be based on knowledge. What we have heard from the Right's representatives about the property tax shows that you're not so busy with knowledge anymore. We have just received a report that says something about the property tax, but it just refuses to deal with it. I think you should think a little bit about it and spend a little more time finding solutions instead of spinning so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1426	To experience the everyday life, family life and community around us that is safe is a fundamental value for all people in all societies. The police survey shows that close to the entire Norwegian population, 94 pst, is safe where they live and travel. The Norwegian population gives power of government and police high trust. But trust is something we can never take for granted, we have to make ourselves fast-moving. We need to understand the evolution of society. We need to research and analyse. We need to meet the needs and expectations of people with the right measures, and we need to be able to show that the measures are working. We know the background for police reform. Both the 22nd of July Commission and the police analysis committee identified the need for changes in the police and officers' seat. The trust in the police was record low in 2012. The selection recommended both a structural reform and a quality reform to meet future challenges. The near-police reform is about building a police force that will as best possible create security where people live and travel. Norway has a dedicated and competent police force, which in several areas is ours and between the world's leading. But the Norwegian police were not well enough equipped to meet the challenges of the future and to solve the important societal challenge they have. Since 2013, the government has followed up all the actions proposed by the 22 July Commission. The advice of the police analysis was taken seriously by a broad majority in Stortinget, and the police reform is now in its final year. The necessary changes have been made to both structure and quality by the police, as recommended in the selection. The reform has been sweeping, and in the meantime there have been many critical voices, not least from the opposition here in Stortinget. All the time to keep in mind the background to the reform has given security that it has been necessary. For the government party, this is about holding a rough course through the storm. Now that I have visited several police offices in the Sogn and Fjordane geographical unit in the fall, there is little doubt that the reform is right. The police report back that most of the work has been done, and that one is now seeing the results. Things are treated faster, more like and with higher quality and greater professionalism. Policemen who were skeptical at the start of the reform have also changed their minds and minds about how new professional environments and better practices and working methods have strengthened the police in their work, and not least what this means for the legal security of people. We get similar feedback from all over the country. There is no expressed desire to reverse the police reform. To use the police's own words, the only thing we can achieve with it is a new reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1443	The languages of the throne shall draw up the large lines and point out the course for Norway. Although it's good and good to talk about catapult projects, thinking thoughts and climate-friendly businesses, it's usually not what they talk about and are mostly discussed out in District Norway. When I talk to my constituents in my constituency, West Agder, I meet people who are busy with their local hospital, the local school, that there will be a new four-field highway that promised, that the fees will not break local business, and that the state will not impose on local communities windmills they themselves are against. Transport is important for the Progress Party. When we were in government, we almost doubled the national transport plan, and a large-scale road development is under way. For example, motorway development between Kristiansand and Stavanger has begun, a road that will bind business together and save lives. We also have an oil and gas industry in this country that contributes crazy sums to the state budget, an industry that more and more people are openly saying they no longer want. The industry that generates Norwegian well-being is almost described and treated as if they had produced class weapons or nuclear power. It's sad. Fortunately, the Progress Party is one of the few Norwegian parties unisont behind this industry. You talk a lot about how to get out of the coronary crisis, and that's all right, but we're still in the middle of it. A lot of fear of work and home, and we're going to have a business to come back to after the coronary crisis as well. Therefore, it is important that we improve Norwegian competitiveness and do not have special Norwegian taxes and costs that only contribute to a competitive disadvantage for Norwegian companies and workers. It's important to see the weak in society. So we have people in Norway who serve so little that they live below the poverty line. One of the worst coming out groups is the pensioners. We have a system that today takes money from married and cohabiting pensioners – not the state’s money, it’s pensioners’ money. On top of that, the Stortinget has introduced – against the votes of the Progress Party – a system that gives pensioners less than all other employees, the so-called underregulation. It can't go on anymore. Therefore, the Progress Party will fight for increased purchasing power for the pensioners, because the system adopted by the other parties – without the votes of the Progress Party – can no longer continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1458	Creating new jobs in the private sector is important in the years to come. The Progress Party is working to ensure that mineral extraction is Norway’s next growth industry. Minerals are used in the production of new green technology, such as wind turbines, solar panels and electric cars, and are absolutely necessary for the green shift. Various Norwegian minerals will be sought after exports. Mining has the potential to employ many people and become an important industry for many peripheral municipalities. In Finnmark, I see this as a great opportunity. Unfortunately, not everyone wants such opportunities to be welcomed. The merger has done nothing but undermine Nussir's plans for a mine that will create hundreds of jobs. Nussir has done a good job of establishing mining operations in the world's environmental classes and adds to a shift in sustainable mining, where they will have zero-emission operations as the world's first all-electric mine. Nussir has entered into an undertaking with the German Aurubis to sell the first 10 years of copper production. The deal is the largest copper contract in Norway and is worth over 10 billion. kr. The council went to the unusual step of writing a letter to the German contracting party of Nussir. In the letter, Sametinget Aurubis asked to terminate the contract that was concluded, on the grounds that the Sami people were not heard. It's unheard of. Here we have a elected body, funded by taxpayers' money, trying to sabotage private contracts. Much has been done by the authorities to ensure the Sami aspect, including the nutritional basis for reindeer farming. Through its right of consultation, the merger has had all the means to secure the Sami aspect to the decision-making authorities. If a Norwegian State Council had written a letter to someone who would invest in Norwegian business and asked for the contract to be terminated – would that have been acceptable? I'll call it activism. The activism of the merger against private entrepreneurs trying to create jobs and valuable industrial activities in the north must be terminated. That a Norwegian elected body shows so little respect for an almost unanimous community, county council, magnificence, government, and not least the King of State Council, who has confirmed that the necessary balances have been made with regard to the Sami aspect, is regrettable. Nor is the merger ashamed of using taxpayers’ money on the advice of lawyers and public relations agencies in their attempts to sabotage, while complaining that the Sameting gets too little funding. The problem is not too little money, but too much. Therefore, I think it would be appropriate to cut transfers to the Sameting, and that these funds are rather targeted at industrial development in the Sami areas. It will help to create important rural jobs and growth, including for the Sami population. More jobs and high employment in the private sector are the main objective of the Progress Party in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1474	The tourism industry in Norway is an industry that, these days, enjoys the fact that we have a government that lacks both regional and industrial understanding, competence and will. We have a Minister of Industry who meets an industry that is in quite a deep crisis, expressing itself as if the crisis is over, and this is the new normal. The reality is that we have a travel industry that needs financial measures, not simsalabim. For the crisis in the travel industry is real. She must face up to concrete policies. Maybe some people were fooled by the fact that the Norwegians went on vacation in July. It is true, but no industry can live by a month alone, and many actors within the travel world tell that tourists this year came early in July. Monday August 3rd, it was a stop. Then we need policies, and we need a policy and a tool into 2021, and then the Central Party suggests that we already insist that there should be a low VAT rate on travel services out of 2021. One must have means so that counties, municipalities and travel businesses can facilitate travel, so we are ready when tourists come back. We need marketing abroad that makes that when people in the world start traveling again, people want to travel to Norway. Travel life is composed of many actors – from one-man businesses to large actors such as Color Line, Thon, SAS, etc. But there is also another group: those who arrange the tours. They've been tricked by the government. They were told by Stortinget that they would receive 80 pst. Shit. The money gets the Minister of Industry and the bulk of the money back and now says it's worth 40 pst. The reality of this is that in the future, we might leave the big foreign players to plan on selling trips in Norway. That's not what the Center Party wants. In this debate, there has been a lot of talk about a hostile party, especially from representatives from the Right. Then I guess my advice is that they get a mirror before they do this. For there is also a reality of how many hotel owners around the districts have experienced this government: a strong growth in wealth tax. So being nutritious is something you have to do, it's not enough for you to think that you are.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1485	In this last debate of the period, we can sum up the longest Right Rule ever in Norway. The right has never had a greater chance of forming Norway. As Minister of Industry in 2013, I remember very well what the Right message was: a more robust economy, less oil dependence, strengthened mainland economy and less alienation. But no government has ever increased the use of oil money. In 2013, when we went off, we spent 126 billion. kr. In 2020 – before the Korona – it was added to spend 240 billion. kr. Over the course of seven years, the Solberg government has spent almost twice as much oil money as any other government before them – I was about to say since oil was invented. Point two: Norwegian industry has become more oil dependent. In 2013, the trade deficit for mainland Norway was 250 billion. kr. In 2019, it was $400 billion. kr, and a trade surplus with oil has almost disappeared. The third case, the outsidership, has increased and has not gone down. In 2013, we had 310,000 disabled people. Today we have 50,000 more. Under Erna Solberg, the number of young workers has doubled from 10,000 to 20,000. The main reason is mental problems. There's one thing Erna Solberg has made as his flagship. There's reason to fear that the numbers are still high. Still 14 000 young people leave school without having completed. 6000 applicants are untrained. Only in the health field, there is almost 2000 missing space. So over a generation, we're going to double the number of older people, but we're going to tell thousands of young people that there's no need for them in the health sector. It's Solberg's version of making us more robust for the future. Oil money use has increased, trade deficits have increased, exclusion has increased, young people have doubled, and thousands of young people are dropping out of school. A new policy is needed. Many thousands of unemployed people tell how important it is to work for everyone. Close schools have reminded us how important the primary school is, and no one talks anymore about the fact that foreign big groups are going to run hospitals where our elderly people need security. No one envys other countries' privatized health services. Criticism against noise welfare schemes has been muted. We need a new direction, a more robust economy, less alienation, less oil dependence and stronger economies in mainland Norway. To use an old slogan, we need new ideas and better solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1502	The Prime Minister, who leads the government, has a great responsibility for what is happening in the country. The Prime Minister has a primary responsibility to practice the two-part objective on which the robberies settlement is based. Of course, the basis for a two-fold objective must be the balancing of objectives. It's not like that today. Robbery is the main target. When both the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Agriculture think this is quite right, that means that we have a government that does not focus on grazing as important as the predatory game. In Northern Ireland, for example, it was announced before the reincalving of the year that it was necessary to extract predatory game. The rain is at its most vulnerable in this time, when the newborn calves are going to take their first waving steps. What happened in ours? In Børgefjell, at least 90 pure evidence had to be provided as a predatory game killed before a single predatory game was taken out of the area, and in the land of reindeer calving it shall not be predatory. The use of grazing is important. A landslide is particularly important in a country with only 3pst. cultivated land. In Northern Ireland it's even smaller, it's 1.4 pst. cultivated land. Pasturage is both environmentally friendly and forward-looking. Meat produced on grass is both healthy and good. I think that's reason to thank those who produce the food. We need greater self-sufficiency of agricultural products, corrected for imported power supplies. The notifications from the reindeer owners are now so serious that I believe the Prime Minister must take a much greater responsibility. The government can't let Minister of the Environment Rotevatn break the reindeer in Northernland. For example, Mats Pavall in Duocta says he can't go on clean. Ending Mats, hope for the reindeer in Duokta disappears. So what's the predatory game going to eat? Of course, there are several challenges in the reindeer areas. But Mats Pavall is clear that it is the predatory game that is the greatest strain they have. Eagles, yerves and yerpes kill both the pure and the hope of a future in an important and traditional nourishment. Now it's not just a single-trainer that alerts. Both the County of Nordland and the NSR report the death of the reindeer in the county. I'm asking the government with the Prime Minister to take responsibility: reduce the robberies pressure now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1523	This is not a flaming speech, but a brief explanation of vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Eighty-eight. The Ministry of Knowledge and the Minister of Higher Education and Research Henrik Asheim is working on a major report on governance of state universities and higher education institutions, and of course it will also deal with financing of the sector. In this context, it would be quite natural that we also look at a review of the funding categories in higher education. The right will therefore support this proposal when it comes to voting later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1528	In my first post today, I talked about the first of two existential problems that humanity is now facing, and that should perhaps be reflected more in the debate here. That was the climate and climate change. Now I'll say a little about the loss of species diversity that the Nature Panel points to. The Natural Panel is under the United Nations' wings in a way; at least it has the Secretariat and the Secretariat function. I've been through several thousand scientific publications. They warn us, point our finger at us, and say that if we don't get together, this goes wrong, and we get a boomerang against us. When one million species are threatened with extinction — e.g. have halved animal populations during my adult period, over 40 years – there is a serious danger on the move. There are five reasons why this happens, and all of them are man-made. We have to take this seriously. I am pleased that the Prime Minister and Government, among more than 60 Heads of State, have now signed a declaration on a number of environmental measures by 2030, prior to the UN Conference on Species Diversity. That's very good. The Prime Minister also said in his speech today that knowledge is the key to good governance, and at least we agree on that. Then I have to ask the question: why are so many decisions taken in response to the recommendations of professional biologists and academics? It's enough to refer to a string as'skanten'. Think also of how forest is mowed today despite professional knowledge of what is there. Think how sad a card we've come to chart what we have of values. I'm thinking about the ecological base map. The Minister of the Environment may be fighting for a greater place and for more money, but it seems to be losing time after time when the budget is to be set up. Solberg's government has gone against a lot of what biologists recommend. At each election campaign, both Siv Jensen and Erna Solberg have gone out and said that it will be easier to build and build down, and they have actually succeeded. There's probably not one area where they've succeeded more, and where they've shown more action, than just this. It is – what to say – a conscious attitude, and it is very important that we now move towards spatial neutrality, and I hope that is reflected in the spatial plans of many municipalities as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1541	A danger sign when a person has a seat of power for too long may be that a person no longer sees the real problems that are actually there. The readiness is better, says the Right-Representative after the Right-Representation here in the pulpit, both yesterday and today. Yes, the national preparedness I think everyone should admit is better. It has been a significant investment in a national emergency centre, we have put in place police helicopters, it has been well delivered on much of the national preparedness. The criticism is not in it, it is the local preparedness that is weak. There's close-up police all over the country that many places are weak. Interestingly, many Right-Representatives today have used one example, from Nord-Troms, where some of my reforms are going very well. It's very positive. I even think I can come up with more examples where people think the reform has worked well. The problem is that they're only in a few. It's not okay for one to wait several hours for the police to come. I'm from the Valley of West Telemark, and I know that there aren't so many, but even on the Nesodden, where there are 20,000 people, the police can't keep their response time. Guro Angell Gimse from the Right says that the Right wants the fire and rescue service to have a greater responsibility and do more things, but that's not true. The Labour Party has twice proposed a separate report on the fire and rescue services, because I think it is worrying that the men and women who are now temporary police around the country are without anyone looking at tasks, funding and future portfolios. Here we have suggested a lot of measures, but they are going down again and again. Heidi Nordby Lunde says that Masud Gharakhani claims that the police are laughing at work, but it is not Gharakhani who claims that it is, it is the police themselves who stand up in the media, who despair of not being heard. That's the legacy we now have after all these years of Right, and also the Progress Party, in the government – policemen all over the country who feel that they won't be heard. I think it is quite unlikely that one will not take this more seriously than what we have seen in the debate both yesterday and today. What the debate shows is a clear distinction between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of the policy. The Labour Party goes clearly to choices and to the fight against increasing differences, while the representatives from the Right will not recognize that the differences are as large as they are. The right has often claimed that they are a knowledge-based party. When they receive a report confirming that their tax policy does not lead to what they claim, they shall no longer listen to it. It's just noticing that's interesting. I mean the debate yesterday and today clearly show that we need a new course for the country, for security and justice and to bring down the differences in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1554	The Blue-Blue Right Government with the Advance Party as a supporting party says they want living communities and growth throughout the country. The industry in many districts is doing well – as is the case in Trøndelag. People live where the values are and where the values are created. They want to keep doing that. Then it's just so bad that the right-wing government with the supporting party, the Progress Party, facilitates the opposite. Local communities are regularly witnessing the closure of public, state-owned offices that are important for creating a diverse local working life. There is no coordination at government level to ensure that when restructuring state jobs, there is something left in the districts as well. The government doesn't lift a finger. There is no desire to take responsibility when several state institutions, for example: it considers it appropriate to break the principle of spreading workplaces and to do so at the same time. Then no one takes responsibility for seeing what is the overall consequence. Mæland, as a former municipal minister, would not take responsibility for this coordination role that she was assigned. At her direct invitation, she felt that the location of state jobs would be the responsibility of each department. That's not how a whole builds. So you don't see the whole consequence. Perhaps the new municipal minister from the Right is of a different opinion? What we do today matters to everything that happens in the future. Therefore, it is important to be foresight and to think every day about what the policies we are implementing actually lead to for the community. Many communities now experience the disappearance of workplaces after work. The tax collector disappears, Nav disappears, the police disappears, etc. The last time I checked the statistics for my own municipality, we had one State job again. It may be the priest. That's what's left of state jobs, and that's how it is in many municipalities. Is it the next one to be centralized? No, now we have to put in place another government that will ensure that we keep state jobs in District Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1567	Let me start by saying that I know I was out of parliamentary practice earlier today – with that heart sometimes filled with. We're strict on government executives and we're still going to be, because it's important that we're not wage-leading. On the other hand, it is also important to stay within reality when, for example. in this room, describe how Norwegian society is and what the challenges are. I haven't heard that all the way through this. Let me just take some facts related to the post that Trond Giske held that Norway had become more oil dependent. Norway has become less oil dependent in recent years. Oil demand in the share of GDP — which is the key criterion for this — has gone from 13.5 pst. in 2013 to 8.8 pst. in 2019. That's one important example. Before the corona, luckily the employment rate for them between 20 and 66 years had risen to 78,1 pst. I think we still have to work to get that share up. When assessing the balance of trade, it's important to know what you're really going through and talking about. In fact, the difference in the trade balance for Norway — if imports into the oil business are removed, which must be the real, comparable size — is only the return of the State pension fund, which is the difference in our trade balance. I believe that we need to work more to increase our trade. We're working on an export strategy. It was presented today. We're going to work even more to build up more in mainland Norway, but the sum is that Norway is less oil dependent today than it was in 2013. So there are some things I just want to comment on briefly. In 2005, we decided to base the average price and salary increase on the pension regulation. It was the red-green government that operated this to 0.75. Then it was decided in Stortinget, so it was an operationalization. But what was important about that discussion was that at the time the government said it was important to do it that way because we couldn't have a variable number every year for the stability of the entire pension system. And then we'll think about it when we have a pension commission that goes through and see if we can operate these things a better way, but that's what's behind it. So to the question that was raised, among other things. by Martin Kolberg, on the government's ratio to the pension from the first crown. The government, as the Storting has been informed, has reduced a party-consolidated selection. The government sits there with the social partners to see possible ways of implementing the pension from the first crown – whether we are going to, and in what way we are going to do it. It's real work in tripartite cooperation. We have said that when we get the setting – which was to come in ours, was postponed because of the corona and comes in during the fall – we will take a proper position, if there is a real wish in tripartite cooperation that we should have a pension from the first crown. It is important for me to stress that we are engaged in a real tripartite cooperation, not a working party-two-party cooperation where LO largely determines what the Workers' Party should do, and employers are not listened to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1580	The debate over these two days has revealed the differences in the view of instruments to create the Norway of the future, Norway, which is to normalise the daily lives of our inhabitants after the corona epidemic. In order to succeed in getting people back to work, ensuring more legs to stand on, creating a greener future, getting more people to complete high school and including more in the labour market, targeted measures and adjustment of the economy are required in our new situation – measures that can contribute to security but also create economic growth for an uncertain period of time. Child poverty in today’s Norway is largely about children who experience being excluded from social cohesion because of the family’s financial situation. Therefore, priority is given to measures such as providing a significant increase in child benefit for children from 0 to 6 years of age, the leisure card for all children from 6 to 18 years of age, free core time in kindergarten and the SFO for low-income families, and more than a doubling of the one-off grant for birthing women. Looking beyond the borders of the country – and we should do that, as one of the world's richest countries – it meets us with a world where we see more people fleeing, more people who have been in a situation of hunger and uncertainty associated with totally existential issues, as if they were able to provide enough nutritious, healthy food. This is a challenge this government is taking in the highest seriousness and is doing something about it. I am concerned when a party that the Progress Party is now calling for in this debate to reduce the aid budget and to argue for a reduction in the number of quota refugees to Norway. Even if we do not vote in favour of proposal No. 67 today, from the SV and the Green Party on asylum seekers from Greece, however, we fully agree to have as rapid a relocation as possible by asylum seekers Norway has decided to accept it from Greece. The enormous suffering makes an impression. Christian People's Party and Government will help in different ways. The pointum is not set for Norwegian help to these people in Greece. We are not finished and consider the situation continuously in terms of how we can help, including the number of vulnerable children and families Norway should relocate. The debate over these two days has revealed clear differences in the outlook on what solutions Norway needs in the future. One thing is that government and opposition are disagreeable, but certainly there is also a large speck on the red-green side. Take, for example, the issue of the position on the EEA, where the Centre Party will nullify the agreement, while the Workers Party wants to maintain it, or within nature protection, where the Centre Party and the Green Party stand on each of their globes in view of what is necessary to save the climate. One has reason to ask questions about how it is possible to create credibility for a red-green government option with such a big stick in such important matters. With regard to the proposals, the Christian People's Party refers to the explanation of vote that the parliamentary leader in the Right will give on behalf of the three government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1597	I would also like to thank you for the debate, which, through these two days, shows some clear dividing lines. I'm not going to take everyone, I'm going to deal with one. We're going to get out of a corona pandemic and an economic crisis, and we're going to do a big green shift. There I think there are some clear distinctions, especially with regard to how we are going to solve the biggest problem we are facing, which is to address the climate disaster we have, and reduce emissions by 50-55 pst. towards 2030. We have a government that has conducted a systematic policy over several years. We've got emission shots. Over the last four years, they have fallen; six out of the last seven years, emissions have fallen. We have reinforced our goal towards the UN, as one of the first countries in the world, by 50-55 pst., we have entered into a binding agreement with the EU covering the entire emissions sector, including the non-quota emissions, and we have a system of green shipping, within transport, with an electricity car share that is unique in the world. You can look at areas by area. We're going to present what's been wanted for a long time: a climate plan that will show how we're going to achieve the targets by 2030. It's a systematic to get this to, a systematic that wasn't there any years ago. On the opposition side, you have lots of people who are very concerned about the climate, and so do I from the Left, but where is the systematics? You have the Workers' Party, which is talking about having a fair climate policy. Of course we should, but the least fair thing is not to have an effective climate policy. I don't know if talking about justice in the next round involves proposals like, among other things. So the electric car conversion and the electrification we see in Norway is going to go slower than it looks today, and that we don't reach the goal of just a zero-emission vehicle in 2025, which we have to reach to bring down the emissions by 50 pst. Then you have almost the largest opposition party, the Central Party, which is largely opposed to all proposals on climate – tax increases and others – that we have made in recent years, and which we do not know really want us to maintain cooperation with the European Union. This is a central part of the EEA Agreement and a central part of cooperation to achieve the objectives of our climate policy. The question then becomes the Central Party: Are we going to do this in cooperation with the EU, or are we actually going out of climate cooperation as well? How could the rest of the opposition say how we're going to achieve the 2030 climate targets? There is no doubt that the system and will lie on the civil side.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1613	To the last post, it's tempting to say that if there's systematics on the civil side, it's going too slowly and is systematically too relaxed. That is what happens in climate policy on the civil side. Why can I say that? Well, that's because it's going to present a plan, in the last year of an eight-year period, it's not very impressive. The problem is that after so many years of bourgeois rule, Norway does not have a plan. The government may reach the point of making a plan before it, hopefully, goes off. What's the systematics in? Well, some of the things that are now most important to drive forward the technological change we need to bring down the emissions, such as that the government has turned its back on the carbon capture project on Klemetsrud recently, or that when I visit companies working with climate solutions around the country, it is systematically reported that a much more active industrial policy is needed than the one currently being pursued, in order to drive the solutions forward. For those who are trying to develop zero-emission engines, those who want to build zero-emission fishing boats, this is the case in the development of a Norwegian battery industry, the desire to use hydrogen on our ferries in the north, for example. on Westfjord. The challenge, therefore, is that this government lacks the active industrial policy needed to meet the climate crisis in both effective and fair ways. One of the main impressions of this debate is that the government, confronted with the two new reports that show how the inequality of power and wealth is greater in Norway than most have believed, and that the government's tax policy is rigged for the economic elite – the richest – is unexplained and unanswered. When I and several others today challenged the Prime Minister for the new report, which shows that the government has been wrong about the property tax, the answer is to try to talk so unclearly about this that you use up your speaking time before you have to answer. I also think that this has been the consistent response of civil representatives in the debate. This is because the right side lacks a good response to the report that came yesterday, which is crushing for a foundation in the bourgeois government project. In a situation where we know that the richest people in the country pay a much less part of their income in taxes than the usual workers do, it is intolerable. We have to straighten out the tax system so that it puts work first and ordinary people first.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1622	This has evolved to a large extent into a debate on inequality, and on the fact that very many have felt overlooked and sometimes run over in recent years. Boundary rebellions and coastal uprisings are expressions of this. The Prime Minister started his speech today with her wanting to look forward. The Prime Minister may not want to look back over the seven years she has been running – on all these centralisation reforms. I believe that the Prime Minister has a small wish that this centralisation mechanism should be forgotten towards the election day of 2021. It's not going to happen. It's usually important to look forward. The center part wants to look forward. The centre party believes that a new course is needed. The next decade must be the decade when we prevent a Norway with increased social and geographical divisions. There are many countries that are struggling with increasing inequality, with many that are falling outside. It's sociable. Differences are created when preparedness, welfare and services are not close to people, when groups in the population do not feel heard and seen, when wealth values are collected on fewer hands and in fewer places in a country. And then there's inequality. Nutrient is not just leaning backwards and saying that it's a free slip. We must have a focused effort – there has been an important debate here today. The Prime Minister mentioned Statoil/Equinor. One can look at the hydropower companies in Norway and imagine what it would have meant if they had been owned by German or Chinese interests. They have created values and added values both locally and nationally. It could have been different if they had been purchased by the rest of the world. That's the challenge we're facing now, in terms of other of our natural resources. The Central Party believes that the Right lacks new ideas and tools in regional and industrial policy. They hope and believe that we will get a more entrepreneurial development, but we have to bet. We need to bet on new tools and far more focused than what we've done. The driving force behind district policy is not mild gifts to the outskirts. The strength of rural policy is to keep the country together through equal opportunities and services, through the whole country being seen, and through Norway being linked. This debate shows that the Right and the rest of the Government have not understood it. Therefore, a new course is needed, and therefore a new board is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1637	Let me first address myself to the representative Lise Christoffersen, who had some polite formulations relating to the succession of lines between the Prime Minister and me associated with the pensioners. I was the finance minister of a government that founded the pension reform and the pension settlement, a settlement that the Workers' Party must be said to be the main architect behind it. So the Workers' Party is better able to explain what they're doing on pension issues. The Progress Party has been clear all along what is our primary position on underregulation of pensions, and we used the occasion when we were in government, to give pensioners a handshake through many other instruments: by doing something about shortening the pension to married and cohabiting pensioners, by strengthening the minimum pensions on repeated occasions, and also by providing pensioners with a hand billing through the tax system. We used all of the possibilities that were on the outside of the pension agreement. That the Progress Party now, out of government, continues to fight for its primary policy of doing something about underregulation, which we also have a proposal on today, should not surprise anyone. What is more surprising, on the other hand, is the wing that the Workers' Party has on this issue as well. I am delighted to see the representative Jonas Gahr Støres following up on what he himself said earlier today that it was very immature to wear ideological skyscrapers. I noticed that. Then I expect that the representative Gahr Støre will be consistent in his approach to the questions in all matters in the future, and that it is not just about the one question he chose to be concerned about when he talked about ideological skyscrapers. Because we see a Workers' Party that wears ideological skyscrapers in a terrible number of questions, which creates significant challenges – for parents who have children in kindergarten, for students who want to think differently in school, for older people who want freedom of choice in hospitals or for who should come and care for them at home. The list is long, and here the Workers' Party could have taken advantage of its ideological skyscrapers. Otherwise, I have to say that this has been a very predictable debate on the throne, without much news. The dividing lines in Norwegian policy are established as they have always been. Finally, I would like to give an explanation of vote by the Group of the European People's Party. We are going to support the proposals No. Three, eight, twelve, thirteen and fifteen from the Center Party. We are going to support the proposals No. 20, 22, 26, 28, 30, 31 and 34, from the Workers' Party. We are going to support the proposals No. 68 and 87, from SV. Other proposals we either disagree with or will approach in other ways, for example. through the budgetary procedure in that autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1650	It is possible that I have to make two contributions if I cannot spend a little extra time on explanations of vote, because there are some proposals that the government parties will vote for. Before that, I want to thank you for the debate, which goes after the used dividing lines. After all, we have been through – and are in the middle of – a very special situation, with coronary apathy and enormous challenges for Norwegian business and for Norwegian jobs. I would like to say that on the part of the government parties, we are naturally prepared to have a good cooperation with Stortinget. We want to negotiate a budget with the Progress Party in the first place – that is, that is the objective – but there has been a good atmosphere in the Stortinget to be able to gather on broad national solutions when necessary. We want to continue that, so it will also reflect a little in our explanation of vote, because we support some proposals from both the Centre Party, the Labour Party and, of course, the Progress Party. Marit Arnstad is promoting inequality and talking about district policy. It's natural that the Center Party does that. I just want to remind you that this government has nothing to be ashamed of. For seven years we have had a record promise of what really binds the country together, that is, transportation. We have a real increase of 85 pst., which, not least, the Progress Party has contributed to, by expanding roads, by expanding railways, by expanding ports and fairways, which provide opportunities for Norway as a whole. In my post yesterday, I mentioned in a note that the unemployment rate is unfortunately highest in Oslo and lowest in Northernland. There is no anti-regional unemployment — to put it that way. Even during the oil crisis, we saw that unemployment was lowest in the least oil-dependent countries – the Inland, the North and the North – and so it still has. So we contribute to creating jobs, we contribute to facilitating a development that is good for all of Norway, and this government will continue to do so. Then to the explanation of vote: we are voting in favour of proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. I have to give a little explanation for each proposal, if I get a little extra speaking time. Otherwise I have to go down and up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1663	The representative has 3 minutes of speaking time, but he would like to redraw.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1668	It used to be so sometimes that you could spend a little time on explanations of vote, but I respect the President. Then I went down and came back up again afterwards. We are therefore voting in favour of proposal No. Three, which we have voted for before. We are voting in favour of proposal No. 12, which are proposals for monitoring the management of visitor restrictions by public authorities. This is also in the work of the Corona Commission. But we are voting in favour of that proposal. We are voting in favour of proposal No. 13, where you look at new models to develop effective antibiotics. Then my speaking time was used up. These were the proposals from the Central Party we wanted to vote for. Then I can come up and take the rest afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1677	I think this has been a clarification debate. I think it gives a good play to the year that goes against the election. The Prime Minister was busy looking forward. At the same time, she warned against the mistakes of the past. But it inspired me to say that Norway became Norway because we did not make some of the mistakes of other countries in the past. In Norway, there was a common perception, at least in terms of tone, that we should have a policy of work for everyone and put strong instruments into it. We should have a welfare state policy that gave people well-being regardless of where they lived, and what salary they had, a policy to ensure widespread settlement for many reasons, an industrial and industrial development policy and a political will to achieve these goals, and that a common welfare state was actually a good thing for individuals – it was fair and also good for business. At the bottom of that, what tied all of this together, was that we were giving priority to having small differences. Evidence has now come to illustrate what contributes to small differences and whether Norway is away from small differences. We have heard a government that has not really had one proposal that can show that they are reducing the differences – they call them small, but they are increasing. And we have a government that is really concerned with the alternative facts. When there is evidence from the Statistical Central Bureau that those with the highest income are taxing less and earning more, the alternative fact is that it does not really affect the image. There is evidence that our wealth inequality is in line with that in the United Kingdom. You wouldn't think a year ago that there was something that we just pulled our shoulders off and said, "There's still little difference." And we've got evidence of the property tax that the Justice National Meeting will liquidate. So they're going to spend 10 to 15 billion. kr there, that's what we have to deal with right now, that's where we have the greatest opportunity to correct bias in Norway. In this regard, our well-known economic researchers write that the analysis ‘does not have any effect on the investment of the enterprise in physical resources’, nor therefore on employment. So this is a government that not only rejects the facts, but it also rejects people's views. And to Siv Jensen's point about ideological skyscrapers: I have often described it with an international historian who said that social democracy is a practice in the search for a theory. It's practice that works. That's what works, that's the point. And a welfare state that ensures and guarantees the mission of children and young people, and that secures the elderly, is effective. When we see that large private groups make a huge profit out of running it as if it were a market, there is a confirmation of this government's policy, where the government in 2013 said that there is no difference between welfare services and other services. That's where we end up. We say no to that. And I want to come back to a few more items in one last post, but here we'll figure out differences. I think that is informative for the voters, and we have been given an emphasis on what the election campaign is going to be about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1690	I agree that the debate has been clarifying. It's shown that both inequality, the growing inequality of power and wealth, and the climate and environmental crisis are going to be central to the election campaign we're facing. We've been talking a lot today about what's happening at the top of the Norwegian community, and how the richest ones are moving away. But one of the things that voting will now show is whether the Storting is ready to investigate the consequences for the many who are hit by various unsocial cuts that have hit people who have little, over the years with bourgeois government. That's true, it's true, it's true, it's true, it's true, it's true, it's true, it's true, it's true, it's true, it's true, it's true, it's true, it's true, it's true, it's true, it's true, it's true, This applies not least to the pensioners, who have been up in the debate several times, who have experienced settlements after settlement with falling purchasing power, which, of course, hit older people with low pensions the hardest. We have a number of proposals today that are simply about asking the government to identify the consequences for those affected by the unsocial cuts. I hope that those who have supported these cuts, the government parties and the Progress Party, too, could be with us that it might be interesting to find out how it has gone with those who have been on the other side. Otherwise, I should also make an explanation of vote. SV will vote in favour of the proposal No. 1-14, from the Centre Party, proposal No. 18 and proposals Nos. 20-34, from the Labour Party, proposals Nos. 35, 38, 70, 88 and 89, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 39 to 49, 52 to 57, 59 and 60, from Red, in addition to proposals Nos. 65 and 66, from the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1699	I will make an explanation of vote, but I will also reply to a few things that have been said in this final round. To the representative of Elvesuen first: Yes, it is true, the centre party is against the EU. We were also sceptical about the EU and climate cooperation, in the sense that the rules of procedure for forests were not clear. But we're for carbon capture and storage. So if Elvesuen is to highlight the citizens' initiative in this area, there is a full impact between citizens in climate policy right now on the capture and storage of CO 2, which will be one of the important things. Then I realize that the Right, and in particular the District Representatives from the Right, have a need to cling a little to district policy. But it's a reality that the Right has cut a lot in district policy. They cling to the road, but the big money has also gone to the central roads. The Prime Minister was not even able to tell us what had become better in the coercive counties of Troms and Finnmark and Viken earlier today. I'm also going to take a little explanation of vote – it's actually not going to be that small. First, a slight change in our proposal No. 4: We want to delete the words 'by Air Transport RW' in that proposal. In addition to our own proposals and proposal No. 62, which we have with SV, I recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal, with the exception of the proposals No. 19, 22, and 23. We also support proposal No. 35, from the Progress Party, on underregulation of pensions. But there I would like to point out that the word 'total' is essential for our support, and the word 'total' could probably mean that the effect of underregulation can be eliminated in various ways. The different batches can have different models for that. We do not support the proposals. 36 and 37, but we support proposal No. 38, from the Progress Party. With regard to the Red's proposals, we support some of them, but we do not support the proposals No. 41, 43, 46, 50, 51, 53, 55-58 and 60. We do not support proposal No. 61 and proposals Nos. 63 to 67, from SV. Then we support proposal No. 68, from SV, but not from proposal No. 69. We support proposal No. 70, from the Progress Party. As regards SV's proposals put forward by the Lighthouse, the proposals No. 71-87, we all support except for proposals Nos. 74 and 87. We do not support the latter because we also choose to vote in favour of proposal No. Thirty-five. Then we support the proposals No. 88 and 89, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1727	Then I'll continue where I left off. We will support proposal No. 20, from the Labour Party – a proposal to increase the minimum pension. There I want to say that the minimum pensions are not underregulated, they have a different regime than the rest of the pension system. The government has increased the minimum pensions three times. This proposal states that the government is to ‘present proposals to increase the minimum pensions’. This must be done in budgetary terms, so that we do not decide when and how much, but we can support the principle. Then we support proposal No. 22, also from the Workers' Party. It has already been taken care of, but we can nevertheless vote for it, and the government will follow the situation closely beyond the year also to ensure this. Proposal No. 26 we support, it is a proposal asking for ‘a national plan for the rehabilitation of people who have undergone COVID-19’, etc. There's already been a mission from the Health Directorate to the health companies, so it's kind of taken care of, but we can support the proposal. Then it's proposal No. 28. There is also a follow-up to covid-19 in relation to different vulnerable groups. There are also guidelines – it is underway, taken care of by the Health Directorate. Nevertheless, we support the proposal. Then it's proposal No. 31. This involves using more publicity, making assessments of more publicity when asking for transparency in overall patient numbers. We are in favour of that, because more public opinion must always be assessed. It's the health companies that have a responsibility to make these assessments, but we support the principle here. Then it's proposal No. 34, which we can also support. It's on child protection. There the government has announced that they will come with a NOU, but we can also support this proposal for an expert committee. So to the last four proposals we want to support. That's the number. 37, from the party of progress, I don't need to comment on that. Then we support proposal No. 70, it has also been said by others that they support, and the proposals No. 88 and 89. Then I have been through the list, and then I have not said which proposals we do not support. It gets very complicated if I were to start with it, but at least it's the others, so this should be a complete list of the government parties. If I have done something wrong now, I must be corrected by Mr. Gruvan or Mr. Elvesuen!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1746	In the range of alternative facts, the Prime Minister drew attention to the Workers' Party's view of tripartite cooperation – to whom you spoke, and to whom you did not talk. It was with respect to report only hesitate. We will listen to the social partners. We don't listen to one party over another. We pride ourselves on increasing the level of organisation, on the organisation of workers and on the organisation of companies. From a prime minister who writes in his government statement that she recognises the unorganized working life, it is not surprising, but the more wrong this is. My final point is this with the Prime Minister's last words to me in the change of lines, that she seems to hear an 'activistic' line when it comes to business policy. It is clear that ‘activist’ is a bad word for the Prime Minister. My point, once again, is: what is pragmatically correct? What are the results? What's bothered me when you travel around the Norwegian business world is that small and medium-sized enterprises, most of which we have, but also the largest, are calling for a more active state. Some of the largest companies say that it is strange that the state does not require more ring-effects when you get a job. In the farming sector, we have fisheries concessions that are development concessions where demands can be made for the use of new technologies, releasing new forces, trying out new things. But in a wide range of other areas, related to the forest, the sea, the oil, the gas, the ringing effects are few. It hits our northern part of the country more than in the south, because then there were more ringing effects at the beginning of that part of the development. So here this is a view of how the state – in the major challenges of the 2020s, how many of the markets we are going to develop jobs and technologies are so-called immature – can be supportive. Then we can say that the state is active, I think it's good – we don't have to call it 'activistic'. But at least this is a result of us listening to those who wear the shoes, it's the social partners, the workers, the businesses, and we're listening to the business world. It's from the position that there are different views on the red-green side. Yes, there are different parties. But I am sure that when we go against the election in 2021, we agree with the view of ensuring people's security for work and security at work, cleaning up where necessary in working life, ensuring a stronger welfare state that contributes to people's good offer regardless of where they live, and what they have to earn, and a fair climate policy that cuts emissions and creates jobs – that direction, which is a different direction. At the bottom of it is having small differences – not freezing that term, but seeing that there is something we have to work with all the time. Those who look at this far outside of politics see that small differences are important for the success of migration. Large differences are poisoned for conversion. That's why there's going to be interesting things, and I think like we said, we see the outlines of what the election campaign is going to be about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1758	A large state ownership, which we all have in Norway, requires an extremely accurate way of thinking about how it works in a market, in relation to other actors, in relation to funding. That's why we've been concerned that there should be a very clear understanding of the role you have when you have a state ownership. But then we're too state-owned in a number of things, in partnership with private people. Because it's now that someone might make better assessments if they're going to lose their own money, than if they're going to lose someone else's money. It's a good lesson to take with you, and that's why it's also important to do it. But the reason I took the floor is that it's often nice with summaries at the end of such debates. And in this debate, there have been many allegations about what these reports have come in the last few weeks, saying and not saying, and there have been consequences from what there is no basis for. For example, the Labour Party's fiscal adviser said that the report published yesterday showed that the tax reliefs granted were tax reliefs that went only for private consumption. We don't have any reason to know anything about that. Very much of the money is, of course, reinvested in other businesses. It's those who are partners with us when we build new technology environments, and those who invest in others, but it just spreads out as a claim without any team at all. The second is the statement that Gahr Støre also made, that we had now drawn close to British differences. It is not possible to use one concept of income in a survey that has now been carried out, and compare it with the international statistics, which show something quite different. Because then one has not compared, if one has used the same income concept in the United Kingdom as that in the SSB report. What we know about international comparisons is that Norway is the second largest country in Europe. It's just Iceland that has less inequality than Norway in Europe. We're actually, especially when we put on top all the welfare arrangements we have, very good at building good equality in our society. But the most important thing is perhaps to remember that the reason why many analyses of inequality suggest that there is a lack of efficiency is that people feel that they are stagnating and others are evolving, and that people are standing outside. That's why it's not the policy of keeping down the activity of the economy that's most important, but it's actually what the left-hand side is talking little about, that's how we get people to work, how we make sure that we take away the inheritance we have in social differences. A cross of thought related to it: In the SSB report, they refer to a time under the red-green government where the inequality went down, in 2009–2010. Then the rich became poorer, yes, but then unemployment grew considerably higher in Norway. And is there any of you here who felt that we were then a better society, even though we liked the statistics?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1771	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox On the basis of the comprehensive explanations of vote, we will soon be going to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1785	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1797	A total of 89 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-16, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 17–34, by Jonas Gahr Støre on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 35, from Erlend Wiborg on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 36 and 37, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Party of Advancement proposal No 38, from Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 39 to 60, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 61, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 62, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 63 and 64, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 65 and 66, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 67, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens the proposals No 68 and 69, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 70, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 71-87, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 88 and 89, from Roy Steffensen on behalf of the Progress Party In the course of the debate, proposal No. 4 changed and now sounds like: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the contract for the continuation of the covid-19 helicopter in Tromsø’. The President notes that there are a large number of votes and asks the representatives to be attentive since we are only 87 representatives present, only two more than what we need for a valid decision. There is a vote on proposal No. 58, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for a ban on the chartering of private aircraft and the use of private jet aircraft for transport which are not justified on grounds of life, health and safety.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1867	There is a vote on proposal No. 51, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking for tax deductions on the rental costs of tenants for own dwellings.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1884	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 50 and 53, from Red. Proposal No. 50 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the introduction of a redistributive cap on the tax credit on debt interest on mortgages.» Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The government is asking Norway to become a leading country that stands up to an international tax race on a bottom-up basis and gradually increase the tax on company profits.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1908	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 46, 55, 56 and 60, from Red. Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the government to ensure that tax-funded welfare services are operated by public and non-profit actors and to provide a plan for gradual escalation of public and non-profit ownership and operation.’ Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the introduction of a fair and progressive tax on luxury heritage, in order to prevent the formation of dynasties, where power and enormous wealth are tax-free.’ Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to remove the possibility of collecting tax-free dividends by removing the shielding deduction.’ Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Equinor permanently shuts down the buy-back programme for its own shares’.» The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1943	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 41 and 43, from Red. Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive report on charging policy, which assesses more differentiated and progressive charges by economy and by geography.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that municipalities keep the total amount of child benefit outside the income base in the calculation of social assistance and to provide compensation for this.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e1967	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 47 to 49 and 54, from Red. Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an annual growth report on developments in the level of organisation and measures to strengthen the organised labour market.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that Norwegian collective bargaining agreements and Norwegian labour law take precedence over EU rules.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a power investigation with particular emphasis on structures and the balance of power in the world of work’.» Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a more progressive property tax with an increased rate of large assets and higher base deductions.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2001	There is a vote on proposal No. 57, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The cancellation requests the government to explore alternatives to the exemption method that ensure that ownership income is taxed on an ongoing basis.’ The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have expressed support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2018	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 39, 40, 42, 44, 45, 52 and 59, from Red. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present concrete measures aimed at reducing the inequality, as a consequence of Norway’s excessive inequality.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an overall review of the distribution effects of changes in the tax system since 2013.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to provide, on an annual basis, comprehensive surveys of the development of inequality and the real distribution of wealth and income in Norway.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government is asked to maintain the supplementary pension scheme for the survivors [["Indeedment"]] Proposal No. 45 sounds: «The government asks the government to reverse the cut in spectacle support for children and young people under 18 years of age.» Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present changes to the tax system that uphold the Storting’s historical intention of a progressive tax system in which the average tax will increase with increasing income, including for the richest 1 pst, in order to ensure that all taxpayers pay taxes according to their ability.’ Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to examine the effect of the use of tenders on working conditions and the formation of wages, both for employees and managers, especially in public transport and rail’. The Workers’ Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2066	There is a vote on proposal No. 65, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the tax regime for the petroleum industry to prevent unprofitable investments in the economy and to propose, as soon as possible, amendments to this effect.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2083	There is a vote on proposal No. 66, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In 2021, the government is asked to provide a big message with an obliging action plan for the restoration of 15% of degraded ecosystems in Norway.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2101	There is a vote on proposal No. 67, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the relocation of asylum seekers from Greece to Norway as quickly as possible and for the number to increase significantly more than 50 in 2020.’ The Labour Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2118	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 61, 63, 64 and 69, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The government is asking health firms to give a clearer instruction to increase the proportion of full-time jobs in health establishments and, in extending it, not to appeal to the nurses in Eastfold who wish to have a full-time job but instead to accept the decision of the dispute settlement body.’ Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to follow the United Nations High Commissioner for the Request of Refugees on how many quota refugees Norway should receive.’ Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow the recommendations of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in the formulation of Norwegian asylum and refugee policy.’ Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The Government is asking not to award any new oil or gas fields to oil companies either through 25 concession rounds, or by any other means, until the Supreme Court has dealt with the climate action of Nature and Youth, Greenpeace, the Nature Protection Association and Grandparents’ Climate Action.’; The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2152	There is a vote on proposal No. 87, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to remove under-regulation of pensions’. The Progress Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2169	There is a vote on proposal No. 68, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for measures to ensure that irreversible interventions are not taken in the wild where wind power plant development is now under way, or will be initiated, before the review of the Stortinget asked for 19 June, by the wind power concessions granted.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2186	There is a vote on proposal No. 74, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to examine the consequences for those affected by the cuts in disability caused by the government’s unfair conversion model from old to new disability schemes. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with proposals for the revised national budget in 2021.» The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2204	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 71–73 and 75–86, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the consequences for those affected by the cuts in the child’s spectacle support system. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with proposals for the revised national budget in 2021.» Proposal No. 72 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to examine the consequences for those affected by the removal of holiday pay on day-to-day pay. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with proposals for the revised national budget in 2021.» Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to examine the impact on those affected by the housing aid cuts in recent years. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with proposals for the revised national budget in 2021.» Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to examine the consequences for those affected by the cuts in the children’s allowances. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with proposals for the revised national budget in 2021.» Proposal No. 76 sounds: «The government asks the government to examine the consequences for those who have been hit by years of cut purchasing power for many old-age pensioners. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with proposals for the revised national budget in 2021.» Proposal No. 77 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the consequences for those affected by child-restraint cuts for children in Finnmark and Nord-Troms. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with proposals for the revised national budget in 2021.» Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the consequences for those affected by the cuts in free legal aid. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with proposals for the revised national budget in 2021.» Proposal No. 79 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to examine the consequences for those affected by the transitional aid cuts for lone dependants. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with proposals for the revised national budget in 2021.» Proposal No. 80 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the consequences for those who are hit by the cuts in social benefits to the car for those who depend on it to get to the store or to the doctor. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with proposals for the revised national budget in 2021.» Proposal No. 81 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the consequences for those affected by the cuts in free physiotherapy for burns, people with developmental disabilities, amputees and all the other groups who have to pay for this important treatment. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with proposals for the revised national budget in 2021.» Proposal No. 82 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the consequences for those affected by the birth-care cuts. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with proposals for the revised national budget in 2021.» Proposal No. 83 sounds: «The government asks the government to examine the consequences for those affected by the cut in redundancy payments. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with proposals for the revised national budget in 2021.» Proposal No. 84 sounds: ‘The government is asked to examine the consequences for those affected by the cuts in the criminal justice system and the courts. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with proposals for the revised national budget in 2021.» Proposal No. 85 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to examine the impact on all those affected by the cuts in stoma equipment and pay particular attention to the situation of children. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with proposals for the revised national budget in 2021.» Proposal No. 86 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to examine the distributional consequences of the cuts in property taxes and inheritance taxes on the distribution in society and whether any impact on business can be demonstrated. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with proposals for the revised national budget in 2021.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2295	There is a vote on proposal No. 62, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to instruct Health South-East to carry out, as soon as possible, a full and effective investigation of the Ullevål option, during the period of waiting for a response from the Planning and Building Session in Oslo to the plans that have been provisionally adopted. In particular, consideration must be given to the protection of infectious diseases, potential new pandemics and sufficient future needs for the capacity of sick leavers.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2312	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Six and seven from the Center Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the planning of a third runway on the Gardermoen’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to initiate a renegotiation of the 1944 Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation so that international aviation can take its share of the climate commitments.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2336	There is a vote on proposal No. 16th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for work to be carried out by the government on the transfer of tasks from the county to the county councils which do not deal with control, complaint or supervision.’ The Labour Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2353	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 11, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a halt to the reduction in the provision of services at its traffic stations in the State Road Administration.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to ensure immediately that all health establishments provide adequate accompanying services to all women who have more than 1.5 hours of travel to a food establishment.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2377	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Eight and fifteen from the Center Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to increase the CO 2 uptake in Norwegian forest areas.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: «The government is asking the Government to bring proceedings against the Stortinget, where the State assumes responsibility for the guarantee of national toll loans, both on current and future projects.» The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2405	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. One, two, four, five, ten, and fourteen from the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate the reversal of the aggregation of the counties if the counties so request.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the staff of the local police and the first line security of the police.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds in changed form: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the contract for the continuation of the covid-19 helicopter in Tromsø.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a statement on Norway’s relationship with the EU in the field of energy.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure quality assurance of the Single Municipal Journal Solution Akson through a public consultation.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The government asks the government to compensate the municipalities and county councils fully for the effect of tax failure, loss of income, and additional costs associated with the coronary apathy.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2450	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Three, twelve and thirteen from the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that higher education institutions pay attention to their regional responsibilities and decentralised education throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure a monitoring of public authorities’ management of visitor restrictions and stoppages in homes for the elderly and disabled during the coronary apathy, either as a self-assessment or by clarifying the mandate of the Corona Commission to this effect.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for economic models for the development of new active antibiotics that promote drug development, not sales and use, where both reward mechanisms and tax/taxation are considered as an instrument.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2477	There is a vote on proposal No. 36, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to cap itself on construction fees, based on the most efficient municipalities, to ensure that citizens receive cost-effective and time-efficient services in construction matters.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2492	There is a vote on proposal No. 35, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken by the government, which together will help to eliminate the impact of annual under-regulation of pensions.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2509	There is a vote on proposal No. 37, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the National Audit Board to examine State grants to organisations in order to ensure that the purpose of the grant is adequately achieved.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Red have announced support for the proposal. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2529	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 70 and 89, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive review of Norwegian aid that has gone to countries that are below the red level of Transparency International’s corruption index to reveal how much aid is being misused. [[38 points and lower]] Furthermore, the government is asked to come back with the result of the review and, at the same time, to submit proposals on how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can better ensure that aid does not disappear in or contribute to corruption.» Proposal No. 89 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to provide the Storting with appropriate information on the point of the political platform on ‘Implementing a certification scheme for teachers and possible protection of the teacher’s title during the period’.» The Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals. The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2555	There is a vote on proposal No. 38, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to promote the necessary legislative change that determines that no municipality can place people between 0 and 50 years, in hospital against their own will. In the case of children, the will of the next of kin shall be that of the next of kin.’» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2572	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose legislative changes to ensure that the old-age pension during payment is regulated according to the real average price and wage growth.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2589	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Grand Duchy to take action with concrete proposals that will increase the level of organisation of work, including closer and more committed tripartite cooperation and a doubling of the trade union deduction.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2606	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals on the regulation of pensions in 2020 to regulate current pensions with the average wage and price and, at the same time, reverse the wealth tax code adopted in June of this year.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2623	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18 and 21, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: «The government is asked to propose legislative changes to the private sector pension schemes which ensure that service provision starts from the first crown of salary, that earnings are also earned at a lower rate than 20 per cent, and that membership of pension schemes is also granted for persons under 20 years of age.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Law on Social Security which require the reintroduction of the holiday supplement scheme for the beneficiaries of the day-to-day allowance.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2648	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24, 25, 27, 29, 32 and 33, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose the removal of the introduced withdrawal period in the AAP scheme and to ensure that persons who have not completed the removal from NAV and/or the health care system are entitled to an extension by the end of the period during which they may receive the unemployment benefit.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to extend until 31 March 2021 the temporary changes in the legislation on day-to-day pay, as well as the income insurance schemes for apprentices and self-employed persons adopted in March.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government, together with the social partners, asks the government to establish guidelines for the proper use of emergency services in connection with COVID-19.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide national guidelines on how to compensate non-profit actors contracted by healthcare companies for the loss of income and any additional costs associated with COVID-19.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asked to continue to take national responsibility for the coordination of the purchase and control of infectious equipment through the COVID-19 pandemic, in order to ensure that hospitals and municipalities have sufficient infectious equipment.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government is authorised to dispose of the Old War School, Tollbugt. 10 in Oslo, for a price, or for a gift, for the foundation of the old school of war. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2693	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals to prevent people who have to stay home from work in order to care for children as a result of national or local measures to prevent them from losing their income.’ The Right Party, the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will support the proposal. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2712	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20, 26, 28, 31 and 34, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to increase the minimum pensions’. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is requesting a national plan for the rehabilitation of people who have undergone COVID-19 and need training as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up clear guidelines on how vulnerable children and young people, addicts, disabled people, people with severe mental health disorders and other vulnerable groups should be protected by a possible new closure’. Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make concrete assessments of more public opinion when requesting the transparency of the overall patient figures for each health region in relation to COVID-19.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government requests the setting up of an expert committee to review Norwegian child protection with a view to improving legal certainty at all stages of the service, where the best interests of the child are to underpin the work of the sample.’ The Right Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2750	There is a vote on proposal No. 88, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of the funding categories of higher education, in order to ensure that education and training such as engineering, teacher training and other training requested in the labour market is properly funded.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal. The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2769	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King be annexed to the minutes at the opening of the 165th Great and the report on the state of the kingdom of Norway. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-06.ana.ud545e2874	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
