ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e37	The President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during this meeting because of the need for infectious diseases. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President would also like to remind you that you can draw on the list of speakers by raising your hand, and that you can draw a line from your place by using the V sign. There is an application for welfare leave from the Left for the representative of Trine Skei Grande from 21 March until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Tina Shagufta Munir Kornmo, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It is also considered to be adopted. As regards the liquidation of today's meeting, the President will state the following: 1 and 2 are over, there will be a break in the meeting, and the meeting will be set at 0 p.m. 14.30 for the examination of case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The President will state that the motions for resolutions on cases No. 1 and 2 have not been out for 48 hours, cf. Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, but nevertheless proposes that they be taken into consideration. No one has indicated any objections to it – and it is considered adopted. At the request of the Financial Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e87	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e94	There have been some quite extraordinary days for Norway since a little over a week ago, some strong health restrictions have been imposing on people, businesses and self-employed throughout Norway. In this context, the government and the Storting have taken some important and absolutely necessary decisions to ensure the income base for people, to secure the enterprises and to ensure the self-employed. In the first phase, it has been important to ensure that enterprises that have been active for a long time, historically, which are solid enterprises, but which have come into an emergency situation, are helped to get through the crisis, that we, as a society, are to stand up for employees who have been permitted, cancelled or otherwise affected by the crisis, and for self-employed workers who have been without income protection. We provide new arrangements, where all parties on the Storing together, in cooperation, in close dialogue with the government, find measures that can work in the short term, not that the crisis will not be noticed – it will be noticed, and it will be felt hard – but we are jointly trying to make the situation a little less bad for those who are affected. In the case we are dealing with here, a large part of the measures that have been taken so far. There are powerful measures. We have jointly contributed financial measures of 66 billion. kr. The budget balance has been so far assessed to be weakened by 111 billion. kr. It's uncertain because things go so fast and the extent of, for example, the use of the important safety net we have through our welfare systems changes from day to day, from hour to hour. But there have been absolutely necessary measures, and we are prepared for new measures to come in the days and weeks to come. In what has been presented here, there are several new measures. The decision was taken on Monday by a government to secure the critical infrastructure we have in Norway, among others. aviation related. In the case we have here, the government's follow-up to it, with important measures both related to offering guarantees to the companies and by helping to improve liquidity together. We have reduced both taxes and taxes, including in the case of the FOT routes. Since this is going so fast, it is demanding for the government in writing propositions to keep up with the decisions Stortinget is making, before they present their new cases. That is why we have made it clear in the committee that the government will of course take the view that they follow up the decisions taken by the Stortinget, among others. in the case of FOT routes. In terms of VAT rate, there is also a lot going on, and it happens quickly. That is why, on the part of the Committee, we have said that we are postponing the reduction in the low rate of VAT one week, so that the uncertainty that one has related to the EEA issue is clarified. The majority of the sizes are determined by the decisions taken earlier this week, but if it appears that one cannot be established over time, one must either further reduce the rate of VAT or take other measures. Then there is a comprehensive decision in a banking package with loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, where we join the government's proposal and are committed to taking business across the country, to have a mid-term evaluation, and to come back with further measures over time to ensure that the gaps for businesses and businesses in those industries that are not yet sufficiently secure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e111	As the rapporteur said, this is a package that has been dealt with in about 24 hours — a large package — and it integrates into the range of policies already adopted in order to support workers who lose income when they leave or lose their jobs. Now we're adopting a package that makes sure that people also have a job to do when the crisis is over, but there's a lot of people out of work, so there's also a note in the attitude that it's time to consider extending the length of the leave period. To have to deal with other income insurance schemes at a time when Nav has been overworked seems unnecessary. Many businesses throughout the country and in all kinds of industries now experience temporary but acute liquidity problems. Our responsibilities include: to give them access to capital to survive for a time to come. The size now allows businesses to obtain that capital either in the bank or through the bond market. It is essential that the enormous resources now deployed by the community be used for their intended purpose. We grant money to secure the Norwegian business and secure the jobs. When workers across the country are uncertain about the most basic needs of life, we must demand that enterprises that report the need for billions of aid cannot pass huge amounts on to top managers and shareholders. We cannot accept a system that socializes loss and privatizes gain. A good social profile is a prerequisite for the continued broad disintegration of the entire population of government's efforts to rid the country of the crisis. It is gratifying that there is a broad majority around this intention. The working party believes it is positive, but when it says so much of the community's money, it doesn't just keep expectations. We have to make clearer demands that limit the ability to charge dividends and bonuses to management. The package we're handling is for companies that need liquidity. In contrast to the financial crisis, the problem is not that banks now lack soundness. The working party assumes that these schemes will now contribute to the success of the companies, not to strengthen the banks themselves or to relieve their own risks to the public. We support the broad lines of the government's proposal to ensure liquidity in businesses. As fully as there are many details of the arrangement, the government is now given great power to design. The broad powers also include a responsibility to prevent abuse and to ensure that the system meets the needs of businesses as best as possible. The management of the arrangements for government loan guarantees must be a public responsibility and subject to constitutional control. It is essential that financial institutions using the scheme be monitored in order to detect and prevent abuse. There is a lot left to keep the companies alive. Governments have informed us that there will be a new proposition with measures already up to the next week. Then there will be opportunities to come up with new proposals and new schemes that will enable us to manage to save more businesses. Today, we are adopting relief for aviation and several measures on the tax side. We also address challenges related to the travel guarantee scheme. I would like to thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e130	We are in a major crisis that lacks parallels, both nationally and globally, and the situation is escalating at a high rate. It makes great demands on us as politically responsible, and it makes great demands on the ability to rule from day to day, when it escalates. I think we all feel that what we agreed on was the right action yesterday, we might be a little bit more in doubt about today, whether that was the right thing to do or whether that was enough. It's the everyday life we're in now, and it's happening fast. It has been necessary to do things to ensure life and health. At the same time, the measures we have taken have a dramatic impact on the Norwegian economy. The new estimates say that the activity of the private sector in the mainland economy is likely to decrease by 15-20 pst. It'll go down by one-fifth. It has great consequences. While we're dealing with the situation today and tomorrow and the next few weeks, we have to think about what's going to happen in months and years. We have to help now, so that those who are going to be involved and contribute on are able to do so. And the packages we are adopting today are just a handshake for it – getting viable businesses through the crisis to be contributors to value creation, work and therefore what we need to make us all feel good in the future, even if we are strongly affected by this situation. We're helping to preserve through what's going on right now. Yesterday – and now I have to admit that I have to think, because now the days go a little together – we presented a comprehensive package of measures of 6 billion. kr for Norwegian aviation. It is very important, absolutely essential, also that we now get it through formally, so that we can maintain and ensure a minimum level of flight provision, which is a central part of our infrastructure. We have a lot of other measures, and I'm not going to hit everyone here right now. Some are mentioned, some are going to be mentioned, and everything is in the configuration, but overall all the measures we now have that counteract income loss and improve the liquidity of business and households, 280 billion. kr – 280 brd. kr. It is a strong contribution, and it is necessary. The banks and financial institutions are the ones that can help us in the part we are now dealing with. They are closest to making assessments of the packages submitted, with guarantees, so that small and medium-sized enterprises can be helped through the crisis. And the state stands up. The state takes 90 pst. of the guarantee liability. It also means that it must be a contribution from the others, but we take responsibility. This must be done quickly. That's why it's good that we've done well to get together on this, and now again we're assembled to get this quickly in place. Then it is that in dealing with these matters and through the e-mail box we are told of ever-new groups that need help. We're going to work on that. A group that is crucial to the creation of value and jobs in the future is our founders, it is our innovations. We also need to consider how we can help. We have addressed this clearly in the committee's comments that we need to put in place mechanisms that will also help them. Finally, I just want to stress that we are clear that dividends and bonuses are not the time for now. Someone has to do it to keep the business they own and operate alive, but beyond that it has to be restrictive. We closely monitor developments, assess all inputs, and further action will be taken on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e147	Again: Thank you for your cooperation across the board. We have taken decisions this week that have enormous costs for society. We also know that there's going to be revenue failure, and we know that not taking the necessary steps in this situation is going to cost the country a lot, a lot more. There is a difficult situation in companies. What's the main problem now is that the cash register is getting empty in many places, and you have problems with liquidity. That is why it is very good that a state guarantee scheme is now in place, where the state goes in and provides a guarantee of 90 pst. of the amount of the loan. Then Stortinget has expectations that the banks will set up, and I also have expectations that the banks will now lower interest rates, so that what is now done from the governor will benefit the customers. It's late, and I hope that the pace of that process can go faster. We have also put in place the State bond fund, which is to contribute to increased liquidity, capital, on the bond market. And it has to be further worked. Many entrepreneurs in this country who have followed their dreams, started on their own and will develop their own jobs, are now in a very difficult situation. Many of these do not come under the arrangements that Stortinget has now adopted. Therefore, it is important that we put in place accurate arrangements that can also help those who have the opportunity to be viable, as we need in the future, to deal with this crisis. There will be an important task this week: to work together to find reliable arrangements for them. Then we're going to defer payments of VAT, employers' taxes and advance taxes. It's tempting to say that we're pushing the problems. For the Progress Party, we are convinced that we need to talk about both the reduction that has now been done in several areas and the exemption. If we just push and postpone these deadlines, a lot of people will have big problems, because it has to be paid once. But we're going to have to do that eventually. At least we are convinced that it will be necessary. So to the aviation and the FOT routes: we're recording that what was adopted in Stortinget a few days ago has not been followed up in this proposition, and of course we expect the government to continue working on and doing, because these FOT routes are the backbone of the transport offer in many parts of the country. Both in North Norway and in the West you are totally dependent on this offer, and it must be the day that this crisis is over, both for people and for businesses in these areas. Then we also have one thing about reducing the VAT from 12 pst. to 8 pst. from 1 January, as adopted by the Stortinget. We record that we are working on finding solutions to implement Stortingen's decision on this. We hope to find a solution over the next week, because it will mean a lot to many of the travel businesses that are now struggling around the country. We will follow closely what comes from the government there, so that the intention of the Stortinget to relieve the burden on that part of the business will happen. So we've moved one step further, but there's also a lot left. And I must, as the representative Harberg, just stress that for every day that goes, there are new issues. We get new things that show that we constantly have to find new solutions to save the viable businesses that we want to have in this country after this crisis is over. It is dramatic to see that almost 200,000 people have now had to contact Nav, that they have either been cancelled or permitted. There's only one thing to do, and that's to continue working together to get the country through this crisis, so that as many people as possible have a job to go back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e164	Today, Stortinget is dealing with the second crisis package to address the consequences of the measures against the coronary virus. As others have already pointed out, there will be a need for more crisis packages in the future and, unfortunately, this will not be the last crisis package we are dealing with here. The establishment of the Loan Guarantee Facility makes it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to obtain loans from banks in the future by taking over some of the risks from the State. This is a right and necessary measure that benefits both people and business. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that it is the community that is now preparing to help businesses over a demanding period of time. Large sums are spent on both this and other measures, and it is reasonable that some demands are also made on the banks and companies that benefit from this. For when society contributes to a crisis package that banks also benefit from, directly or indirectly, inter alia: through the proposals on loan guarantees, bond funds, tax deferral and reduced capital buffer requirements for banks, one must also be able to expect that the companies currently receiving aid do not take advantage of the opportunity to enrich their owners by making dividends. I believe that most of us in this room share – yes, together with the rest of the population too – but expectations from this room alone are not enough. We have to make demands on that. Therefore, SV has proposed that companies and banks that are now receiving emergency aid should not be allowed to make dividends as long as the aid is effective. Financial supervision has encouraged banks to hold back dividends as a result of a reduction in capital requirements in order to ensure that the soundness of the banks is not impaired. It's especially important in the time we're in now. A temporary dividend suspension will also contribute to the maximum effect of the loan guarantee on the desired effect in the form of increased credit. That is why we are today promoting proposals that banks should not be able to make dividends until the capital buffer is raised again. The second thing I want to address here is the need for social transformation. In addition to the crisis caused by the outbreak of the virus, Norway has been hit hard by falls in the oil price. These recurrent crises in the oil market remind us of the need to get us more legs to stand on – both for climate reasons and for Norwegian jobs. The one-sided oil drive we're on now makes us unnecessarily vulnerable, and now we're seeing a taste of the consequences it's having for people. So now, when we are dealing with huge crisis packages, it is important that demands are made that contribute as much as possible to preserving and building up what we will live on in the future, rather than continuing to invest heavily in investments with high climate risks. Today, Stortinget adopts a large aviation rescue package. One can, of course, discuss whether it is right to go in with state resources to maintain as many airlines as possible, one of which has chosen a seemingly very risky strategy with high levels of indebtedness. However, when the government and the majority are in favour of this, we have to interpret it as an understanding now that the state can go in and save individual companies that are particularly important to society and the economy. We therefore expect the government to propose similar guarantee schemes, or, where appropriate, state acquisitions, for other critical industries and firms threatened with bankruptcy, in particular if they are in key competence for the green transition Norway is going through. With this, I want to address the suggestions SV has made or is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e185	The representative of Solveig Skagvoll Foss has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e190	Norway and the world are in a dramatic situation with an escalating pandemic. The measures we are implementing have enormous economic consequences, and it seems almost amazing that it is only a little over a week since we came up with our dramatic actions, and how much has happened that week. I think it's important that we carry with us why we've come up with these dramatic measures. It's to keep the coronary outbreak within a framework that makes us have a functioning health care system that has the capacity for intensive treatment, so we can take care of those who get really sick from this virus. We have been able to maintain that capacity in Norway for the time being, and it is essential that we do so in the future. Then we have to face the economic consequences of the dwindling of the economy and of the measures – what that means. Over the course of this week, we have come up with a lot of measures. There has been a good cooperation at Stortinget – I am also pleased with the good cooperation we have had in the past 24 hours. A package was put in place on 16 March, in particular to counteract the dramatic loss of income for workers, for self-employed workers and for freelancers, and we put in place good and improved arrangements with a consensus on the Stortinget. On 19 March, we received measures aimed both at culture and sport and at those in the front line to combat the outbreak we are in, whether it be health businesses, municipalities and counties or Nav. So to the enormous costs, to the means that we've put at our disposal this past week. There are measures of a total of 65 billion. kr, and there are supplies and tax payments in the order of 120 billion. kr. Today we set up two loan and guarantee schemes. It was already announced on 15 March, with the State bond fund, but also the State guarantee scheme for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises – together of a total of 100 billion. kr, which may be provided as a guarantee. This is very important, especially towards small and medium-sized enterprises. But we in the Committee have stressed that with these measures, too, there are some people we are not taking to the full, especially entrepreneurs and start-ups, and we have pointed in a joint note to what is to be presented by the government next week, that it is particularly important to look at measures to those companies. We also agree that in the areas of travel and tourism, we need further action. We are also pointing forward to next Friday, whether the government will also take further action in this respect. We also ask ourselves the question as to whether the situation may be so acute that it would be necessary for the government to notify this earlier than next Friday. I would also like to underline the shifts in tax payments, which are important. In this proposition, it is about postponing employers' taxes and advance taxes, which will have a significant impact on many enterprises in the liquidity situation they are currently in. Then it is important that we now get measures against air transport, for example. that we maintain basic offers with the purchase of air routes. It is unusually important on the short-haul network that we are able to maintain the minimum offer that we now need, and then we need to ensure the liquidity of airlines with Norwegian airline licences. There are some actors, they are in different situations, but there are also strict conditions in the proposition for the aid granted. I would also like to point out that we are still working on having good alternatives to air transport. We're going to get it more environmentally friendly, more biofuels, and we're going to get electrification. But we're in the situation we're in now, need to secure the Norwegian airlines for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e211	Once again, I am pleased that we have reached a broad consensus on another crisis package. It's working fast now, but as long as we can agree across the political divides on key issues, we'll find good solutions. We've proved this for the last week. We are totally dependent on aviation in Norway. We are a long country with relatively few inhabitants. In the north, aviation is essentially considered to be local public transport. It's an offer you're totally dependent on to make everyday life go up. Having a good and healthy competition between several companies on the highest possible routes in Norway is also a good thing for consumers who are dependent on travelling. Now we are in a situation where the airlines that are responsible for all domestic flights are in a serious crisis. Then it is absolutely necessary that we take action. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the government, which has reacted quickly to this matter and has put in place all the necessary and important measures. It is also important to clarify that with Norwegian air carriers also means helicopter carriers, in line with the definition of the Air Safety Authority. The significant challenges in aviation also have a ring-fenced impact on airports. With a sharp decline in air traffic, the economic situation of its airports will also be challenging. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the government closely monitor the situation of its airports, both those operated by Avinor and the non-governmental airports, and propose measures to remedy the situation. It is essential that key aerodromes do not disappear because of this situation, and we are committed to maintaining today's airport structure. It is therefore essential that both Avinor and private airports should be compensated for the loss of airport charges in order to ensure further operation. The majority has also asked the government to compensate the airlines operating the FOT routes for the difference between the loss of revenue and the loss of costs on the FOT routes as a result of the corona pandemic, and that subsidies to the FOT routes are paid in advance each month until further notice. The government writes in the proposition that it will renegotiate the contract with the main operator after it has experienced a significant loss of income, which was not taken into account when the contract was concluded. I want to underline once again the significance of these FOT routes in very many communities. It would be very serious for both individuals and businesses if these routes were to disappear. We are very pleased that the government is now establishing government loan guarantees for all the sectors concerned. The measures against the spread of infection are hard on individual businesses and industries, not least the industries that have been instructed by the authorities to shut down their activities and service industries such as tourism, restaurants and sporting and cultural events. Small and medium-sized enterprises are mainly using banks to provide finance, and it is crucial in this situation that we now have a guarantee system that provides bank risk-absorbing and ensures that they still have a lending market that works for these companies. For larger companies, the bond market is the main source of finance. We are pleased that the government is restoring the bond fund and thus contributes to the continued functioning of the bond market and giving companies the opportunity to raise funding, but also to refinance existing debt. We are in a crisis situation that requires us to take exceptional action. Then there is also a heavy responsibility on the actors who receive that kind of support. I would like to stress again with all due clarity that we assume that companies that use the state's relief measures, such as: government loan guarantees, government bond financing or liquidity relief during the duration of the loan do not raise dividends from companies beyond what is necessary to keep them in operation. The same applies to pay and bonuses; it is essential to show great restraint in granting something extra now. This also applies to banks and financial institutions, which are now given the risk-absorbing of public finances and access to liquidity through the central bank. If restraint is not shown now, it will be more demanding in the future to take action both in this crisis and in future crises.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e232	Both the disease situation and the economic situation are becoming increasingly serious. The number of perimeters is increasing dramatically. A lot of people have been in an uncertain situation. Over a week, a number of applications for daily allowances equal to more than 5 pst have been received. by the labour force. That is why the Greens are pleased that we are today united on several comprehensive measures. The Green Party supports the government's proposal for a guarantee scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises, and we support the restoration of the State bond fund, which is intended to strengthen large enterprises' access to credit. However, the Greens do not support the government's proposal for loan guarantees for the aviation industry. We are critical of the special treatment of an individual company to which the government's proposal refers, by providing room for a high loan guarantee, even if one is unable to meet the requirement for equity. The package implies that the State takes a very high financial risk on behalf of taxpayers and provides a particularly good framework for a single company. The Greens want a crisis policy for the aviation industry that ensures that the industry can perform basic societal functions and preparedness functions both during the current crisis and in the future. This applies not least to the maintenance of an offer on the short-haul network and on routes where aeroplanes are the only option. The fact that we say no to the government's crisis package today does not mean that we are opponents of crisis aid to the aviation industry – on the contrary. We support both tax cuts and the proposal under consideration today on increased appropriations for the purchase of air transport by the State. In addition, we are in favour of proposing that the government compensate the airlines operating the so-called FOT routes, which are important for the districts. We are also not necessarily opponents of our own loan guarantees to the airlines, but we cannot therefore support the government's proposals as they now exist. Although Norway is in a crisis situation, we need to be able to have two thoughts in our head at once. We know that the world has to stop investing in new fossil energy to avoid directing itself into a permanent and irreversible crisis, which also threatens life and health. That is why it is important that the crisis policy we are adopting today helps to turn the economy in a greener direction. Oil dependence is not just harmful to the climate. It also makes Norway particularly vulnerable in times of recession. Now that the state is going hard to support business, we should do it in a way that prevents the crises that my generation has been given the responsibility to deal with. However, we do not believe that companies that supply or are connected to the petroleum industry should be completely excluded from the arrangements we are adopting today, but we believe that the framework of the loan arrangements must guide investments towards sustainable activities that can provide lasting jobs and revenues. With that, I take up the Greens' proposals in substance. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e260	The representative of Hulda Holtvedt has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e265	We are in a serious crisis. Today, we are dealing with several measures that Red will vote for, but we think there should be much clearer conditions with the measures being put in place. Now, society provides huge resources – and that's right – to banks and businesses. It must not end up in a dividend party for the shareholders, but benefit ordinary people and those who are struggling. We cannot have a system where the private enrichment of a few owners is almost limitless in good times, while the community enters and takes the losses in times of crisis. It is unfair and will also further increase differences in society. The majority, to be said, expect a holding of restraint from the capital owners. We want something a little bit more tangible than these expectations. We want to put the community ahead of the self-sufficiency of the few. We want to demand those who receive emergency packages to refrain from a dividend and bonus party. When historically many now leave off or lose shifts and assignments, people are worried about whether they can pay off the mortgage next month. Now several banks have announced that they will not let customers take part in the extraordinary cuts in the interest rate before the end of April. It's unacceptable. It also means that banks actively slow down the impact of a very important crisis response launched by the Storting. When the Storting provides banks with these crisis packages, banks must also be required to reduce interest rates on loans at the same rate and size as the management rate. Interest rates must quickly benefit borrowers. I've noticed – and I'm glad – that Siv Jensen was on the same line in the media last night, so if the Progress Party and the other parties are voting for our proposal in today's debate, the Stortinget can ensure that the banks contribute to the effort, so that it doesn't turn out the way it was with the proposal to prevent profits to companies that are receiving emergency aid, where the Progress Party said in the media that they were in favour, but voted against when it came to the play in the hall. This can get a happier outcome to today's meeting. No one can answer how long the coronary apathy will last, and how long it will be to hundreds of thousands of lay-offs come back to work. Red believes, as a trade union movement, that we need to ensure a predictable framework for those who have been outsourced right now. In order to avoid uncertainty and to avoid loss of valuable competence, I believe that the government needs to increase the maximum permeability from 26 to 52 weeks as soon as possible. Red suggests that permanent staff should also be able to receive in-house training. Loan guarantees are fine, but that's not enough. We must actively ensure that Norwegian industrial workplaces are helped over the cracks by building up new industries, and we must allow the companies that permit them to continue to increase their skills and change. It's especially important in the time we're going into. Red will also ensure the jobs of those working in aviation and secure the infrastructure for transport where there are no alternatives to aircraft. But we will also demand that top management and shareholders take a legitimate part of the burden. We have in Stortinget many times discussed Norwegian's corporate structure, which contributes to trade union sknusing. An important part of the response to the climate crisis is that it has to be flown less. It's not changed by the crisis we're in now, or by the package that goes to aviation. As regards the loan guarantee scheme for small enterprises, I would like to point out that a large majority of these companies have less than 50 employees. It is important to ensure that not a small number of large enterprises in the upper tier are linked to too much of the guarantee scheme and that it is organised in such a way that it actually hits the most vulnerable industries. Now the government accepts under this arrangement 90 pst. of all losses from the first heads. We might have to include a high loss share on the loans, but it's a big failure if you don't ensure that the government gets a proportionate share of any surplus from the loans that are actually being repaid. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e286	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e291	It's Saturday, and it's only been 24 hours since the government put forward the bill that Stortinget is now dealing with. It shows that Stortinget takes the situation we're in, in the highest seriousness. It testifies to a great deal of leadership when our country needs it the most, and the will to be in the social dungeon. Position and opposition stand together. It shows that everyone sees that the crisis is now bigger than party politics. I would once again like to thank both the position and the opposition for good cooperation. Through cross-party cooperation, we're going to get through this. In the last week, we have put in place a powerful package of measures to facilitate the management of the economic consequences of the virus outbreak. Our economy has got a hit page, we can't get out of it. The activity in the Norwegian economy will decrease significantly in the near future, and it is uncertain how long it will last. But with the measures government has come together, we are also more likely to be able to fix the cold as we sail into calmer waters again. The measures to be debated now are primarily about improving the liquidity of businesses, both large and small. The goal is to secure the jobs. There are thousands of enterprises in Norway that are normally healthy and viable, but are now struggling to make ends meet. We can't afford to lose these companies. It's the people who make sure that people have a job to go to across the country, it's the ones who create the values that fund our common well-being, and it's our job to help make the most of the jobs survive this crisis. The two loan arrangements proposed by the government have a total framework of over 100 billion. kr. One, the so-called loan guarantee scheme, is aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises with funding from banks. The scheme will make it easier for these companies to get money to get over the edge. The other scheme, the State bond fund, is intended to help large companies, those who employ hundreds or thousands of people, borrow the money they need in the market they tend to finance. Right now, that market is not working very well, but with the fund in place, it is likely to be better. At least it shows the experience of the financial crisis. In addition, there is a proposal for both deferred tax and temporary tax relief on the table. The Stortinget proposals are to be voted on today, and the measures to increase and increase government support earlier this week will, overall, counter income losses and improve the liquidity of Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian households with a total of 280 billion. kr – 280 brd. That is to help those who are now carrying our country through a crisis that is lacking in parallel in modern times. We're preparing for different scenarios. The time we live in is uncertain. The measures are about building a bridge to the everyday life as we knew it – a bridge that can secure jobs and businesses. We're going to do what's needed to secure Norwegian jobs. Many measures have been taken. Now we're assessing the whole picture and whether there's someone falling between the different schemes and thus need other measures. Founding and starting companies can be examples of this, and we address in the proposition that is being dealt with today, that this is something the government is already working on. Our job, both at large and in government, is to facilitate that activity and employment can speed up the day the infection control measures and the coronary virus outbreak slow down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e310	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e315	Once again, I would like to thank the Council of State and the Government for their good cooperation along the way for a demanding time. To enable people to live and work throughout Norway, it is important to have a network of both small and large viable enterprises. Therefore, such measures and guarantee schemes as one puts forward here are incredibly important. Then a great deal of responsibility is placed on the banks in the follow-up to the loan guarantee scheme. We think that's very wise in the situation that we're in right now. At the same time, it is incredibly important what the government has also put forward, and which has been reinforced by Stortinget, to have a mid-term assessment to see that one actually meets the target, that one hit businesses and businesses throughout Norway. Then the question becomes to the Council of State: how will a certain person ensure it in the mid-term evaluation, and also ensure that the Stortinget is involved in a good way when it comes to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e324	Let me first express great joy at the fact that there is such broad agreement on the two arrangements that are now in place. It has been essential for the government to get them in place quickly and to ensure that the money also comes out into the companies. Then it's the existing banking system that's the tool for it. The banks are in the situation we're now in, part of the solution. Therefore, cooperation between banks and businesses is so important. So it's true that we've pointed to a mid-term evaluation. That's precisely because we have to see how this works. We're totally dependent on it working, and it works all over the country. I have noticed the comments made by the Committee in the vote, and we shall make such an assessment and also inform the Size appropriately.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e331	I thank you for your answer. With the guarantee mechanism put forward, as well as other measures, the key and crucial role of banks throughout Norway is to facilitate the provision of loans to small and medium-sized enterprises and also larger enterprises. It is also important, of course, that the banks have the necessary security. For banks, loans shall be provided with a long-term perspective, hopefully, not only through this scheme, but also through other arrangements. It is then important that the banks have a security regarding the loans they can obtain. The Council of State will consider how to ensure greater security for banks, for example: through the long-termity of F-loans, and other things – that one ensures that the banks are safe to provide long-term loans in the current phase?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e338	Now there is a division of labour between the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Norway. Norway’s Bank has already implemented important measures to contribute to increasing liquidity for banks. Norway’s Bank also gave advice to the Ministry of Finance to reduce the countercyclical capital buffer. This means that capital requirements have been lowered and that banks now have considerable room for action to assist companies. What we're getting now is also a system in which the government guarantees a large part of the loans. It also gives banks greater security. So I'd like to add that we've spent the good time increasing the capital and buffers of the banks. This makes the Norwegian banking system today more robust than it would otherwise have been. We also have a solid state economy. It makes us have some of the muscles that are going to, so we can get through this demanding time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e347	I want to start by thanking the Minister of Finance for very good cooperation on this package and looking forward to a good cooperation. We've been into the banks, and there's a lot of work done, among other things. with the countercyclical capital buffer. A State guarantee scheme for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises has now been put in place. The central bank manager has also done a good job of setting interest rates down in several rounds. But we note that it is late for the banks to come after and set the interest rate, so that this benefits the customers. I would like to stress that we at Stortinget are quite impatient on behalf of customers and think that this is going on late. Does the Minister of Finance agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e355	Let me also take the opportunity to thank Sylvi Listhaug and the Progress Party for their good cooperation in the demanding situation we are currently in. I believe it has great self-esteem, the broad political cooperation we now have. It is true that the Norwegian Bank has reduced interest rates in two rounds, and I believe that both companies and households have a clear expectation that the banks will also follow. Of course, so does the Minister of Finance. But we have to trust that the banks do this in such a way that they also take into account what is going to be good banking. Because here too, it must be made possible for the banks to be solid through the crisis we now have. But I share the impatience that is, both in households, in businesses and in the political environment, that banks are also following.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e362	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e367	Air carriers constitute a central part of the critical infrastructure of the country. Both goods and people are transported around the country by plane, and some places are the distances so large that the planes are to be considered collective offers in line with bus or tram other places. The government and a broad majority of the parties on the Stortinget want to contribute to the fact that, both during the Korona crisis and afterwards, there can be a proper flight offer in the country. At this point, we have no idea what a possible bankruptcy of one or more of the three largest airlines would entail. It is possible that the offer could be rebuilt and that the competitive situation could be restored. But it's uncertain, and it could also take a lot of time. The government has wanted to help avoid bankruptcy. At the same time, we must be careful to use public funds when supporting owners and creditors who have accepted a high risk. The state will contribute, but we will also make demands. The action we are now taking is important in order to ensure the necessary capital for the airlines. A warranty facility with a 6 billion frame is now available. kr. This guarantee facility will be offered to all Norwegian air carriers, following a distribution key where Norwegian can access 3 billion. kr, SAS may have access of SEK 1,5 billion. kr, and Onøe and the other companies can have access to the remaining 1.5 billion. kr. Loans to companies will be guaranteed up to 90 pst. The remaining 10 pst. must be covered by a commercial operator, i.e. a bank or other financial institution. The scheme may be used over a period of 3 months and the repayment period is set at a maximum of 2 years. We also demand that the equity of the airlines to participate in the scheme be 8 p.m. at the end of the last quarterly reporting period. Norwegian does not meet the 8 pst equity requirement. on the last quarterly reporting. Therefore, we will impose some additional requirements for them to have access to this traction facility. Firstly, all existing financial creditors must agree to cancel interest and defer repayments for a period of 3 months. The company must also make improvements during this three-month period that would give an equity share of 8 pst. by the quarter of the previous reporting period prior to the virus outbreak. Guarantee premium and instalments shall be due to the country before other creditors as long as the equity requirement is not met. In order to allow Norwegian to meet the requirements, the framework will be divided into three different phases. Norwegian will have a guarantee of up to 300 million. kr without any conditions other than 10 pst. external participation, which I have just explained. In phase two they will have a guarantee of up to 1.2 billion. kr by the cancellation of interest by existing creditors and deferment of instalments for a three-month period. The rest of the guarantee will be available when the company improves its soundness and meets the equity requirement. This package now being made available to aviation could provide access to the necessary capital in what is a very difficult period for aviation. There are conditions that will be difficult to meet, especially for Norwegian, but we now believe that we have found a balance between contributing and making demands. Among other things, the company's present lenders and creditors must also be involved and contribute. The decisions taken today by the Stortinget are important contributions to keeping the wheels going and getting Norwegian business through this crisis. At the same time, the government has been clear that our work is taking place at different stages, and we are still working to assess the impact of different industries in this coronary crisis. Different industries meet the challenges in different ways and at different times. I would also like to mention that start-up and growth companies have difficulties. It is possible that they fall between some chairs in these action packages that have been provided, and the government continues to work to assess the situation and remedy the situation. Finally, I thank the Storting for the cooperation around this proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e390	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e395	Governments spent a lot of their time talking about aviation. In the current crisis, a truly critical social infrastructure for aviation has been seen to bind Norway together. Important measures have been taken in the follow-up to what a unanimous increase took place on Monday, namely that a government has been called upon to ensure the provision of critical social infrastructure and specifically related to aviation. It is available from among others: government proposals, which we support on the part of Stortinget, for entering into state purchases on some routes that do not have a temporary basis for commercial operation. That's good. In addition, in the case of existing State purchases of air routes, where revenue has been reduced, the Storting has been concerned that the net reduced revenues are to be fully compensated for by the carrier. Can the Council confirm that this will be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e400	Of course, the government is aware of the decisions taken by the Stortinget and is following it to the best of its ability. In my post, I was very busy talking about the crisis that is here and now, and the need for the airlines has too much liquidity to get through that crisis and over on the other side, so that we should still be able to maintain a good flight offer throughout the country. That's our goal. I am very pleased that the Storting agrees with the government that there has been a need, and that together we have found a system in which we can both help the airlines during this difficult period and can also make demands for them to receive this assistance. I believe that together we have found a system that is important for aviation as it is now. Then I am quite sure that Minister of Transport Knut Arild Hareide will also come back to aviation as a whole in his contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e405	I thank you for your answer. Governments also discussed how to facilitate viable small and medium-sized enterprises. It is a great responsibility for us as a community to help companies get through the crisis. The measures we are implementing now will be important to help businesses through the crisis, but also to ensure that, when we are in a more normal everyday life in Norway, different people who have ideas, who have capital, who show a willingness to invest, for one sees that a community is part of a community that is willing to set up when the crisis strikes. We are taking important measures today, but there are also some that may not be taken well enough of the measures, linked to entrepreneurs, start-ups, but also to other existing businesses in travel and other sectors. How does the Council of State see that they can be cared for in a good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e410	It's a critical situation for a large part of our business a day. One thing is the phase we're in right now, where there's pretty intrusive measures going on, but the companies are going through it, and then we're going to have a business life on the other side that's growing, that's viable, that's contributing to the community and the welfare state that we're now enjoying. This is what both the government and the Stortinget have wanted in the crisis packages we have put forward, which are now also adopted. Enterprises that are small and in the start-up phase may also benefit from much of what has already been adopted. At the same time, we are aware that perhaps especially start-up companies can fall outside the guarantee and loan schemes that we have now submitted, and therefore the government writes in the proposition that we will continue to work and look at other measures as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e415	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e420	The airline has not experienced anything similar in modern times, so it has been important for the government to work as quickly as possible with what the Stortinget asked of us, and come back with measures related to aviation. We now get, as it is in this proposition, and as I'm very happy that there's such a broad consensus about the Storting, a minimum range of routes in Norway. There will be routes that we are familiar with, there will be routes between Oslo and Trondheim, Bergen and Oslo, from Vardø and Vadsø to Tromsø. There will be routes that we're familiar with, but there will be a minimum need in this time. Normally it would be our commercial offer. I don't think there's a basis for that now. Then we get this offer in place, and I am happy that the Storting is on. This Agreement, with the stipulation that the Storting will take a decision today, will enter into force on 25 March. There's a serious situation associated with Korona, and we know that there's a lot of Northmen who want to come home. They have had close contact with the U.D., and we have set up additional flight routes. We have hoped that the offer that we now see will fall away will be a little longer, just so that the Nordics can come home, and that many tourists who are in Norway will be allowed to come to their homeland. Here I must also give a great deal of thanks to the companies that have participated in this. It has to do with SAS, it has to do with Norwegian, and it has to do with Witherøe. So the Minister of Industry has done brilliantly for this guarantee facility that we now provide. And yes, aviation is an industry that also has a slightly special structure, because many of the flights are actually loaned. So if you want to keep a good structure, you need to contribute here. We have seen that both the Swedish and the Danish states have set up, and we therefore represent those companies that have an operating permit in Norway. But we make demands, and to refer to, for example, Norwegian, it's like if they're going to get through this, those who have loans in Norwegian have to be willing to set up. They must have a stoppage, a stoppage of interest during this period. They must help the company to get out of this. And in the next phase, i.e. in the final phase of this guarantee facility, one must also increase the capital requirement, so that also Norwegian can be a well-equipped company to deal with the future in a good way. In many ways, we make the demands that we make, which are not the same way Norwegian has the ability to address their creditors, and we also get a healthier and even better company into the future. Then I'm happy for the engagement that's for the FOT routes. They're part of the collective offer in Norway, and we've clearly understood that in the proposal that's here. We have been working around the clock with aviation, and we have just understood that compensation for the FOT routes is also important. I can also say that Undøe has the possibility of a guarantee facility, together with other companies, with a framework of 1.5 billion. kr. They receive compensation for the FOT routes and the decrease in revenue there, and compensation related to costs, and they are also included in the minimum supply. In the underlying agreement, under the current decision, significant transfers were also to be found, amounting to 8.4 million. kr per week, and then 85 pst. of it. So there are good prospects for a good liquidity situation in the future. With the guarantee facility, with the removal of the air passenger charge, the reduction of VAT, the adoption of a law on permitting that is adapted to the situation, the reduction of the employer's fee, the minimum offer, the suspension of company tax, and the removal of Avinor's fees, we are continuing to provide a good basis for aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e433	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e439	We in the Central Party are very pleased with the clear emphasis of the Council of State on the importance of aviation in Norway as part of the social critical infrastructure and to link Norway, both people and business, and the clear emphasis that the Council of State had on following up the various decisions that the Storting has made and will make, among other things. related to the purchase by the State of air routes and compensation for losses in revenues. Then there are also other parts of the transport sector that are very important as social critical infrastructure and to help make it a little better everyday for people in this crisis. Among other things, the Stortinget has taken decisions asking for reduced rates on some ferries. Then the question is, how does the Council of State view a further follow-up to that decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e446	That's a good question for the representative here, precisely because we're dependent on infrastructure, and we need to get the goods out. Freight traffic is very important in this situation. Therefore it is necessary to have good adaptations on both road, track and sea. We've been working on this, because we need adjustments here. We actually had to cancel the driving schedules. We've done it for 30 days in the situation we're in now. So we have registered that the Storting has also brought about lower rates on the ferries. We're in the process of following up now. Some of the first things we have to do are, of course, enough to make the infrastructure work in the current situation, for example. with permission where necessary. I also see that it has our changes, for example. link to the Hurtigruten, which we have had to spend time on at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e453	We in the Center Party fully understand that. It is about taking the most time-critical first and ensuring that one has a functioning infrastructure throughout Norway in the current crisis situation and trying to do so in the best possible way. I think one of the reasons why, among other things. We have also been concerned with ferry tariffs in this situation, of course there are many, both people and self-employed and others, who have high costs related to ferries, and that in the current crisis situation it will be essential to reduce the costs. That is why we want to say that there is also an important step in the follow-up to the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e458	We are well aware of the decision, and we are in the process of following it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e463	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e470	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its very close cooperation in dealing with this matter. The Committee has been working quite continuously over the last week to try to get through the issues that come from the government at a rapid pace, in order to ensure that those who are affected by the decisions we take are followed up as quickly as possible. The size has also made important clarifications and added new measures in the course of treatment. To the loan guarantee scheme, which has been discussed by a number of speakers: it is incredibly important that it now comes, because many small and medium-sized enterprises around Norway are in a very acute and demanding situation. We fully understand that the government here is working high, and that there are some clarifications that have come along, related to both how to manage the scheme, requirements for recipients, and not least how to ensure that this is a system that targets those who need it from small and medium-sized enterprises throughout Norway. Therefore, I would also like to emphasise from the centre party how important it is for a person to receive a good mid-term evaluation, so that one can take care of – when approx. half of the loan is granted — that it is well geographically dispersed, that it takes different enterprises, both small and medium-sized, and that it becomes an active measure as part of the overall solution. Then we have to come back to new measures gradually. The government has already announced that it will come up with new measures next week. We emphasise on the part of the Committee that there is a part related to entrepreneurs and start-ups, but there may also be others who need to look at schemes for, either within Innovation Norway, GIEK or others, to strengthen or change temporary arrangements. Then there is – it is also evident in this Chamber – a slightly different emphasis on the requirements to be imposed on those receiving emergency measures. I think all the parties agree, and it's also stressed, that one shouldn't have a dividend party now, but at the same time, there are some of us, including the Center Party, who think it would be wise to make some more clear demands than what is being imposed on the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e479	We need to be happy that we have a state economy that can carry 280 billion dollars. kr. – allegedly – in a few weeks. I would like to see the Right-Representative who had said it a three-four weeks ago, but that's another thing. No action, no matter how extensive, can create demand. In fact, they contribute to the reduction of demand and reinforce the challenges of businesses, not in the short term, but in the long term. They do, because they assure the companies that they believe they have support and capital on, but the demand is not possible for the state to create. We live by market economy, we live by supply and demand, and it's important that we take over. So it can create a false security, what we're doing today, and yet it's completely impossible not to do what we're doing. But we also need to know that Norway does not have an inexhaustible state fund that never runs out of money, no matter how much we are trained to believe it. So there's a limit to what we can spend on money. And we use money from the State pension fund, for example, now, that has already lost 30 pst. of the capital value, then we sell at the bottom. Then we really don't finance anything, or we pay double. Taking up loans is unwise, and we cannot finance the government budgets by cutting public budgets, because we need the impulse of the Norwegian economy that we are now creating in a false way. Then we can't cut the government budgets for the future, for the Norwegian economy. So it's about finding the money that's needed to finance this, and it's demanding. No matter how many budget conferences you sit in, it's going to be hard to get that money without using the common fund we've saved. The temporaryity has an end. That is why it is called ‘temporary measures’. So my appeal to the government is that it actually looks forward, looks beyond what it is doing now, gets up the nose tip and looks forward: how are we going to get away from these measures in the future? I see that you have to have a new package next week – and then you have to have a new package in two weeks, a new package in five weeks. But we can't actually live like that. We have to look forward, and then we still have to take over the society we live in. We can't create demand, most people actually do. Supply and demand are the only ones that can create a market economy, whether you are trying to subsidise or pay for leave schemes, etc. People come back, have to get out of work, create jobs. So again, I encourage the government to think more long-term than just think about tomorrow and the voters you have in the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e492	I fully support the package of measures presented by the government, and I am sure it also has that long-termity in it. But I also see in this debate that there are some who are trying to make themselves a little tall and dark in some areas, and kicking in doors that are at least partially open. It's not that the right only has a naive expectation of moderation among shareholders. The Share Act does not allow companies that do not have sound equity and liquidity to adopt dividends. Although dividends would normally be paid on the basis of the accounts of the previous year, i.e. 31 December 2019, material after the end of the year affecting the financial statements shall be taken into account. I think we can safely say that conditions have changed significantly. If a company has to ask for emergency aid, it is obvious that the company lacks liquidity and equity and then has no basis for a return on dividends. In the case of countercyclical capital buffers, this was an EU requirement, through the EEA Agreement, in the wake of the financial crisis. This is part of the capital requirement for banks to become more solid, but also for banks to be able to counteract an economic downturn. When this capital requirement is now reduced, it is precisely to trigger more funds from banks to the market, not to make dividends. I am not surprised that parts of the left-hand side do not understand this, but we who are followers of the market economy should be clearer in our defence of that very thing, and should charge privileges, market protection, subsidies and that taxpayers should take over all the risks. I fully agree that we should not privatise profits while taxpayers take losses. This is simply good right-wing policy. Not all of the demands are going to be legitimate of what we're going to see in the future, even though many of them are, and we're going to answer that. In fact, both the right-hand side and the left-hand side must be on guard, so that the measures we are adopting here today meet those who need them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e505	When I heard the post of the representative Tybring-Gjedde, I thought of what is in a very well-known book: "Everything has its time." If I am not mistaken, it says something like that it is a time to tear apart and a time to sew together. Now it's time to sew together. That's why we from the Labour Party, together with several of the other parties in the Stortinget, are very pleased with the job that both the government and the parties here in the Stortinget quickly did to set up a scheme for the airlines – and let me underline: for airlines operating in Norway. Norwegian, SAS and Onøe are essential for the operation of air traffic, route provision and infrastructure in Norway. They are three completely different companies, and therefore the instruments of the different companies are also different. But I would like to add that it says that it concerns Norwegian and SAS, and it concerns On Island and other airlines with Norwegian airline licences. Other companies are also flying in Norway, for example: we have a significant helicopter operation, and the scheme must also apply to helicopter carriers with Norwegian air traffic licences, as we agreed. It's important for large parts of our business, and it's important for preparedness. It's about air traffic, the ones that fly and operate our airlines, but it's currently also big challenges for the airports. Most of the airports in Norway are operated by Avinor, and in addition we have four to five other non-state airports operating on a regular basis. It is clear that when air traffic is now falling sharply, plus that air charges and airport charges are either greatly reduced or completely removed, it becomes economically very difficult for our airports. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus that the government will look at and come back with measures both for the airports operated by Avinor, and for our non-state airports. Finally, I would like to address another issue, because the Minister of Transport is here. This concerns the Hurtigruten, which I now understand has added all their ships – with the exception of two – to the dock, and which, after an agreement with the state, now runs the Bodø–Kirkenes route. As far as I can see, it's departures every three days. Everyone understands that the Hurtigruten has to limit the route offer, it certainly makes sense, but it is also worth noting that the business community is reporting that there are significant challenges to the fact that it is now only possible to send goods every three days. So I ask the Minister of Transport to take a closer look at that, and whether it is possible to change that arrangement gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e516	As I said, despite all the measures we are now taking, we know that challenges will arise in the future. At the latest today we received a message from someone who is concerned about, among other things. Ferry traffic in Trøndelag and safety there. Such messages will come, I know, and they get a lot of the representatives. Then, of course, I have to go to aviation. I also want to say that it is not often Swearer Myrli and I generally agree on everything, but today I think almost I agreed with what he said most in his post. Aviation is so incredibly important to Norway, and it means so much to large parts of Norway. It's almost a little bit like that that FOT routes were not so many that knew just a few weeks ago, or maybe just a few days ago, but now I think most people in the country are actually starting to see what FOT routes are for something. It's about importance; it's a very important offer to air passengers, perhaps especially in the West and – not least – in North Norway, where it means a lot. It will be like their trains and railways and collective services, as you have here in the East and, of course, around the big cities etc. But it's so incredibly important, and it means so much in large parts of the country. That's why it's so important, what we're doing now. Then I'd like to point out that yes, that's a lot of money we're now making available to the airlines operating in Norway, but that's a hugely special situation we're now in. We have seen that our neighbouring countries, both Denmark and Sweden, have done something for their airlines, and that is in many ways what you are doing here, in addition to making a number of demands in order to get these funds out. There are challenges for maybe Norwegian, even with what is now here, but this at least shows that we are willing to set up, we are willing to be with and contribute in a positive way for the company – but that also means that the company has to set up. There are a lot of employees who are very happy that the big business and government are now coming together to find a solution that we're trying to put in place in a good way. But I'm a little surprised that the Greens will not participate in this proposal and believe that it is because this is directed towards just one company. This is not a package aimed at one company, this is a package for all airlines operating in Norway, and I think that is important. Then I also have to say that it is important that the government and the Stortinget continue what was going on with the private airports, because they are in a very difficult situation now. Avinor is looking at and working with, but both Torp and Haugesund and some others are in a very precarious situation in order to find solutions, and I hope that the government along with the Stortinget will find good solutions for those airports that are non-governmental.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e529	The President will suggest that most things may soon have been said in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e535	I think the President is right, but still. We hear in the debate here that it is suggested that people and society around us should work in everyday life. I would also like to point out that a lot of that infrastructure – both rail, train and tram – is actually what is going well right now, that works. People have the opportunity to use those facilities, even though there are considerably fewer that do. Nevertheless, when you make a package for aviation, it's a package that's largely based on what's done in everyday life, but it'll be reinforced when we're in a crisis. I think that can lead to less bureaucracy, and that we can quickly get on with the solutions that are needed to put in place societal critical infrastructure. In the case of government purchases of non-commercial routes, it is very important, in addition to the FOT routes. Nor should we forget that it has been said that between the big cities you want it to be a minimum offer. To that it is set of a sum of money that makes it possible – in exactly the same way as for the FOT routes, which we are familiar with on our short distance network – to cover the extra costs and lost revenue. We must not forget that, but not many have mentioned it in this debate. So it's set off a sum of money for that as well. With regard to the charging element itself, this is something that aviation has been busy about for a long time, and when we are able to significantly reduce the charges on such short notice, it means purely liquid means to be able to take care of what is very important in such a situation as we have now come up with. Nor should we forget – and we will discuss this in a later debate today – that there must be an apparatus to ensure that this is done in practice. There must be an apparatus that is as unbureaucratic as possible so that all the measures and solutions we decide in the Storting – both the ones we decide today, the ones we have decided, and the ones we will decide – work in practice. When we see the whole country as a whole, this package for aviation will ensure that – just as the train, the tram and the T-Bahn go – the aeroplanes on the short-haul network go out to those who have no other offer. You're going to be able to transport people between the big cities, and the companies can go into that case with a pretty good sense of security. Finally, I would like to say that banks and financial institutions are very important, especially for one of the companies, some of which have been involved here. They have now received a risk-relief, but they are nevertheless very important in the overall solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e554	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. With regard to the further liquidation of today's meeting, the President will state that there is now a break in the meeting. The meeting will be set at 5 p.m. 14.30 for the examination of case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e575	The President will state that the setting of case No. 3 have not been lying out for 48 hours, cf. The Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 46, but suggests that it be taken into consideration. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e591	At the request of the Special Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 10 minutes to each party group and 10 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, replies will be given to replies from members of the government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e600	The law that today's total mass is behind is necessary and extraordinary. It is necessary because we are in crisis and are preparing for it to get worse. It is exceptional because, under strict conditions, we depart from parts of the normal course of action between government and corruption — and in a period of crisis where the principles of the rule of law may be extra important. This crisis endangers life and health, and it affects many people very hard. It evolves rapidly, and it makes it necessary for government and growth to take action on an ongoing basis. The whole community is affected. It is the heavy reality on which the Special Committee has based its work on this law. It is a strength for our country in this situation that the entire committee, all the parties on the Grand Duchy, has gathered on how this can be done with respect for the provisions of the Constitution. For me, it was a prerequisite that we came as close to full agreement as possible. And when we came to the goal of all the parties, I will commend the Grand President, the head of the committee, and my colleagues for the efforts of these hours, day and night, to the outcome. The crisis requires that we strike the right balance between the effective implementation of measures to meet the crisis and restrictions on the exercise of government power. Because there must be restrictions on the power of the government even in a crisis situation. On Wednesday, the government proposed a law to allow the government to deviate from existing laws when it adopts new regulations that are necessary to keep the wheels moving in society during the Korona crisis. The need for such a law is real. According to the Ministry of Justice, there are already hundreds of different areas of society. rules preventing practical emergency measures – measures that are important for people in everyday life, for businesses, for the wheel movement rules that prevent Nav from working and ensure that people receive their daily allowances as quickly as possible; rules that prevent us from moving resources from one department to another, such as: to improve border control or provide more professionals to Nav or other heavily charged institutions in our society rules that do not take into account the extensive postponement of operations in our hospitals, creating extra work for a health service that works on blasts with an emergency situation rules preventing buildings from being used on short notice for temporary hospitals or housing; Individually, these are not societally critical rules. However, they are important for helping people, businesses and society as a whole to meet their needs. Nevertheless, we have been critical in the committee. We've asked for input. We've been listening. We've discussed it. This is an unusual law in an unusual time. For the Workers' Party, and for the majority in this Chamber, it quickly became clear that the government's proposal was too far-reaching and too long. That's why we've changed a lot. It was necessary. The law states emphatically that, if it is sound, the government should follow the normal legislative path with the proposition and treatment in Stortinge. This last week has shown that this house is capable of making decisions quickly, and we will be in the future as well. It is only in exceptional cases and in urgent cases that the law can be applied. The duration of the law is also strongly reduced – to one month. In that case, the law and the rules and decisions taken on the basis of the law will cease. The law may be extended if the majority so wishes. Now we have experience, and from the Workers' Party we are open, if necessary, to extend the law if it turns out to work as intended. Nor does the law give a blank authorisation to deviate from all laws. It specifies certain laws. There's a large number, about 60, where the mandate applies based on a concrete assessment of where it's needed now. And I want to commend the Minister of Justice and Security for working well with the Committee to map the laws that make it possible to define the law as it is now made. The law grants a minority of one third of the representatives in this room extraordinary rights to draw string and say no to a regulation or decision adopted in accordance with the so-called Korona Act. This is a security mechanism that will also apply if the Storting is not assembled, and as I say, for the Workers' Party, that we can stand ready to use if necessary. The law gives the courts extended access to control. The law makes it clear that the measures provided for in this law must be proportionate. It raises the threshold of what measures it may be appropriate to introduce under this law. The law makes it absolutely clear that it is to be practised in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on Human Rights and, as a clear rule, also Norway’s obligations under international law. The entire Committee stresses in its comments that, where the rules of the labour market are concerned, the government shall first assume that the social partners, locally and centrally, shall work to reach agreement. I hear concerns at this point from several parts of the world of work. Therefore, I would like to stress that the Workers' Party will follow closely the government's approach to working life. We also expect the social partners to be conscious of their responsibilities. I say as clearly as I can: the Labour Party will not accept that people at work are being overrun or overheard in a crisis in which workers are being hard hit, and where there are workers who actually keep the wheels running in society. The government will now have a further framework to manage the crisis effectively as a result of the covid-19 outbreak. I believe that this law incorporates a number of decisions since the crisis came, which show that political Norway can work together and stand together when needed. I would like to stress that there have been great improvements for people when matters have been promoted by the government, have been dealt with in Stortinget in the last week. Much has become much better and fairer through the treatment here. The size has shown that it can be worked quickly and smoothly and in line with the provisions of the Constitution. This law does not change our mission as elected and trusted in a demanding time. The Storting has, and takes, its constitutional responsibility. The majority is the country's top state power in a crisis as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e662	I want to start by thanking everyone who is now standing up for us to solve the challenges we are facing, in the crisis situation we are in. There are many around the country, but this also applies to the College here at Stortinget and those who are in government and are going to deal with it from day to day. It's great to experience that we're able to stand together, that we work together to find solutions. We have done so in the packages we have dealt with in Stortinget, and the special committee has now done so. It has been impressive to see how we thought on some points that this was not possible, but have worked further and found out what was going on to achieve a good result, a result that triggers what the government has asked for, that is, help to ensure that the collapse and government in cooperation can manage this crisis in a good way. I would also like to extend an extra thank you to the representative Gahr Støre as the case rapporteur, who has done a formidable job of sewing this together and getting us to agree. Norway is in a totally exceptional situation and urgent action is needed. This temporary law allows us to work faster than we normally could when challenges arise. I'm glad I'm in a country and in a democracy where we can have clear party political debates and dividing lines in everyday life, but put it away when the crisis comes. Then we find effective solutions to heavy and demanding problems. Because we have to keep the wheels of society going. It is also the goal when we deal with this matter and the other matters we urgently deal with at Stortingen these days. The goal is not to give the government a lot of power. No, it's simply that situations arise where today's laws do not take care of the situations that need to be resolved. It has been important to think through: what are we really doing now? What are we doing when we sit and discuss this bill? Well, it boils down to us now facilitating simplified procedures in a crisis situation. Because we're in a crisis situation. Then we have to simplify the procedure. Because this touches on the basic distribution of power, strong minority rights are granted. That's the way we respond to giving us power that we're going to have here in the house, while giving the government the opportunity to act quickly. The law may not be used to affect the independence of the courts or prosecutors. Nor can we derogate from the Basic Law or the Human Rights Act. The law shall help to keep the machinery going and to find solutions for the many who need the assistance of the State. The law will ensure that people and businesses can do what they have to do when we're in the middle of this extraordinary and unwieldy everyday life. When businesses and businesses are on the verge of a crisis because the law is a barrier to them in this situation – it may be because people are in quarantine, and therefore deadlines are not met – we need to be able to resolve it. When individuals and families suddenly stand on a bar without income, even though the Storting may have decided that they should get help, it must be handled quickly, then we must have the opportunity to help. We can now, and I'm very happy that we've taken care of that. We have adopted a good deal of changes in Nav's payments, but we have not adopted changes to the law that regulate Nav's payments. Are we going to wait for the Storting to change the laws that need some little change to make it happen? No, we have to deal with it quickly, so that people get a living, for what they need to do everyday life. And as the rapporteur said, if we need to judge the apparatus we have, yes, the government has to be able to do something about it quickly, and we have to be able to make decisions throughout our system. Some have suggested that this was easy for us in the government parties. I can just say that it's not easy for us in the Right. This is rocking by the very basic principles that we protect. It's an extraordinary situation that has made us do it, and it's an answer to the extraordinary crisis we're facing. This way, we can get through it together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e681	There has been a big discussion after the government made proposals on what has become known as the Korona Act. The party experienced a great deal of commitment from many citizens around Norway who have been concerned that the government's proposal was too extensive and who were concerned that the Storting should give up too much power. We think it's great. It is good to see that so many fences about our democracy, and that even in a time of crisis, they are concerned that democratic principles should be followed as closely as possible. We are, too, and that's exactly why it wasn't relevant for our big group to stand behind the government's proposal. The Korona crisis creates major problems for the country, which requires amending laws and regulations, introducing new arrangements, granting money and making decisions in an incredibly short time – yes, in such a short time that in a normal situation it would be said that this is hardly proper. In today's situation, it would be irresponsible not to work that fast. We understand that in some cases the government will not be able to come to the Storting to clarify questions. That's why we're willing to give the government some more space for action, which allows them to deal with this situation faster and more effectively. The new law adopted today ensures that the government can meet the crisis effectively by adopting new regulations, while the Storting as legislator and granting authority remains the country's top state power. Giving the government extended powers in a crisis situation is a dramatic event. It weakens the function of the Storting as legislator. At the same time, control of the government is weakened. This is a combination that has historically proved to be a challenge for the rule of law. Therefore, it has been necessary for the Progress Party to limit the scope of the law. First of all, the Korona Act applies only to the listed laws. The law will apply for only one month, but in the unbridled situation we are now in, we must be prepared that there may be a need to extend the law. In order to prevent abuse of power, the Korona Act contains several protective mechanisms, such as time-limiting, no derogation from the Constitution, the Stortinget to be notified of all regulations, the right to apply to the courts, etc. If the government can follow normal legal procedures, it should. This shall ensure that the Korona Act applies only where absolutely necessary. The Progress Party believes that this ensures the necessary flexibility for the government, while ensuring the greatest possible respect for the Storting as legislator and granting authority in this crisis situation. For the Progress Party, it is essential that one third of the representatives of the Stortinge may repeal regulations adopted by the government in compliance with the law. It is sufficient that the minority notify this in writing to the Stortinget, and then the regulation will be stopped. There is no need for the Storting to gather to do this. Both the safeguard mechanisms and minority rights ensure good control and follow-up of the government’s management of the coronary crisis. For this becomes demanding. It makes a big impression on us to see the numbers that Nav is now publishing. Nearly 200,000 people have applied for daily allowance in the last week. Individuals and families have come into a cruel situation where they do not know if they have a job to go back to after the crisis. Anyway, you're going to be dependent on getting paid money from Nav, and everyone understands that Nav is facing an extreme challenge. Then it is right to empower the government to take action quickly to ensure that people can get money paid. You have to have money for food and the most necessary when the account is empty and your salary is not. The Progress Party will stress that an example in the proposition that the requirement for police certification may be waived for a number of key societal functions, such as: health services, police and child protection must be understood as providing a police record as soon as possible after employment, including in these cases. By setting requirements for a police record afterwards, consideration for rapid and effective employment is also balanced against the reasons that a police record is intended to be maintained. The Progress Party expects full compensation and compensation to be provided in cases where buildings, goods and services are claimed, so that private individuals do not suffer financial losses. The law contains provisions to ensure that any decision on requisition may be brought before the courts in order to review the legal basis and that the court must then also be able to determine the amount of compensation and/or compensation. Instead of being able to request buildings for the accommodation of asylum seekers, the Progress Party will propose that asylum seekers coming from safe areas be rejected at the border. We have also understood that when the government wants to delegate the Foreign Affairs Act, it is about preventing new groups from entering the country. Of course, the Progress Party agrees. It could be possible to challenge demarcations around several of the laws in which power is now delegated to the government. But we have to trust that the government is using this with caution and strictly related to dealing with the coronary situation. The Progress Party supports the law as it now exists, but will propose that, after the crisis is over, it be submitted to an evaluation of the Korona Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e709	I think many of us now feel that we are living in a rather unusual time. There's a lot of doubt and uncertainty and maybe also a little fear and anxiety in people, and there's a lot of work on those who have power and authority in society. I think that's pretty tough for a lot of people. One of the things I like about Norwegian democracy is that when a proposal is presented by the government, a public debate – that one gets clear voices, and that one gets opinions that are broken in different directions. It's something that's very healthy in Norwegian democracy. It's also, I think, healthy that we have a big deal where the parties can sit together and laboriously be able to work up to a text of the law that all the parties can stand behind. It's a good thing about Norwegian society. I think that maybe some of the most important legitimacy of the law we pass today is that it's going to be a unanimous big deal that decides, that we're all behind it. That was very sensible, and I would like to thank everyone who was involved in the work of the special committee. Everyone had to maybe give a little bit of a little bit, discuss up to something that might not be quite ideal, but we managed to figure out a common setting. Because we have a clear understanding that powers are needed to resolve urgent and crisis situations. It's sad if we don't manage to make sure that those who are now losing their jobs, or being permitted, don't get the benefits they should have from society, and that the measures we take can't be triggered because there are some rules and laws that stop using the schemes. It's not good; it's not lucky. We'd like to try to keep the wheels kind of normal, and then you could also have a normal business, but maybe on slightly different premises than what you normally have. We understand, on the part of the Centre Party, that powers are needed to resolve urgent and crisis-affected and unexpected situations that arise, and I believe that we have come up with a bill that takes care of it. That's not exactly how the government suggested it. The most important change we made was that we went from a general authority to derogate, supplement or make additions to the laws to say that this is related to a specific set of laws, a number of laws. It was maybe the most important change we made, and I think it was an important change because it hits it in a way that makes sense. But the fact that a specific law specifies, where the government then receives special powers, does not mean that anything in the specified laws is possible to change. What a changer, must be related to the purpose of this law, the Korona Act, and it must also be a matter of urgency, because the law says that if the purpose can be achieved through normal landfill treatment, this law should not be applied. So we've put in a completely different kind of frame of law, which I think is reasonable, and which gives the government the powers it needs, but which at the same time ensures the role and legal certainty of the Storting and the distribution of power between accumulation and government. For the centre party, it has been important that one has now tightened up in terms of time perspective. I think this is so unusual and so new to all of us that the fact that we start by looking at one month's working time for such a law is right. The centre party is open to see if it is necessary to extend it, but I think we should be able to decide after we have completed the first month. It is also important for the Central Party that one has received it – what to say – the minority security clause, in the form that a minority can ensure that a regulation is repealed. There is no place in Storting's business or other legal proceedings in Stortingen that we are doing something like this, but I believe that the minority is important in this particular law. It is the safety valve that must be provided when an overrides authority from stowage to government. And that means that one third of the representatives in this room can – with almost immediate effect – contribute to the repeal of a regulation that has been adopted. What has been said about judicial control is also important. Sense if all legal proceedings are actually subject to judicial review, I think it is important that it is specifically mentioned in this law. I think this has been a good job. We haven't had all the world's time, and we might have done things even better if we had time to do it. But I believe that, with the timescales we have had, we have done a good and thoughtful work, in which the parties have also balanced views against each other. And I think we're all concerned that this should be exactly what the government needs, namely an opportunity to solve difficult situations, but also no more than that, not a law that creates precedents for future rules or regulations. This is not the forerunner of a new proxy law or emergency law, and I want to underline it. This is a law that is closely related to the exact situation we're up here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e726	Our country is on a big test, and we're going through something that doesn't look like crises we've experienced before. As trustees of the population, it is our responsibility to equip society as best we can for challenges that can emerge in the next few weeks. Life and health challenges are largely addressed by the legislation we have, but with regard to the challenges of keeping the wheels in motion in society, democracy, business, organisational life and the public sector, things that we need to deal with can emerge. It may also apply to those who are now affected by the economic downturn. The social crisis measures we have adopted, for example: for workers, we must be sure that is possible to implement. If problems with these things arise in situations of urgency, we will be able to have both a practical and a democratic problem. That is the reason for adopting a law which, in some very specific cases, confers powers on the government and may be necessary. We made it clear yesterday that SV could not vote in favour of the government's proposal for the Korona Act. That was because we thought the proposal was deeply problematic on several points. First, it was particularly unclear to what extent the law would apply. It opened up or could be understood as allowing exceptions to become a widespread way of dealing with matters in this situation, nor did it define which laws it could apply to. Secondly, we believe that Storting's possibility of continuous control was too weak, since regulations, among other things. would come into force before the Stortinget was notified. Thirdly, the length of the law was six months too long, because it would take a very long time before the Storting could use the experience we are now going to make with the law, to take a new debate and make a possible decision about it. Fourth, we believed that minority rights were too weak, both because the Storting could lack time to mobilise the required one third minority before the regulations began to work, and because it was not clear how minority rights should work in a situation where, for example, the Stortinget. could not meet in plenary. Fifthly, transparency and scope for debate on action under this law were not adequately respected. What we have to deal with now is a radically changed and improved law. The big business – and I also want to emphasise that, because it is important – has confident cooperation across the party boundaries, and also through very constructive participation from the government parties, ensured that we have control. And I don't think it can be stressed enough how important it is for the confidence of the population that the Storting shows that power is here. Trust and legitimacy in all the people are gold worth in times like these. The legislative proposal now before us can be voted in favour. Firstly, it states that ordinary legal proceedings in Stortinget should also apply in cases involving covid-19, so that the Korona Act is applied only if, for example: is not a time for normal legal proceedings. This is the most important thing because it determines what should be the norm: even in times of crisis, the norm is treatment in the Grand Duchy. The law we adopt today is a safety valve. The scope of the powers granted has also been greatly reduced by applying the Korona Act only to the laws specifically mentioned in the legal text we are adopting today. Secondly, the possibility of continuous control by the Storting is clearly strengthened. The size shall be notified before regulations enter into force and will thus have the possibility to intervene, either jointly or by activating minority rights before a regulation begins to operate. Thirdly, controls have also been reinforced by a significant reduction in the duration. When the law only takes one month, any extensions will depend on new treatment in the Storting. Fourth, increased transparency is ensured by making regulations publicly known at the same time as they are notified to the Stortinget. Fifthly, minority rights are strengthened, both by the fact that there will be time to put them into service before a regulation enters into force, and not least by the fact that they have been made clear that they can be used without bringing together the Storing in plenary. Therefore, minority rights will be real and powerful in any situation we can imagine in the future. The Committee points to the end of the comment on the unanimous opening up of the law in Stortinget, and ‘will encourage the government to emphasise this in the choice of cases in which it applies’. The Committee also writes: «Proposals which may be politically disputed should be dealt with in the Grand Duchy in an ordinary manner.» I would like to underline that. So the members of the committee have left out to write long own comments on what kind of issues it might be, and instead referred both to this debate and to the good insight the government also has on the question of what might be politically controversial in Norway. However, for the sake of law on behalf of SV, I would just like to make a few comments on what kind of matters it might be about in the list of laws included in the bill we are going to deal with. We need to report that we are opposed to weakening the police certification requirements for working with children. We are committed to simplifying the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure of the prosecution authorities in cases of child abuse, rape or violence in close relations. We would point out that when the Foreign Affairs Act is included in this legislation, it is important to take into account also the disagreements that exist in the United Kingdom regarding immigration and refugee policy, and that it is not affected by this. Then, of course, we will also stress the importance of the Committee's emphasis on which the government has also stressed, namely that on employment issues, there are negotiations and consensus between the parties that are the way to go. That's what needs to be sought, and there are mechanisms to trigger what we need, even in this situation. Even when it is urgent, even in times of crisis, we must keep our heads cold. That's what the Storting has done. The size has ensured good control. Therefore, I would recommend that the SV's group vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e773	A great thank you to the case-speaker Gahr Støre from me and the Left for moving forward from wise work with a very difficult case under strong time pressure. Thanks also to the rest of the special committee, i.e. The President and the parliamentary leaders of all the parties in the Grand Duchy. I'm not surprised, but I'm still really impressed by how everyone adds party politics and uses all the wisdom, the secrets, and the resources of a disposer, for the common good of people, institutions and businesses out there in this difficult time. There is little doubt that the country is in as safe hands as possible, with such front figures on the Stortinget and in the individual parties. Thanks also to the Prime Minister and the Government and special Minister of Justice Monica Meland for the cooperation and the safe, clear, yet humble, listening approach she has taken to the joint crisis management responsibility we have, and the balances the Stortinget has measured in this matter. I would also like to thank the seven lawyers who, in a very short time, made immensely good and useful contributions to the committee. Several of the recordings have been taken into account both in the committee comments and in the legal text. It is not with a simple heart a social liberal party today agrees to delegate this kind of power from the Storting – the legislative assembly – to the government. However, the fact that the Left to the Left is similar to the other government parties and the opposition parties considers it necessary says something about the gravity of the situation. Through quick, yet reasonable, thorough management of the Storting through the weekend, good cooperation with the government, good input from independent lawyers and other experts, I think we have found a good balance between the need to act quickly in a highly abnormal situation on one side and the democratic basic principles on the other. When the government is now able to implement regulatory changes without going through the Storting, it's because the crisis requires rapid action when it involves vital things, but also when it applies to what is in this context trivialities, such as: the possibility for a limited liability company, law firm and others to wind up a statutory meeting in line with the new strict health requirements, e.g. the general meeting, without violating other laws. I think most people understand that it is wise for the government to find smooth ways to solve such things, so that the most possible of our time and resource use is to deal with far more important measures in the best possible way, without breaking the basic principle of power distribution – that it is Parliament, the Stortinget, who has the ultimate power, and that the Storting not only has power, but also the ability to exercise power in a crisis situation like this. The speakers before me have done well for the changes and the tightening-up and the need for the Stortinget now has to carry out the important role we have as Parliament. In conclusion, I should like to stress that we are not just in the midst of a national crisis, but a world-class crisis. At the moment, Europe is being tested the hardest. Countries like Denmark and Finland, with which we like to compare ourselves, have all the laws that we adopt today – laws that go even further than ever to give up power to the government. It's quite extraordinary, something similar has not been done since the Second World War. At these times we really get to test democracy, and I let myself from my stand as a parliamentary leader in a government party with very close contact with the government, as a member of the special committee together with the prime minister and the other parliamentary leaders, and from the way the finance committee and the rest of the Stortinget act these days, to state that so far the Norwegian democracy has passed the test. Perhaps the most important quality of our democracy is a fundamental, invaluable trust between the institutions and the parties – a trust that really comes to its right when it comes to it, a quality that we never have to take for granted, and that we all have to do what we can to punish and process.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e788	Norway is a trust society. We trust institutions, we trust organizations, and we trust each other. We're a society with high social capital. The civil society in Norway has a strong capacity to develop trusting relationships between citizens and thus strengthen the community’s capacity to solve common problems and challenges. Now we're being challenged. We're being challenged as communities and as individuals. Many are aware of uncertainties about what the future will bring. Because your trust society is a great value – yes, it is absolutely crucial. For as Prime Minister Erna Solberg said in his speech on Wednesday 18 March: ‘This has given our country a greater advantage than any weapon, and more valuable than any oil fund: that is, we trust each other.’ As politicians, we have a great responsibility to manage the trust that the voters have given us. The Norwegian people must be able to trust us. We have to take responsibility in trying times. Now it's hard times. In a society of trust, it is contrary to our instincts to distort the balance between the elected and the executive. That's why we're going into this landscape with great respect. The legislative proposal we are now going to vote on meets the need for the rapid implementation of measures in the necessary areas. It's a law with limited validity, even in time. It contains strong minority rights, and the popularly elected control is well-managed. Of course, when the government receives extended powers, it is an expression of what a crisis we are now facing. It's totally extraordinary. We must ensure that action can be taken quickly and efficiently. We can't wait to do what needs to be done. In such a situation, the government must have a flexibility that allows it to do so. I am pleased that today there is a total accumulation that is now behind this bill. It is a strength for democracy. I would like to thank all my colleagues on Stortinget for the agreement we have reached today, and to give a special tribute to the rapporteur, Jonas Gahr Støre, for the job he did to resolve the matter until unanimity. It shows that Stortinget is conscious of its responsibility to the Norwegian people, and at the same time shows a dynamic between big business and government that we can be proud of in Norway. The government must be able to act resolutely, and the departments must now be able to handle small and large matters quickly. Everyone understands that. Not least, it is necessary to ensure that all are granted their rights, that benefits are paid, and that no one suffers from the inertia of the decision-making system at the very top. The size is its constitutional responsibility consciously, and as the parliamentary leader of a government party, it is particularly important for me to stress that the Storting is the country's top state power, even in a crisis. In particular, in a crisis, it is essential that important principles in a rule of law remain in force. The people's confidence in government and greatness shall be managed wisely. The distribution of power between magnification and government is a fundamental democratic principle — it remains. Now we take responsibility for putting in place a law that will make it more effective and easier to implement the necessary measures for a limited period of time. It is a strength for the country and its inhabitants. The Committee has been concerned that the Korona Act can only be applied if it has been carefully assessed and concluded that it is necessary to use this law as the basis for a new regulation. This is also apparent from the comments. Thus, the law shall not apply if the purpose can be achieved by ordinary legal proceedings. Where there is time to carry out an ordinary legislative process, this option is to be chosen. What we're doing now gives us the opportunity to act quickly in the future. In this situation, the minority in the Grand Duchy has been granted extraordinary rights to prevent the regulation from being enacted by law. This point is absolutely crucial to ensure broad support in Stortinget, but I think it will also be a strength for the government in the work we are now going into. The way in which these powers have been applied, as we have rigged this, I believe is a strength for how the government should now apply the extraordinary powers granted. It is good that the Storting has gathered on this. This means that we can now work effectively with measures to combat the infection situation and get through this crisis. The government has taken hold, the Storting has taken hold. I will give tribute to all those who are now in a very difficult situation, to all those who make an extraordinary effort for society and for other people, to those who are sick, to those who make an effort for those who are sick, those who feel lonely, who know of loss or uncertainty, yes, perhaps fear. We're going to get through this. We agree on this. It'll get better – and it'll get better. And in the meantime, as politicians, we are going to make wise and swift decisions for the benefit of everyone. That's our problem right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e819	The President will draw attention to the fact that the setting is now available and can be picked up on either side of the storeroom if you want to read it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e824	Before I begin to brag, I shall be honest that this has been a fundamentally difficult matter for us. We're, of course, like the other parties, concerned that Norway should not stop. We will prevent people from standing up in an impossible situation and for example. are not paid the daily allowance. At the same time, we are sceptical about the urgency of such a democratic controversy, and we have always wanted to limit the powers of the government. Our primary position has been that the legislative proposal should be consulted one week before the possible adoption of the Stortinget. When we still vote in favour of the law with the rest of the Storting today, it's because what we've agreed on is something quite different from what the government first sketched out. This is not a general authorisation. We have been committed to putting in place a strong minority guarantee and strengthened judicial control. This is part of the agreed bill. I am pleased, on behalf of the Greens, to say that we are satisfied with what is being proposed today. I would like to praise all the parties for their good work and a constructive attitude across the party lines. We are very happy to have been included throughout the negotiations. There is also an important reason why we feel so secure about the result today. In the future, we will follow and, if necessary, contribute to triggering the one-third veto right contained in the legal text. In crises, it is often the most vulnerable and those who do not have a voice that are hit hardest. We will oppose proposals to set aside requirements that are intended to protect these. Among other things, we believe that the applicable requirements for police clearance for work with children and young people cannot be waived.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e836	The government's attempt to get through a law that would give them powers of their own is now parking out a total amount of money. It's Red very pleased. Norway is in a serious situation as a result of the outbreak of the coronary apathy. In this crisis, it is essential to safeguard the lives and health of the population and to provide rapid and effective measures for those affected by the crisis. I want to highlight the efforts of the many people who are now on the whole 24 hours a day, and not least employees and volunteers in the different first lines of society. In the current situation, it is also important that the Storting contributes in the best possible way to maintaining normal social functions and remedying the negative consequences of virus outbreaks on society and the population. For Red, it is essential that we also protect democracy and legal certainty, including the provisions of the Basic Law on the distribution of power. When the government asked the Stortinget to adopt a law of authority that would give the government almost unlimited power to take over the functions of Stortinget and also applicable laws and rights, it flashed in many warning lights with us and with several others. We have had considerable objections to the proposal. We clearly announced on Thursday that we could not support a law that provided the government with powers that were not limited to serious societal reasons, nor could the Stortinget actually pull the emergency brake. The proposal had virtually no restrictions on which laws could be set aside, or the seriousness of the situation, which would allow it to go beyond the Storting and derogate from applicable laws. It was also unclear whether the mechanism proposed by the government to grant the Storting a kind of veto right could be used, because there was doubt whether it was contrary to the Basic Law or not. To everything, the government would also have through the bill almost overnight and without any public debate. This was strongly criticised by many of the country’s leading lawyers, who stated that important democratic rules of play, the principle of the Fundamental Law’s distribution of power and legal certainty could be weakened if the proposal was adopted. That is why it is important, and that is why we are pleased that this is not happening in the Grand Duchy today. When Red on Thursday was first out of the parties on the Storting against the proposal, it was because we believe that democracy and legal certainty must also be protected in times of crisis – yes, especially in times of crisis – but also because we believe that democracy does not stand in the way of good solutions in a crisis situation. On the contrary, democracy is crucial in finding the right measures to cope with such a difficult situation in the best possible way. It's just to look at the situation a week ago, when we dealt with part 1 of the first crisis package for the economy. The proposal was then a crisis package that would primarily help business owners, but where the bill was passed on to employees. But when this was debated in public and on the Grand Council, we got it fixed, so that we could secure the income of the lay-offs, low pay, temporary workers, freelancers, the unemployed and others who do not have permanent employment. It was the participation of civil society, the trade union movement and other interested groups in the public debate, and not least the opposition to the Stortinget, which led to necessary and good changes in the crisis package. However, with the proposed law on powers, it would in many cases be impossible to have a similar debate. Then the government could have received proposals in any area of society without the possibility of a real change of words in the public domain and that the Stortinget could have actually stopped the proposals. Now that Stortinget has a new proposal on the table, which is adopted unanimously today, I would also like to thank all the other parties for their good cooperation. It has led to a good and solid outcome, a bill that allows the Storting and the government to deal effectively with the crisis as a result of the coronary apathy, and at the same time meets the objections raised by jus experts and other in recent days. Now we have a clearly defined law that is only to be used where it is absolutely necessary, and that only lasts for one month. For us as for other parties, it was essential that the proposal ensures judicial control, and that the minority has a right to stop regulations that, in our view, had to go over the line, stop them before they are implemented. This means, in sum, that the principle of the fundamental law of power is not undermined, and that we protect democracy, the rights of the population and legal certainty. It's crucial, even in the time we're in now. We would like to thank all those who have been involved in the debate, not least many of the leading lawyers who called out clear warnings on this matter. Their efforts were essential in order to bring up a public debate leading to the proposal that we have on the table today, adopted today by the Stortinget. But although there was a certain debate, Red believes that there should have been room for more time to deal with the matter. However, when it did not, we will stand behind the proposal, given the changes that are now in place, and which get unanimous agreement from the Stortinget. Finally, I would like to say that it is essential to protect democracy and legal certainty, and that it is in times like this that it is really put to the test. There is a need for action in the situation we are now in, but that is what we ensure most in common, through democracy. I believe that the Stortinget shows that we get to, unanimously and gathered here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e857	In mid-December, the coronary virus was first identified in China. Since then, we have almost daily encountered challenges that we didn't know about just a few days before. We didn't know that tens of thousands of people would suddenly be permitted, that we would be told to keep at least two meters apart and avoid crowds, something like that. makes it difficult to hold general meetings both in housing law and in company law, and that we are now being challenged about how we conduct legal proceedings in our courts – for the same reason. Because we are constantly facing new problems requiring rapid legislative changes, the government has asked for extended powers to deal with this totally extraordinary situation. This time-limited law will enable us to quickly solve concrete problems for individuals and businesses. Today, for example. so that we have connected Nav's processing system and payment system to the law, so that we are sure that those who are entitled to benefits and money will receive their payments. In a normal situation, there's a very reasonable thing to do. But now we're in a situation where thousands of people simultaneously seek social benefits from Nav, and it creates great challenges. As the law is designed today, it will not be possible to make payments to, for example: self-employed, freelancers and apprentices under the new decisions taken. That means that we have to implement the necessary legislative changes, and it normally takes time. So, of course, where it's proper, we have to use the normal way to pass laws, but where we have to move quickly, we have the right to do so in this law. Just as no one predicted the coronary virus, we do not now know what the consequences of this crisis will be. The only thing we know is that it has got and will still have consequences, and there are consequences that make us have to make big changes quickly. So to make sure that we can now make sure that the corona virus doesn't become an even greater burden on both people and businesses than it already is today, we've been working together with all the parties in the Storting to try to find a common solution. I have experienced a very good cooperation, and I would particularly like to thank the case rapporteur for a good, important and comprehensive work during a very hectic period. There have been good, important and necessary debates on duration, control mechanisms and scope. It's been good and – I'm going to admit it – demanding processes, but I think we've come up with a very good solution, for the best of our people. The bill was met with both scepticism and concern. I understand. These are healthy and democratic reflections. But now we're in a crisis, and none of us know what the outcome is. That is why this is an absolutely necessary solution. It's just that special circumstances require special measures. Let me also stress what more people have been about: the law is of course no blank authority for the government. It is a mandate from the Stortinget to quickly initiate sound and necessary measures for a limited period of time. Of course, the size still has the last and final word. A third of the Storting may stop any decision the government makes. The law will only apply for one month. Of course, the law cannot break either the Constitution or human rights. The regulations must be necessary and measures must not be disproportionate. We're very lucky. We live in a country where we trust each other. We have trust between people, we have confidence in the authorities, and we have confidence between big business and government. We're not going to take that trust for granted, we're going to use it with great care. With that, I would like to thank the parties at Stortinget for a very good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e876	I want to start by thanking the Stortinget for the willingness to deal with this matter and many other matters very quickly, and for the good cooperation both before and after the matter was presented to the Stortinget, for this is a very special law and a very special situation we are up in. The fact that the case is being debated on a Saturday shows that the Stortinge can deal with matters quickly when needed. Then the quick question is asked: why do we think that there is a need for this temporary, completely extraordinary law? On Wednesday evening, I said that no one in my generation has experienced that our country has as great challenges as the one we are together in now. But I also said we're going back to the normal, nice everyday life. The goal of tackling the challenges we are facing as well now is to do it so well and quickly that everyday life can come back faster, and that more people can return to a normal job and a well-functioning economy. So that's what's behind the proposal we've been making. I think maybe Professor Benedicte Moltumyr Højberg described it quite well yesterday: this is not an Elverum authorization. This is not madness or an attack on the state of law. This is not an attack on the Constitution or human rights. It is a constructive attempt to ensure that not too many are unemployed for the harvest, that banks should not go overboard, and that houses should not be sold under forced auction at spot prices. It's getting our society back to the usual, these rules and the need for speed really applies. All areas of society are affected by this crisis. In this way, this is different from many other difficult situations we've been in in peacetime. It's not a restricted area. It's actually the whole community that's being reached. Many of us are going to experience at this time that they need to take a decision on completely new questions. It is not that we lack the powers of intervention in Norway. They exist - we use them now. The Smittov gives us extensive powers to restrict the freedom of each nordic person – freedom of movement in these days – and the way they work. Our emergency laws also give us the opportunity to regulate many things in business to make sure that fundamental things work. But when we sit and work on these questions, we experience in many cases that our law has not taken into account that this law will not work in a crisis situation, because there is no exception for small and large things. A number of measures have already been put in place to address the negative consequences of what is happening, but we see the need to make adjustments to the legislation that requires a legal basis, because our legislation has not taken into account such a special situation as this. Storting works quickly and conscientiously in this situation, but it will always take some time and formalities to get a law or an exception from the law. This is an exceptional situation where we need to act quickly, including: because the interventional measures like quarantine, the fact that we get many who are ill, also makes the public sector work worse and therefore cannot follow all the procedural rules that we would do in a normal situation – simply because there are not enough people. Child protection institutions shall have staff, but child-restraint workers may also be quarantined, sick, in intensive care and thus unable to be there to help the weakest and most vulnerable. That's why we have to have rules that allow us to actually fill in with employees in such a situation. Of course, all the regulations laid down in the laws now listed in the proposal submitted should be notified to the Stortinget. The award may take decisions which in whole or in part repeal the regulations. We're concerned that, of course, we should have the most openness around everything. We're going to have openness around this. Regulations don't work if people don't know them. That's why it's just good. But I think that the summary, when we're done with this, will show that this was about everyday questions and at least about crisis issues, but about making everyday life work. When the government can adopt matters on an ongoing basis, we can get completely important and absolutely necessary decisions taken faster so that things can work better. For example, we have to. ensure that those entitled to public benefits actually receive it. So here we meet challenges in terms of different deadlines. There may be time-limits for applying for a benefit for which the time-limit has expired for various reasons, such as: The deadline for returning to Norway without losing children’s rights — the Stortinget has decided that if you are away more than three months from this country, you will lose your child’s rights. However, it may not be possible to get home today simply because we have a situation where it is not possible to get back to Norway because of the corona situation. Nav may have problems dealing with the matter. We must then have the necessary basis, including legal and regulatory, to move workers to Nav for a limited period of time, for example. So this is a law that makes the government better able to meet all the small and big challenges that are coming, that none of us have thought about until we're in the situation and see that we don't have a place of praise for this. Now we have cooperated with Stortinget and listed a number of laws. I cannot stand here and say that it is exhaustive, but then we come back to Stortinget with changes in other laws, even if it proves necessary. I'm glad we've had a good cooperation, that we can see that we have to work hard to get things in place, and that we also have to be able to expand this in time if it turns out that we haven't done all the necessary legislative changes. I want to stop thanking the parties at Stortinget for both good and willing dialogue on these questions. As a government, we have respect for the powers we are now given. We're going to use the law with responsibility, wisdom and transparency, but we're going to use it with one perspective: when time gets a little bit better, we should be able to look back and say that it wasn't for time the job, the company or the person's economy went on, because we couldn't work fast enough from the public side.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e901	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e906	Thanks both to the Prime Minister and members of the government for the cooperation we have had this week. I want to elaborate on two themes. The first is that the normal legislative process is normal, and what the Storting has written unanimously in this setting is that this is a safeguard clause to be able to take decisions quickly. The measures to get the economy going, get people back to work, get back on track, which we've been dealing with this week, assume we're taking matters in the hall and being treated in the usual way. I think it's important to emphasize it, because it also makes it better in the communication to people, that what we're talking about here, really is a set of individual maybe small things, but they're small things in a big puzzle that makes the wheels go around. I think it's important to counteract the impression that through such a law you can do great things that intervene. It's important to hear the Prime Minister elaborate on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e913	Where we've seen the need, it's in the small things, in the areas for which we don't have any exceptions, where we don't have warrants today. With regard to the big things, it's natural for us to go to the Storting, of course, with what's changed, what's not infectious and emergency issues that we already have powers to do. It's important, as I stressed, that we have many of the most intrusive powers. It is part of a crisis situation, within the various laws on preparedness and on infectious diseases. But these are all the little things that make things not work, that an organisation is no longer legal because within the time of the Brønn Island Health Registers you have not delivered the papers in time. It is to ensure that an enterprise can hold a general meeting. It is to ensure that we have the right to pay money where the Storting has shown a willingness to pay money. I think we fully agree that in the major cases we should go to Stortinget. Then we can also go with the small things to the Storing to get them punished gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e918	My second question: it is written in the comments of the Committee that the social partners are entrusted with a great deal of responsibility in our society. We boast of the parties, of the tripartite cooperation and how it solves small and big questions. I want to say that it is important – and I hope the Prime Minister underlines it in his meetings with the parties – that this law does not lift the normal responsibility of the parties to take responsibility. There's a kind of conversation where someone could say that now we're waiting for this law to come, and then we don't have to find the consensus that normally exists, because then there's just an urgent decision. I don't mean to. Local solutions shall be found by the parties. The parties shall find solutions centrally. We should support this, and the Prime Minister, who leads part three of the tripartite cooperation at national level, believes that I should stress to the parties that it is the rules of the game. Then there should also be the situation locally. Tripartite cooperation is a unique resource for Norway in the current crisis period, and it may be tested in the coming period. We should then recognise an organised working life from all parts of the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e923	I fully agree that we need to make sure that working life is primarily trying to solve the challenges itself, without getting laws and regulations. But in some places the law is a constraint. There are legal rules and regulations in the Working Environment Act today that cannot be negotiated. Average overtime calculation e.g. has an outer limit. It has limits to where you can cooperate and make exceptions, and then it has an outer limit. In some places today, it may be that the external boundary has to be exceeded simply because if not the problems become too big. Then you still have to have a law and a regulation change to get it done. At the same time, our starting point is to build on the cooperation of the parties in this regard. I have also underlined that, and after I had raised this question with the party leaders on Sunday, we had a meeting with the business community and representatives of the labour market, where we were also informed that we thought this was a general rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e928	With the frame that is now in place, I'm absolutely sure the government is going to practise this law in a tidy way. But I wanted to take the word because in the previous line exchange it could sound like the distinction here is really between big and small things. What is clear in the setting is that the starting point is treatment in Stortinget, both for large and small cases, but it is limited to the possibility of using this law if the timing or the capacity of Stortinge, for example, so warrants it. However, if it is sound and possible, small matters still need to be left for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e933	It would be that all the regulations could be dealt with by Stortinget. Then we'll see if it's very short time. Sometimes, in order to implement a large, small or medium-sized case, it would be a good idea to use our regulatory ability to do so at the same time as we go to the Stortinget and try to regulate it in a law, but that the law can start to work at an earlier time because we have made an exception regulation already. This could apply in, for example: pay-out cases. I am absolutely sure that we will have a good cooperation with Stortinget also on what things you think should come as a law of your own, without having to stop the regulation, but by saying that here you want to have it as a law of your own. I'm completely open to do that in the future. Some things are completely short-lived. Other things can last a little bit longer. I am pleased that the representative Lysbakken believes that we will manage this with good understanding. I believe that we would do no matter what kind of legislation it would have been. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e942	This case has contributed to some dilemmas and difficult balances in many of us, I think. I think some of the important thing about this matter is that both magnification and government can act in such a way that we strengthen our trust between us. I hope that having a unanimous decision today can contribute to that. I would like to refer to one thing in the remarks that we are concerned about, and that I would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to. There are going to be many situations dealing with the relationship between central and local and regional authorities. We may not know what kind of things are going to come up yet, but the fact that one has great respect between local and regional authorities and the state, and that one also has good cooperation with the KS, which is the community sector organisation, I would like to stress as one of the important points, as the rest of the committee has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e950	I fully agree that we should have respect for local self-government, and we should work within that framework, but we have been through a period when very many locally have asked for national rules for clarity and clarity. This occurred at the latest in connection with the cabin ban issue. It was a very strong wish from district municipalities with many cabins to get a national ban. They could have imposed a local ban and, for the sake of infection, they could have made some restrictions, but they wanted this to be national in order to escape what they experienced as an increased tension between city cabin people and district municipalities. In some areas we have to say that we have to be one country, and I am concerned whose jobs now go doll because extra barriers have been created in some regions of Norway. Today we have a situation in Northern Ireland where both the LO, the NHO, the County Council and the County Council go out and warn against some of the local regulations that have been made, because there are companies that do not get professionals and may have to stop their business. Then there's also a question of when to take a national responsibility, and then we can't always just respect municipal responsibility. We have to take into account that with all the money we put on the table now, there must be no local restrictions that make companies doll.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e957	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e964	Today, we see again a boom that turns out from its best in a crisis situation. It is no big secret that for the representatives of the Progress Party and very many other representatives in this Chamber, the proposition presented by the government was very problematic. It's about guarantees of legal certainty, it's about the principle of power distribution, and it's about our constitution. Therefore, it is very good that one has managed to reach an agreement on a legal text that is very different – yes, I would say I agree with that SV describes as a law that is radically different from the one we were given by the government. It's about limitation in working time, it's about limitation in scope, and it's about minority rights. In general, this is no longer a general law on powers; on the contrary, it is a law that simplifies the procedure between corruption and government. That's good, and it's important in times of crisis like this that we have to adhere to our fundamental principles that lie in our constitution: power distribution between greatness and government. I am very pleased that these clear limitations also establish that there is no way to use the law in a way that is about implementing one – perhaps the type of controversial policy that is not about direct devices to the coronary crisis. One example of this is immigration legislation. This law cannot in any way be used to liberalise Norwegian immigration policy. I think that's important, because there's a lot of people that get insecure when you have this kind of discussion. It's about trust in the Stortinget, and it's about trust in the government. However, if it turns out that you are not using this law in a way that is according to Storting's expectations, we have every opportunity to stop it. I note that it is still such that power remains in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e975	As quickly as possible, we in this Chamber actually begin to talk about the rule of law, almost 206 years after we got our constitution, the rule of law that is enshrined in the division of labour between the Great Britain – us elected by the populace, women and men elected by the people to give new laws, to change the laws – and the government to execute, and the courts that are to be judgmental and independent. The need for and pressure to extend the powers of a government comes in pressing situations, in politically very demanding and difficult situations, where values and precisely the legal order are tested. The time aspect can be used as an argument and may also be fully relevant. The war has its own rules, but in 1945, after the war, we had settled the case, where the powers were changed and changed. We had political leaders in 2001 – 9/11 – who tried to change their mandates and who did not agree to them – it was rejected. We see countries in Europe where the distinction between parliaments, governments and courts is fooled, and the courts are no longer independent, but are tried by another type of majority, not by the people and the elected people necessarily, but by those in government. So what is the reason for a law of attorney? The motive the government has had to present today is not to weaken democracy. It is to exercise national leadership asking to be allowed to act quickly to serve the people, business, businesses and jobs. But it's also national leadership because we're the ones elected by the people -- that's where the power lies -- and we're doing what's our constitutional task related to the rule of law. I am very pleased – also because I have the responsibility and the tasks I have in the Council of Europe, with 47 countries that do not always have the same good with these rule of law principles – that we have incorporated these principles in terms of time, minority rights and the specific legislative areas that can be changed. The government can come back to the Storting and ask for the renewal of these, but we elected people – here – who have that responsibility and that power, and have taken it and shown it today according to what was our constitutional right and design in 1814.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e986	Difficult time requires difficult decisions. I believe that, on behalf of the whole Committee on Justice, I can thank everyone in the special committee who has done this demanding work on the matter under consideration. I totally agree with the case-speaker, Jonas Gahr Støre, that the principle of the rule of law is very important in a time of crisis, and I notice that almost everyone has been involved in it today. I would like to commend the Committee and the Advocate-General for having received a mini-vote. I think that was very, very important. I think it is important to note that perhaps more people have now said: that proposals that there may be major political disagreement around must be presented to the Stortinge in the usual way. There's a lot of people talking about police reports. I, as the leader of the Judicial Committee, also served as the Minister of Justice during the past week. We are now noticing progress from all over the country, where there is a need for more health services, child protection, etc., and many are concerned about this with police reports. What I would like to ask the Minister of Justice to look at and be busy about is to see if one can get a quick track for the priority professional groups and strengthen the capacity, so that one can avoid doing what is on the table to ignore the requirement of good conduct. Here we talk about the legal certainty of children, which I think all parties are very concerned about. The fact that we treat something so fast, we all might know a little bit in our stomach. But this requires something very special of us – at the time we are in. I am also very pleased that we are getting § 6 in place, which the committee is now proposing, with judicial review. It's very important, as well as a clear take on minority rights. I would like to thank you for the work of the special committee, and I would like to thank all the parties who have contributed to this difficult but important outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e999	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e1010	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map. The President will state the following: All the settings have been published on the saddle, and in addition they are available in paper version in the hall. With regard to voting, the President will also, at this point in time, propose that the voting procedure be governed by Paragraph 60(a) of the Rules of Procedure: ‘The President invites representatives who are in favour or opposed to a proposal to stand up. The President may also hold a counter-vote.’.» In this way, representatives do not have to use the voting buttons and therefore do not have to sit in their fixed positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e1031	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Solvency Skagvoll Foss on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Party the proposals No 5 and 6, by Hulda Holtvedt on behalf of the Green and Red Party proposal No 7, by Hulda Holtvedt on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA the proposals No 8-11, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9-11, from Red. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that banks reduce interest rates on loans to individuals and businesses as soon as possible and in the same order as the Banks of Norway carried out and, where appropriate, any possible exceptional reductions in the interest rate.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to prohibit the distribution of dividends and bonuses to senior executives for companies receiving loans under the aviation guarantee scheme.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to guarantee the State the right to a proportionate share of bank profits from loans paid under the State guarantee scheme.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e1073	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to open up the possibility for companies to receive grants for intra-corporate training also for employees who are fully permitted.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e1090	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with a business package in the next proposition promoted by the Stortinget and that the government deliberately adapts the instrument under Innovation Norway, Siva and Investinor to the current situation.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e1107	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 by the Green and Red Environmental Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to adjust the criteria for access to the State guarantee scheme for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises in a way that ensures adequate access for enterprises with less than 50 employees’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e1123	There is a vote on proposal No. 5. from the Green and Red Environmental Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to require companies that provide State loan guarantees or government debt financing not to pay dividends until further notice.» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e1140	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that loans granted through the sovereign bond fund do not contribute to new investments in fossil energy or infrastructure.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asking the government to ensure that loans granted through the State bond fund contribute to the green shift and thereby make both our economy and society less petroleum-dependent and more rusty for the future.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that loans guaranteed by the government do not contribute to new investments in fossil energy or infrastructure.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government asks the government to ensure that loans guaranteed by the government contribute to the green shift and thereby make our economy and society less petroleum dependent and more rusty for the future.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e1627	It's voted over A I, cap. 900, entry 23 and entry 50 and II. The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e1641	The remainder of A and B add up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e1658	During the debate, Mr Foss presented a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left, the Green and Red Environmental Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that banks guaranteed by the State do not pay dividends until the capital buffer has been raised again.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e1878	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e1888	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e2116	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e2126	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-21.ana.ud144e2173	Thus, today's map has been processed. The President will draw attention to the fact that the provisional meeting programme until Easter is: Tuesday 24 March, Tuesday 31 March and Friday 3 April, subject to reservations. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
