ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e55	The short time when the representatives meet in the Chamber to set up the meeting and by voting recommends that the President sit in his own seats. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that, if necessary, there will be a break in the meeting after dealing with cases No. 1 to 7. In that case, the meeting will be set at 5 p.m. 12 for the examination of case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e73	A new alternate shall be elected to the Electoral Committee after Guri Melby, who has become a member of the Government. The President is asking for proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e80	I'm proposing Solveig Schytz.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e85	Mr Schytz has been proposed as a new alternate to the electoral committee. Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Schytz is considered unanimously elected as a new alternate member of the electoral committee. Case No. 2 and 3 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e115	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e122	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation in dealing with this proposition. That everyone gets the healthcare they need, when they need it, is important both for our safety and for our quality of life. In order to ensure good health care, we depend on safe and secure medical devices, and it may be rare that we've been more aware of it than we are right now. The case concerns proposals for legislation on medical devices to implement two EU regulations on medical devices and in vitro diagnostic devices in Norwegian law. This legislation strengthens patient safety by promoting the safe and safe use of medical devices. We also provide for a coherent regulatory framework in the EEA area, which will also contribute to promoting the innovation of medical devices and ensure that it is safe when placed on the market. The State Medicines Agency will continue to be the technical and supervisory authority for medical devices. It is a majority of the Committee which supports the proposal for the law and implementation of the regulations in Norwegian law. The working party, the centre party and SV have made their own suggestions in the setting, which I expect they will take up and argue for on their own. I would like to comment briefly on some of the things that have been mentioned in the setting. Several have raised the question of whether there will be uncertainties related to the self-production of equipment in hospitals. To that I would say that we already have regulation of the self-production of equipment in Norway. The implementation of these regulations in Norwegian law will not entail any specific changes to the national regulations we already have, and Norwegian health institutions will be able to meet the requirements. And then I'd just like to make a brief comment on what's going on regulating genetic self-tests. It is quite correct – as a unanimous committee writes – that genetic self-testing is also covered by this Regulation, but what this regulation regulates is when something can be placed on the market, what is needed for a test to be approved. However, whether the tests are to be used or not will, as the Committee also points out, be regulated by the Biotechnology Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e137	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank Minister of Health Bent Höie for the work he has done so far in relation to the coronary epidemic – it is today the first time we are back in the Chamber to discuss health matters – and wish you every success in the work ahead. I'm not going to keep any long posts related to these two EEA issues, but I want to address two things in particular. One is that the representative Holm Lønneth was within now finally linked to genetic self-tests. As it emerges from the suspension, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV will propose a ban on genetic self-testing of children in the context of the Biotechnology Act. Instead of taking a line, I thought that I could rather encourage the Minister of Health to say something about it in his post and confirm that we actually have the opportunity we want to regulate it in the Biotechnology Act, as it has been problematized by some of the hearing bodies. So it's nice if you can get an assessment of it. In addition, over the last few days we have been informed that the European Union will postpone the working time of the regulation we are examining until 2022, and I would like to hear what consequences it might have, from the point of view of the Minister of Health. Finally, I would like to address the proposal on which the Labour Party is involved in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e148	The representative, Tuva Moflag, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e153	The proposal proposes a new law on medical devices to implement the EU regulation on medical devices and the EU regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices in Norwegian law. The centre party supports many of the specific regulatory changes proposed in the Regulations. In medical devices that are used for own use in healthcare institutions, one is essentially exempt from the requirements of the regulations. This typically applies to diagnostic tests produced in healthcare services for use in own patients, so-called ‘in-house’ tests. The problem is that the exemption is explicitly defined and that several limitations are open to interpretation. The exemption shall, for example: not applicable to industrial scale production. But how does one define it? The exemption shall only apply if the equipment is designed to be used by the same legal unit, but what if the production and use goes across healthcare providers? The exemption shall not apply if the corresponding equipment can be covered by the market. But what does one mean by “corresponding equipment”? The Public Health Institute believes that in the worst case, such regulation could reduce the detection of infectious diseases that FHI is responsible for monitoring. Other hearing authorities believe that a lack of interpretation of the exemption in the utmost consequence can mean that public health institutions need to use large resources to purchase diagnostic tests on the market rather than to produce better quality themselves. It is now proposed that the European Commission should be able to define unilaterally the limits of the exemption once the Regulations have been incorporated. For the Central Party, it is also a problem that genetic self-tests are covered by the Regulations. We want to propose, in the treatment of biotechnology laws, a ban on parents from stealing genetic self-tests on behalf of their children. In addition, we want the market for genetic self-tests to be distributed in order to regulate it. Both the Medical Association and the Biotechnology Council have pointed out that there are many unresolved questions about what is the national space for action to regulate genetic self-tests. Based on this, the centre party does not support the inclusion of the regulations, nor does it promise that much of the legislation makes sense. We suggest, together with SV, that the government return to Stortinget with a new proposition where the laws and inclusion will not limit the possibility for the public health service to use own medical devices or limit the national space for action to regulate genetic self-tests. We know that there is some information that the case has now been postponed in the EU. That's enough of an argument because we don't have to adopt this law or introduce the regulations today. Nor will we vote subsidiaryly for these matters. I take up the proposal of the Central Party, together with the Socialist Left, in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e168	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e173	It's good to be back in Stortinget. In the law on consent on medical devices, the Government proposes that the two new regulations on medical devices should apply in Norway. The Regulations replace the current three directives on medical devices and were adopted in the EU in 2017. It is proposed to include the new legislation in the EEA Agreement and to do so under Norwegian law. The product legislation for medical devices is fully harmonised within the EEA territory. Existing legislation has been important to ensure the free flow of safe and secure products in Europe. However, there has been technological and scientific progress with regard to medical devices. Today’s legislation has been criticised for not being adapted to this development. The purpose of the new legislation on medical devices is to strengthen patient safety, facilitate innovation and ensure a coherent regulatory framework across the EEA area. The new Regulations continue the current legislation but make stricter and clearer requirements for all actors within almost all parts of the legislation. Medical equipment covers almost 10000 product types over a wide range. It can be anything from plastics, wheelchairs, glasses, laboratory tests and self-testing to vital equipment such as: pacemakers. It may also be high-tech products that use nanotechnologies or contain medicinal products, tissues, cells or blood. In the context of the outbreak of the corona virus, we have all experienced the importance of access to medical devices for the proper management of the pandemic by health services. The State Medicines Agency is the professional and supervisory authority for medical devices in Norway. For the State Medicines Agency, the Regulations will entail increased tasks. The scope of the current legislation will be extended and the Agency will have considerably more work related to the follow-up of market actors, technical control bodies, clinical evaluation and clinical trials, market surveillance, traceability and, in addition, cooperation and governance both nationally and internationally. For manufacturers, responsible representatives, distributors, marketers and technical control bodies, the new Regulations will lead to increased requirements for their activities. The implementation of the Norwegian legislation requires a new law on medical devices. A new regulation on medical devices and a regulation on the handling of medical devices will also be laid down. To the questions raised by the representative Moflag, I would say that although the technical requirements and the type of things related to genetic self-tests will be covered by this, the question of the use of genetic self-tests will be a question of the Biotechnology Act, which the Stortinget now has to deal with. There, of course, the Stortinget has the opportunity to establish a national regulatory framework for the use of such tests. It is also true that the EU is likely to postpone the implementation of this Regulation, but we believe that it is right to implement these legislative changes in Norway now, because this is a regulation that is sensible and that will also contribute to better quality in an important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e198	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e203	I have a question about the last time the Council of State addressed, namely that the European Commission has postponed the use of this Regulation to give priority to the fight against the coronavirus. They say that both countries, health institutions and economic operators now need to make it possible to prioritize the fight against the coronary virus pandemic, and that the medical industry must now use all its energy to fight a pandemic, and that one needs to prioritize it. Then I thought it was a little special that Norway entered and incorporated this into Norwegian law now and passed laws, when all other countries see the need to postpone this matter. Now it probably won't get followed... now I've said a little bit, and the time is up, I see. It's been so long since I've been here...
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e208	The representative Toppe is allowed to ask the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e214	My question is whether the Council of States can do well to consider this matter with the postponement of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e219	As I also said in my post: This is an increased requirement that will require more work, for example. in the Swedish Medical Products Agency and in others, so we also need to make an assessment in Norway when implementing the law and regulations. However, we believe – as the representative was also involved in his main post – that there is a lot of sense and good here, and the fact that the Stortinget completes this process means that the job is done. Then we have to assess implementation based on, among other things, the same considerations as the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e224	Can I then ask the Council of State what time he sees that the laws are being implemented, when one knows that it will at least take one to two years before it will be in force in the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e229	We have not made a final assessment of this, but the issues raised by the representative will also be part of that assessment. It is as I said in my post: This legislation will require extra work, including: from the State Medicines Agency, and we must also look into their situation now, related to dealing with the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e234	I have a line for the other case, which applies to our proposal for a pacemaker register. There is nothing in the regulation that prevents such a register, but based on what the government writes in the proposition and in the bill, I perceive that one does not intend to establish such a register. This has been a great debate, among other things. through the articles of the Evening Post in 2018 and 2019. So I want to ask the Council of State: will he not initiate such a pacemaker register and a register for implantable heart starters?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e239	Today, we have national quality records for both cardiologists and pacemakers. This is also covered by the Health Register Act. We have not decided whether we should also set up a national treatment register for the same purpose, but there are no obstacles in the Patient Journal Act that this can be established across healthcare companies in the health region. In any case, the law on medical devices will not be the right law to regulate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e244	This Regulation and its amendment bring about positive changes and improve the quality of medical devices. There will now be changes in the labelling, information and marketing content of claims and a new traceability system to improve the medical device failure notification system from the manufacturer. The center party says that most of this makes sense, but still warns that they will vote against it. What is the Minister of Health's assessment of the consequences for Norway if the Central Party had obtained a majority to vote against all of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e251	The replicator argues that this is a change in the law that we believe makes sense, even regardless of whether this is something that is regulated in common in the EU, precisely because it will ensure better quality and will have better patient safety as a consequence. It is also an advantage that it is happening at European level, because in this area we are totally dependent on having common rules in Europe, because we are totally dependent on close cooperation to access this type of equipment. Norway has experienced painfully in this situation how important it is that we are part of EU cooperation in this area, as the European Commission introduced an export ban for a short period of time to all non-EU countries. Fortunately, there was an error that they quickly fixed. But if we were not part of the EEA Agreement, it would have had quite dramatic consequences for us in the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e258	So the chord change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e265	I must speak the word after the last line exchange, because when the Progress Party takes a line for the Central Party of the Council, one must be correct. We have said and made it clear that there is a great deal in these regulations that are very important and to which we are positive. We do not vote against it either. We're asking that one come back with a new proposal where the two things we've done are clarified, as we think are unclear, and as many hearing aids have pointed out. There is a difference between that and that of being contrary to the whole Regulation, as it was produced in the exchange of lines. When we know that we have two years, it's actually also time to come back with a new proposal where this is clearly defined and clarified from Norway's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e270	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e288	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e301	I suppose I'm to blame for the fact that it's been a month's break from Storting's ordinary treatment. We have made some changes to the Advancement Party, so it was really Kjell-Børge Freiberg who was going to present the matter for us, but when I first had to raise it this way, I am going to be very careful to present the matter, and then the Advancement Party will come back to this in our regular post.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e306	This is the matter we were going to discuss on the day everything was postponed. We are going to discuss a service that is in an even greater pressure than it did when the committee deals with this matter. It feels a little bit like discussing the matter in a vacuum, but I'm essentially going to try to relate to the assumptions that were underlying when the committee dealt with the matter before the coronary crisis hit us. Several proposals have been made, questions have been asked, and there has been an inter-pelling debate in Stortinget following the revelations of Norwegian elderly care in the evening post before Christmas 2019. There are issues under consideration in the Health Committee that remain unclear but concern the same theme. In particular, I would like to refer to the Workers' Party's proposal, Document 8:51 S for 2019-2020, on a escalation plan for elderly care staff and measures to prevent dementia. In this proposal for a representative, part of the solutions of the Workers' Party, such as increased staffing, activity offers for the elderly, grants to day activities places for people with dementia, etc. The fact that the Labour Party has promoted its own and other proposals is also some of the reasons why we do not support all the proposals that are on the matter we are dealing with today. The Workers' Party shares the concerns of the proposers for Norwegian care for the elderly, especially in the light of the Aftenposten series of articles. The review showed a wide range of deviations, many of which were related to violence and assault. When such gross deviations occur, there is a great deal of pressure on the services and employees. We in the Workers' Party believe that there is a need for a lift for capacity, quality and competence in Norwegian care for the elderly. We believe that it is primarily a strengthened local economy and the organisation of more and more jobs that are essential to help mitigate the pressure experienced in the care of the elderly today. Together with a commitment to proper service competence, these measures can help to increase quality and patient safety in the care of the elderly, which is the theme of the next case. The Labour Party believes that a trust reform and less detailed management of services in both municipalities and specialist health services is the way to go in the next decades. While it may be very tempting to make proposals at Stortingen in order to ensure quality in the services sector, it is nevertheless the opposite of a trust reform. First of all, we must ensure that the services have sufficient room for action. We need to ensure a safe and good municipal economy. We have to work for several entire positions. We need solutions to reduce the shortage of health professionals and support staff. If we provide sufficient room for action, we can be confident that local professionals, local trustees and local politicians will also take care of quality and patient safety in the care of the elderly. With that, I take up the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e321	The representative Tuva Moflag then addressed the Labour Party's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e326	When a study by the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress indicates that about 65,000 people over the age of 65 are exposed to violence in Norway, there is every reason to investigate more closely what is happening and find the measures necessary to reduce this number significantly. We can't accept this. One of the measures taken is from the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress. They have developed an electronic guidance for the work of healthcare professionals on violence and abuse. A pilot project for the management of violence and abuse against vulnerable adults has also been launched. The TrygEst system shall be tested in 12 municipalities and urban areas between 2018 and 2020 and shall contribute to the detection and prevention of infringements. Older people are an important target group in the project. Research into hospital abuse has been very limited. The Research Council has therefore allocated 15 million. to a study at NTNU on violence and abuse against elderly patients in Norwegian nursing homes. The aim of the project is to reduce violence and abuse in hospitals and to develop new knowledge of the extent and extent of violence and abuse in hospitals. It is the municipalities that provide most of the services to them over 65 years of age. Therefore, it is particularly important that municipalities have good practices and strategies against violence and abuse. Two years ago, health legislation was amended precisely to clarify the responsibility for preventing, detecting and averting violence and sexual abuse. Municipalities must have employees with a high level of competence to detect the abuses and follow-up of older people who have been subjected to violence and abuse. One of the steps taken to achieve this increase in competence by the government was the commitment called Competence Lift 2020. Several of the measures in Competencelift 2020 are designed to, or include, sick home employees and professional environments and shall contribute to the strengthening of competences and attitudes that are prejudicial to violence and abuse in hospitals. The commitment to competence has contributed to the training of 84 000 municipal health workers at one level or another in the period from 2016 to 2018. Another important measure is to strengthen the competence of elderly care in dementia. Several dentures have a very pervasive behavior, which can go hard beyond the employees in the service. Demented day-time activities are also an important measure that will help relatives. In terms of quality in care for the elderly, we will recall the quality reform Life throughout life, which has many good points in that context. It is an unacceptablely high number of people who are subjected to violence and abuse. This is unacceptable. Therefore, several measures have been put in place to stop the unacceptable behaviour.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e343	In this case, I would like to commend SV, who for the third time makes a representative proposal in the Stortinget on human rights in the care of the elderly. They did that in 2015, they did that in 2017, and they do that now. The centre party supports SV's proposals in 2015 and 2017, and we will support almost all of the proposals today as well. In 2014, Norway’s human rights institution presented the report Human Rights in Norwegian nursing homes. The report concluded that the treatment of beekeepers in Norwegian hospitals is unlikely to comply with Norway’s human rights obligations. The report further concluded that there is a need for a thorough monitoring of the human rights situation in Norwegian hospitals in terms of both protection against abuse and degrading treatment and interference with personal integrity and necessary and defensive health care. But the government party said no – both in 2015 and 2017. Norway’s human rights institution delivered a new report in 2019 on the rights of the elderly. The report notes that violence against the elderly takes place both at home and at the institution and asks whether the country is doing enough to fulfil its obligations to prevent violence and abuse of the elderly. Over several months, the evening post has surveyed 128 000 deviations from hospitals across the country. Last year there were 13 000 elective episodes in Norwegian hospitals. Every tenth of last year's aberrations relate to the choice, treason and detachment. Caregivers and the elderly alike will be affected. About half of the power mapped by the Evening Post are serious events such as strokes, kicks and strangleholds. The rest are, for example, harassment, excruciating behaviour, spitting, lugging and tugging. The current Minister of Public Health Sylvi Listhaug was shocked by the scale and asked the Health Directorate to monitor the real extent of the power and abuse of the elderly institutions in the country. So it had to be a thorough media matter before the government would listen. We need to know, and we need such a mapping. Under the pandemic that we now have, this is an extra important area. We often talk about vulnerable children under the pandemic. However, we also have vulnerable elderly people, who are now isolated – either in their own homes or in hospitals, where visits are not allowed, and transparency and supervision are weak – while pressure on health services is high. We must ensure that all older people are treated individually under the pandemic. In this case, the central party supports the SV's proposal for a survey of the human rights situation in Norwegian hospitals, in the home country and in the municipal care services. We also support the proposal on empowerment measures. We do not support the proposal for a government staffing standard. There is an own proposal; it is a combination of a strengthened municipal economy and local projects for better rental, increased basic staffing, less temporary employment and several whole settings – with which many municipalities have good experience. With this, I want to deal with the suggestions on which the Central Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e360	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e365	We know that many older people over the age of 65 are exposed to violence in Norway, both at home and at home. We have gained a good knowledge of it – the Knowledge Centre, the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights and, last but not least, the Evening Post is a comprehensive review of violence against the elderly and employees of institutions. The numbers that appear are alarming. We lack both monitoring and action to help the elderly. SV is behind several suggestions to strengthen the care of the elderly, but I am concerned that the right parties and, in part, the Labour Party are voting against them. We propose, together with the Center Party, to identify the human rights situation in Norwegian hospitals and in the home services. I'd like to commend the Center Party for understanding the seriousness. We propose to have quality and competence-based recruitment standards in the care of the elderly, where all relevant professional groups – doctors, nurses, health professionals and other relevant occupational groups – are involved. The plan should be drawn up in cooperation with the employees’ organisations. No other parties in the Health and Welfare Committee have said that they will vote in favour of our proposal. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV propose together the necessary skills-enhancing measures for employees and senior care managers and the improvement of the capacity of relevant vocational school education. I have visited many older people since I am a visiting friend, and the majority of them say that they need more professionals to work in the healthcare system. My friend, Jan, says that he now fears every night and fears that his room may once become his death cell. SV has submitted these proposals over and over again. I'm not going to stop until the other parties understand the seriousness and vote to identify the human rights situation, and we get more people to work in the healthcare community. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e384	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, has addressed SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e389	We have a duty to give our elderly a safe old age, because "All people are born free and with the same human dignity and human rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act against each other in the spirit of brotherhood”, states Article 1 of human rights. Violence and abuses against the elderly and employees of age institutions, home-based services and other municipal care services are a major problem. The evening post has taken a review of this, and the numbers that come out make me worried. Based on reported deviations from the institutions, the Evening Post has come to the conclusion that 13 000 of these are about violence and threats. Very many of these are aimed at the employees as well. Now I think you should be careful to label older dements as violent. Detoxification is part of the disease dementia, the ability to control impulses is also weakened, and many relatives have experienced that the elderly behave differently. They themselves often get sad in retrospect when they understand what they've done after an outrageous event. All of this is known to those who work with the elderly until daily. My point is that we have to mention demente with dignity. Such children and young people may have regulatory difficulties, and older people may also have them, so we have to be careful about calling them violent offenders. Taking out is a natural phenomenon. Parents can also be saved and be distressed — and in ways they cannot control. I'm not sure if the investigation reveals more detachment and deviation than what we know from other countries. In this case, the researchers must say something about it. What I'm concerned about is how detachment can be prevented in nursing homes. Point one: Agents such as shielding and medication are known. I am most concerned that we need to have enough trained and competent staff at the nursing homes, staff working in nursing homes over time, and who feel safe. That's why we're using over 1.5 billion. kr on Competencelift 2020. I also want to recognise the Dignity Centre, which offers relevant refresher training for health professionals. In addition, I am concerned that activation prevents detachment. The elderly have to get stimuli and physical activity, be allowed to get busy with things and do things, so they don't just get passive. In order to achieve all of this, it is important to have sufficient manning and competent manning, for everyone has the right to life, freedom and personal security, as stated in Article 3 of human rights. Let's develop the nursing homes as health-promoting environments with stable and competent staff, because then we're better equipped to meet exhaustion as a natural part of having dementia. Unfortunately, many older people get too many medicines, and that is also one thing I think one should look at, because we have obligations to give our older people a safe old age.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e407	Most elderly people who receive health and care services experience safe hands and proper services, as required by law. But unfortunately, studies and the Evening Post report in winter show that challenges of violence, assault and threats are greater than what we've known about. This applies to patients, relatives and employees. I'm taking this very seriously. We also have other reports and supervisory work that show that there are both failures and deficiencies in the care of the elderly in Norway. It's just this two-part image, both of what works very well in our municipalities, and of what doesn't work well, that's the background of the important quality reform Live your whole life, that this service is now in the middle of, and that just takes into account the basic and important things: being able to have good food moments, having activity in everyday life, having knowledge and competence in service, and having coherent and good services. The protection of human rights is strong in Norway and the rights are well protected by the law of human rights. The majority has previously been informed about our follow-up to the report of the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights on human rights in Norwegian hospitals. The main message was that Norwegian law is considered to comply with our international obligations, and that we have systems for supervision, control and review to ensure proper services. Several cases demonstrate the importance of the role of the State as supervisory authority and the follow-up of critical matters. The government has already taken many steps to prevent violence and abuse against the elderly. We have made it clear that municipalities are responsible for preventing, detecting and averting violence and sexual assault. We have commissioned the Health Directorate to identify the extent of violence in hospitals. The population shall assess the extent and follow-up of domestic violence. The National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress has provided good tools, and we gain experience through the TrygEst model. We've given funds for this. The first results have been published, and more are on the way. I am concerned that the needs of each user should be the basis for the services received. This is integrated into all legislation relating to care services. Therefore, I believe that standardisation is not a suitable instrument to meet the need to plan resources and staff. There has been an increase of more than 10,000 annual works in municipal care services from 2013 to 2017. So the increase in the crew has come without crew standards. I agree with the proposers that competence is important in order to secure the residents and employees of hospitals, and here Competencelift 2020 has been a successful initiative. The promise has helped to ensure that almost 14 000 employees have taken part in basic or continuing training and 70000 employees have taken part in recurrent training in the period 2016 to 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e422	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e427	In the government budget for 2020, the government presented its weakest financial approach to the free income of the municipal sector with a real growth of only 0.3 pst. It's the lowest growth any government has ever presented in the last 15 years. The budget for the current year has applied a triple notification to the municipalities. Very low income growth means that many municipalities have to cut service provision. It is cut into schemes, so that municipalities have to take a greater part of the bill, or the municipalities get orders and tasks that are not fully financed. Finally, the government has restricted the ability of municipalities to raise their own income for property tax welfare. My question to the Council of State is: How will the municipalities manage to take the necessary promise in the care of the elderly in the light of these revelations in the evening post when the government has delivered the tightest budget to the municipalities of 15 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e434	The municipal sector has been strengthened by about 30 billion. kr under this government. The municipalities have very good profits, and the number of municipalities in economic difficulties is historically low. When we presented the state budget for 2020, 10 municipalities were registered in ROBEK. When we took over the government responsibility in 2013, it was 46. As the representative was inside, we have committed to a growth in the free revenues of 1.3 billion. in 2020. We have a number of earmarked schemes that just contribute to improving the quality of this part of the service. As I was at the moment, Competence promise in 2020 has contributed to the fact that 14 000 employees have received basic or continuing training and 70000 employees have taken part in recurrent training in the period 2016-2018. The Government has also decided on a new level of competence to replace Competence Plan 2020, in order to continue this effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e439	When you do not go into extensive manning standards, which neither the Right nor the Workers' Party are at the back of this particular case, it is a matter of having a good enough room for action out there to perform the services, and it is a matter of having confidence that the services are carried out in a good way. At the same time, supervision from the State is a method that can be used to actually verify that you reach the quality you want. It has emerged that the County manages – I take this from memory – only about half of the supervision they should have in the area of child protection. There was a problem that came up now before Easter. I wonder if the County Council is sure that the County Council has the necessary room for action to supervise this field. He was also interested in some of this in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e444	I feel that the county officials have done a good job of following up the quality of this part of the service. It will always be that both the statesmen and the supervisors probably, if they had more resources, could do more. It's important to stress that it's not just those who work on this. We have established a separate investigation commission on adverse health care incidents. It now includes municipal health and care services. Not least, we've changed the law so that we get better competence, knowledge and insight into serious incidents in this part of the service. Serious incidents in this service are now to be reported to the Health Inspectorate under law – not just the kind of events in the specialist health service, as the law was in the past. It will provide us with a better assessment of where there is a high risk in this service in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e449	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e454	It is good to see that we manage to deal with ordinary matters in what is a demanding and very special time for the country, and I want to thank the Committee for the work that has been done, and the work that is done, in these days. Through the role of the Progress Party in the government, much was done to enable municipalities to improve the quality, competence and capacity of care services, and I would like to mention three good examples of this. The first is the reform Life throughout life, where the goal is that older people will be able to master life longer and have a safe, active and worthy old age. Care 2020, which is the government's plan for the 2015-2020 care area, is another example. The aim of the plan is to ensure security by providing a healthcare service based on competence, quality and capacity – this in order to allow more people to live longer at home and live active and independent lives with adapted services. The third is Competence Plan 2020, which aims to contribute to a highly professional municipal health and care service and to ensure that the sector has sufficient and competent staff. Unfortunately, there have been several serious examples of unworthy treatment of demented people in hospital recently. In December, NRK Sørlanden referred to a nursing home in Kristiansand municipality that placed older people with dementia in a small room without furniture, toilet and laundry when they broke out, a room they called the shelter. In this room there was a peek hole that would allow the employees to accompany from the outside, and the room was often used at night. The room was also locked from the outside. No one understood how many times this room was used, nor how long the patients were locked in at the time. It was the County that discovered this offence under supervision – and explicitly stated that this was an illegal instrument. This cannot occur. We cannot live with our elderly being subjected to violence and abuse. Extra serious and alarming is when it happens to our most vulnerable elderly people, who live in nursing homes, and who don't always manage to tell us what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e469	The Progress Party has said that older people should have security in their everyday lives. They had the senior minister when the evening post published the alarming figures on violence against the elderly and employees. Will the Progress Party vote in favour of our proposals since they are on the Grand Summit again? If not, why not? The progress party has talked a lot about the elderly, even on the Stortinget now, but now they can show if the words are empty, or if they will help the elderly by voting in favour of our proposals. I have sent messages to the Progress Party before the debate, so they know that I want to ask this question. They have received the question and should answer it. They had the senior minister before, and they have talked a lot about the elderly, but in the matter they have said that they will not vote for our proposals. Why? Maybe they can change their point of view now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e476	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e493	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e500	The Quality and Patient Safety Notice sums up the quality and patient safety status and challenges in the Norwegian healthcare service and is an annual report to the Stortinget. The notification is based on annual reports and reports from the patient and user environment, the State Health Authority, Norwegian patient compensation, Health Atlas and national and international quality indicators. In Norway, we mainly have a good quality health and care service. Norwegian health services have great confidence in the population. Nevertheless, there are errors, and there are areas of challenges. In the 2012 Quality and Patient Safety Scoreboard, the target was to reduce the patient injury by 25 pst. from 2012 to 2018. In 2013 was 13 p.m. of the patient delay associated with an injury. In 2018, the number was 11.9 pst. There's a happy decline from the previous year. At the same time, we have to recognize that we have not achieved the target of a reduction of 25 pst. from 2012. A minority in the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV propose a new overarching notification with concrete objectives and actions followed up with annual status messages. There are many important aspects to the Committee's comments, both on areas where Norway is doing well, and on areas where challenges are involved. There is no time to go into everything here in the debate, but I would like to ask the Minister of Health to take all the committee comments in the vote in the utmost seriousness, even if not all are mentioned by the Chair. I want to draw some out anyway. Norway is among the countries with most patients who are less satisfied with fixed rates. It shows the need for an action plan. Unwanted variation in cancer treatment is also alarming. The number of patients where the package course is completed within the agreed deadline has decreased in all healthcare providers. The target of 70 pst. is only reached in one health region. The fact that the patient and user environment provides for fewer and more mandatory patient rights is also something we need to take in. Then I will focus on the nationwide supervision of the supply of patients with mental disorders and possible concurrent disorders, which shows inadequate monitoring and distribution of patients. The people found lawbreakers in two thirds of the municipalities. Psychiatric health is one of the areas for which most demands are made by patients and users. The KS also addresses the systemic failure in the supply of people with psychotic disorders and that interaction between services is a challenge. These are feedback and findings that need to be taken seriously. In this setting, the Progress Party and SV are ordered, among others. to extend the penal framework for health professionals convicted of serious and systematic mistreatment of patients and to follow up cases of serious mistreatment by the prosecution authorities. In this area, the central part has a different stop point. We are very critical of the case from Sørlanden Hospital and how she was handled by the lease, but there is no solution to go further towards individual punishment and less systemic responsibility in patient safety work or to remove today's rules on corporate sanctions, as the Progress Party suggests. The question of changing the criminal liability of healthcare professionals was also addressed by the Arianson Committee. They thought that administrative responses would be more appropriate than penalties to ensure patient safety. In serious cases it may be in place with punishment, but it should be reserved for the exceptional deviations. The proposals of the Progress Party and SV today also break with international recommendations for patient safety work, focusing on system and lease responsibility rather than individual responsibility. Supervisory authorities must capture and correct when the system fails, and it is better for supervisory authorities than for prosecution authorities. Finally, Mr Helsetenesta is in the middle of a pandemic, and in connection with this, the Central Party has today put forward two loose proposals on the matter. The one proposal, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, is on a national non-institutional infectious disease protection plan. This is what Stortinget has been called for by the infectious agents. We've done it before, but we haven't got multiples, so we're hoping for multiples today. The second proposal, on behalf of the Centre Party, for which we also hope to have a plurality, is to increase national production and storage of vector equipment. We don't have to wait for an evaluation of the pandemic to start this work. With that I will address the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e523	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e528	It will probably – and rightly – be several of us who in this debate would say that in Norway we have a good health service with a high level of confidence in the population. At the same time, as healthcare has become more open and we as patients have been given rights and mechanisms for transparency in what is going well, and what is not going well, over the last few years we have come to know that many errors happen, and that quality is not always good. Transparency, transparency and evidence are the basis for preventing errors and improving quality. Mistreatment and poor quality are associated with suffering, delayed healing and sometimes death, which was also described very strongly during the Committee’s consultation. That is why it is a great political responsibility, a great leadership responsibility and a great responsibility to ensure that it is better every year. Fortunately, quality and patient safety have now been working on the status it deserves, and this is underlined by the fact that Stortinget treats the topic annually — as it is today. The health service has a complicated structure, and we know it takes time to change routines and attitudes, but many improvements think we could happen faster. The message is what I want to call deserving open, in fact, about a lot of issues where quality is too poor, and that's how a best person gets results when he recognizes the challenges, sets goals, and actively follows up step by step. We therefore believe that there is a need to set more specific objectives, and promote, together with the SV and the Senterpartiet, a separate proposal on this, as the rapporteur just presented. The case rapporteur also presented the Workers' Party and the Centre's view when something goes wrong. We will focus primarily on system and management responsibilities over individual responsibility, in line with unique international recommendations in patient safety work, as underlined by the case-rapporteur. Penalties should be reserved for the particularly significant deviations from good practice. Here is the Workers' Party, as the Center Party, surprised that SV has joined the Advance Party on greater emphasis than today on individual punishment. It is very important that otherwise deviations are reported and that they are recorded. Unfortunately, the notification scheme, with around 10 000 notifications per year, was closed by the Government Parties in 2019. We believe that was a big mistake. We also feel that it is regrettable that our proposal that the government should present a national action plan on infectious diseases outside health institutions was voted down. That is why this proposal is being re-examined here today. Time has clearly shown us that we need such a national plan. The Labour Party also supports proposal No. 7, from the Centre Party, to ensure the increased supply of contaminated equipment to the sea. The OECD has a great deal to say about Norwegian health and care services, but when the OECD finds that Norway is among the countries with the largest proportion of patients who are dissatisfied with its determination, we have to turn this around. We've dealt with this many times. There is a need for an offensive plan of action and objectives, so that we can make sure that we move in the right direction. Quality work in healthcare is often associated with advanced equipment and medical treatment, but all health — and health — begins with the essential needs. At that time, it is alarming that Norway is unable to provide better quality nutrition for the elderly in nursing homes. For the elderly who eat little, it is vital that the food is nutritious. It provides health and well-being. Since the Committee gave its opinion on 10 March, everything in Norway has changed with the corona epidemic. Very many make a fantastic effort day and night. The pandemic has reminded us of something we have always known, but not so often talked about – the great quality work that all health care workers who do not treat patients are responsible for: cleaners washing away viruses, workers at technical departments that maintain ventilation facilities, workers in the kitchen that provide food and good food hygiene. All I've mentioned here are the heroes of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e549	On the right, patients want to be sure that our healthcare is working and that it is well connected. To do that, we have to work all the way to improve it. In these days we see daily how good our health care is, and we shall be proud that our health care is among the best in the world. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of you in the healthcare sector for the amazing stand-by, the ability to change and the professional strength being shown. In the difficult situation now facing our country, we all look to the health service with gratitude and hope. In addition, we know that the health situation in Norway is good. The life expectancy is high, and the mortality after heart attacks and strokes is low. According to the OECD, Norway is among the best countries in terms of the extent of deaths caused by medical failure and that can be avoided by good public health measures. This quality and patient safety message is not written to promote the positive aspects of healthcare. It should primarily provide a transparent picture of areas where we have challenges and need to improve. It is important that we thus remember that the notification does not give an overall picture of the quality of healthcare. More than half of the referrals to the patient and user representatives were concerned with the dissatisfaction with the provision of the service in the form of carefree treatment, patient injury, lack of referrals, lack of information and language problems. This shows that it is right to continue work on empowerment and good governance in healthcare. In the national health and hospital plan, there is just a clear language and the use of the right competences at the right place. Another theme highlighted in the Communication is that we have challenges in the firmness service. The government has announced that they will present an action plan for the general medical field in the municipalities this spring. Both users and professionals have contributed to this plan, and there have been discussions with both the Medical Association and the KS in tripartite cooperation. Looking forward to the results of this work, it is important to look at how the scheme can be improved by increasing recruitment and ensuring that permanent workers remain in their posts. The Health Authority refers to the offers to patients with mental illness and, at the same time, to abusing them in its summary for 2018. The country-wide supervision in 2017/2018 revealed insufficient monitoring and investigation of patients in specialist healthcare and poor investigation of their somatic health problems. It's serious. Lack of management and poor reporting and control procedures were also identified, and much of the same was revealed in the supervision of municipal health services for this patient group. In particular, the municipalities have a job to do in ensuring responsibility for systematic management and management. We want to create the patient's healthcare, a healthcare service where no decisions about us are made without us. In order to ensure that we also have a world-class healthcare service in the future, we therefore need to continue with annual reports on quality and patient safety, so that we are better equipped to continue developing the service. We know that today's situation will shape healthcare for a long time in the future. That's exactly why it's important to lift your eyes up and down. When the whole health system is under pressure, they have to get the help we can give to solve all the new problems that have emerged. Then there will be a time for summary, learning and new measures. On the right, a thorough evaluation of all parts of Norway’s pandemic preparedness and management is sought. We don't yet know what the outcome of this pandemic will be, but we hope all the best. What needs to be changed, and what new measures and plans to take, we need to come back to once we have moved on from the stage we are now in. Now we're in the action phase, that's when we're in the middle of the game. In any case, it is wrong to instruct our professionals to draw up new plans in the middle of the situation we are now in. They're going to have to do the problem they're now dealing with the pandemic. Now, if we're going to instruct the Health Directorate to make a new action plan, they have to use the same people who are going to deal with today's situation, in the task of making plans while they're actually working with the pandemic. Nor will we pre-empt what individual measures are to be taken, and in what order, now. I note that work is being done intensively in all parts of the healthcare system, including logistics and procurement, to ensure the availability of materials in a very demanding and unbridled landscape. I want to give the Hospital Purchase an honor for the job they do with this, and not least thank all the logistics workers and drivers for all the hard thanks they take. With this background, we do not support the solutions to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e579	Every year, the government submits a report on quality and patient safety in healthcare. The aim is greater transparency and increased attention to quality and patient safety in national and local health policies. The message describes the status and challenges and contains reports from the patient and user representatives, the State Health Authority, Norwegian patient compensation and national and international quality indicators. In summary, you can start looking at the messages given. In 2018, the patient and user representatives received about 15 000 enquiries. They point out that the processing time is very long for most statesmen and for the State Health Authority. It reduces confidence in the final decision and reduces the learning outcomes for the service. They require a greater political commitment to ensure that the supervisory authority has sufficient resources to properly monitor complaints and breaches of health and care law rights. In 2018, 20 inspections were carried out by the staff of 19 health establishments. The main findings were that there was insufficient monitoring and investigation of patients, and that in many places the competence of the caregivers was not properly assessed or ensured. They found offences in two thirds of the municipalities surveyed. In 2018, the State Health Authority handled 639 cases on the basis of warnings of serious and unexpected events. The specialist healthcare service is required to notify of deaths or very serious incidents outside of the likely risk. Experience has shown that businesses have come to differing degrees in learning from serious incidents. Norwegian patients’ compensation treats claims from patients whom they believe have been harmed or mistreated in healthcare. In 2018 they dealt with 5,677 cases. About a third were satisfied with their claim, and it was paid in excess of 1 billion. NOK i in compensation. Most cases are related to orthopaedics and cancer. Treatment failures are the most frequent cause, and one third of NPE interventions were not reported in the local aberration systems. This raises concerns and demonstrates the importance of action to improve quality and patient safety in the health sector. Only in the care of the elderly are there major deviations. All hospital residents shall have a once-a-year review of medicinal products if they use more than four medicinal products. 54 pst. it was obtained by all the residents of the nursing home. In the follow-up of nutrition, only 46 pst. by the residents of nursing homes have been assessed for nutritional risks. It is important that quality work is also started in the care of the elderly in the municipalities and that users themselves should be given the opportunity to make representations to the municipality for improvements. Therefore, in this case, we propose that a national model be established for user and family surveys that can be used by the municipality to provide users and relatives with the opportunity to report on the potential for improvement to the municipalities. Recently, the NRK has revealed a doctor at Sørlanden hospital who has injured and mutilated several patients. However, the management here chose to let him continue to operate. I have asked Health Minister Bent Höie questions whether he will instruct health companies to automatically remove health professionals from operational service while they are under investigation/verification for serious mistreatment. The Minister of Health doesn't want that. That is why the Progress Party and the SV are promoting proposals on this matter. I can also mention that the doctor has now been removed from the operational service. Health South-East has launched an external audit of the hospital, and this doctor is now under investigation in at least seven oversight cases. Three patients have died. The Progress Party believes that it should be a matter of course that management in such specific cases chooses to remove doctors from operational service while they are under investigation in such cases. The Progress Party promotes a number of actions and proposals in this matter that we believe will be important in improving quality work and patient safety out there. We point out, among other things: that in the cases where the Health Authority concludes that health professionals have broken the law and systematically violated it grossly and negligently, it must be followed up. We see that the Health Authority sends these serious cases to the prosecution for further follow-up. We believe that it has to end. Finally, I would also like to mention the corporate fine, which is one of the most frequently used responses to hospitals that systematically do not take their management responsibility. To give the hospitals a fine we believe in the Progress Party works against its purpose. That fine is paid only through the hospital's economy, and will go out on innocent patients at the other end. I would like to take up the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals we have with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e607	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e612	The SSB has estimated that we are going to lack 27 000 health professionals and 28 000 nurses in 2035 if we don't drastically change the educational rate. The National Audit Office reports on staffing challenges in healthcare companies that hospitals do not have an overview of current competences in relation to tasks or a plan to address the challenges. In particular, the National Audit Office points out that hospitals are struggling with the recruitment of health professionals and do not have a plan for how to do so. They struggle to keep health workers, and two thirds of the nurses and midwives work part-time. Nurses, health professionals, doctors, and all the others, like cleaners and porters, work a lot under the coronary apnea, but we know that they worked a lot before the pandemic hit Norway. It is clear that the staff in hospitals and municipalities need to be reviewed and strengthened. We need more permanent, entire positions. We need more people working in health care and not tax cuts for the rich. I'm worried that health professionals work so much that some of them won't work after the pandemic is over. I have received signals from the Norwegian Nursing Association that several of those who work a lot will not work in the health care system after that. Then we have a big problem. We need a health care system that builds up people, doesn't use them so much that they fall off. It is our job at Stortinget, and SV's job, to make sure that health professionals are able to do their job. Health professionals don't run sprints, they run marathons. We can't use them up. We need better staffing in hospitals and in the municipalities. We need more permanent, entire positions. We need more people working in health care. We need to rig the health system better than before. We had little manning capacity before the pandemic hit Norway. We also had problems accessing important drugs before the pandemic came. Now it's even worse. We need safe and secure access to drugs. SV has proposed and will again propose StatMed. It is important for patients, the economy and the industry that we make more medicines in Norway. It's one medicine that's the foundation of the whole health system, and it's antibiotics. Antibiotic-resistant bacteria are called the health sector’s climate crisis. This is one of the greatest challenges in modern medicine. The challenges will stand in line if we don't get antibiotics that work. Norway needs faster and better diagnostic systems and microbiological diagnostics on which bacteria antibiotics work best. The use of broad-spectrum antibiotics in hospitals is still high in Norway. There are several suggestions in the Health and Sickness Plan to counteract antibiotic resistance, and I hope that all parties will vote in favour of SV's proposal when it comes before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e627	The annual Quality and Patient Safety Scoreboard is an important contribution to providing patients and users with safe services and good quality. I am pleased that an overall committee continues to support this, stating that it is both right and important that quality and patient safety be put on the agenda annually. It is the sixth year in a row that the government is presenting a global report showing the status and challenges of healthcare. The message is our response to the fact that transparency and the sharing of knowledge and information stimulate quality improvement locally and attention to good management at all levels. Much has happened since we submitted the message that is being processed today. The challenges described in the notification are in no way diminished in the pandemic in which we are located, and the requirements of soundness also apply in this situation. I'm proud of the Norwegian health and care service. Employees are the health care's most important resource. Taking care of employees is also good quality and patient safety. We see this clearly at these times, made visible by the need for both infection protection equipment, capacity, training and competence building, so that we can deal with covid-19 and the consequences of the disease for different patient groups. Today, we do not know the impact of the corona virus on quality and patient safety, but we will have this knowledge because we already have integrated procedures to monitor the quality and impact of healthcare on patient safety. We have a good health service, and we still have to have it. Therefore, it is important to document what works well, but also what works badly. We're getting more and more knowledge, and the knowledge is going to be used. The message we are discussing today is an important contribution to bringing together and systematising, but also to disseminating knowledge and informing about what is happening in healthcare. Information from the patient and user representatives, the Health Authority and Norwegian patient compensation shows where there is room for improvement. They capture challenges that cannot be read in numbers and statistics, and bring out patients and groups who need to be seen and heard. Therefore, the annual reports of these agencies are so important to show – in addition to the national and international quality indicators, which provide a broader and more nuanced picture of the challenges. Our goal is that this message should be a source of leadership planning at all levels, while we also need to make a sample. The Committee refers to several themes and sources that could have been mentioned in the Communication, including: the extent of patient injury through the use of the GTT method, the mapping of working environment and patient safety culture, data from quality records and notifications of adverse events. The concrete improvement work is being done in the health and care services – close to patients. That is why we have set targets for, among other things. transparency, learning and improvement of this message. To follow the work more closely, we have asked health regions for feedback on how they comply with the management and quality improvement regulations. I expect leaders to use this big message and other data sources to identify areas where they have challenges, but also areas where they have good results that others can learn from. The setting of this year’s Communication shows that the Health and Welfare Committee is united in stating that it is right and important to put quality and patient safety on the agenda, including here in the main hall. The setting shows a broad commitment to systematic quality work in healthcare. I believe that this is a good basis for further work and an important support for all those who do this sometimes to quite heavy work out in our services. An annual notification of quality and patient safety cannot go into depth in individual areas. My call and wish are for it to be used precisely for the planning, implementation, evaluation and correction of health care services, so that together we can tackle the challenges we face, and help all patients have an equivalent access to good and safe health care – now, but also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e650	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e656	This Communication addresses some issues related to care for the elderly. Then there are a number of challenges, both with satisfaction among users and with regard to the offer you get, that are not measured in this type of statistics. We in the Progress Party want more people to carry out user and related studies, just to involve those who actually use the offer. What is the Minister of Health’s view of conducting user and family surveys in municipal care for the elderly? And will he take any initiative to make it easier for municipalities to carry out such investigations?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e663	I fully agree with the representative that we need better and more systematic user and family surveys in municipal health and care services. Therefore, the State budget for 2020 allocates 3.8 million. kr for further development of this type of study. I would also encourage municipalities to find appropriate ways to gain user experience, so that they can also better evaluate and improve the services provided. But I hope that the appropriations made by now in 2020 will also help to make this even better than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e668	Thanks for the good response from the Minister of Health – it will be exciting to follow up on that work further. My follow-up question goes on a different theme: corporate fines. Does the Council know how many hospitals in Norway have been fined in the last three years? And does the Minister of Health himself think that this is a good tool for improving the offer? It is at least that the fine must be paid by a budget, and that health budget should actually go to better patient treatment. Does the Minister of Health think that it makes sense to pay fines back to the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e675	I do not have an overview of how many people have received corporate fines. It's a very strong tool that's used in the most serious cases, and I think it's a sensible tool, which one has just because the fine is a very clear feedback. This is about the systematic failure of the service for which management is responsible. I understand that you get such a fine, there's one thing that it involves a financial payment, but there's also something about this being something that's really bad, given that it's a very clear feedback you get, that's taken seriously. Our health services run with a lot of high risk, and then it's very important that both management's attention and good systems to reduce that risk. That's why I think corporate fines are one of many tools that make sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e682	In the last transmission of the Quality and Patient Safety Scoreboard issued by the Red-Green Government in 2012, there was a target for a reduction in patient injury of 25 pst. until 2018. The number of patient injuries in the period was reduced from 13 pst. from patient retention in 2013 to 11.9 pst. in 2018. So the goal that was set by a bunch of caves has not been reached. Now we are in 2020, and the previous target period, until 2018, we are over. So my question is what is the new goal of the government when it comes to patient injuries, measured by the GTT method, which is also mentioned in this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e689	It is still the way we measure the hospitals at GTT, and that is why this is part of the mission that health companies are given. We have three overall objectives for health businesses. It is reducing unnecessary waiting and making use of capacity, giving priority to drugs and mental health, and improving patient safety and quality, including health, environment and safety for employees. One of the last subparagraphs is just about a reduction in patient injury measured in GTT, and it is quite right that the representative is concerned that one who has not reached the goal set, even though it is a single hospital that has reached the target. There is now a lot of work to be done in learning between hospitals, just what makes individual hospitals do this, while other hospitals have not. Then I have to stress: GTT is not suitable for comparing the results between hospitals, but it can be used to see the development of hospitals. Therefore, you can see that some hospitals have succeeded in getting a good development, while others have not succeeded as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e696	The action plan against antibiotic resistance in healthcare expires in 2020. The use of broad spectrum antibiotics in Norway is high. In the health and medical plan, SV proposes to extend the plan and that the plan will last longer. Will the State Council support the SV's objectives and extend the antibiotic resistance plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e701	I think we almost have to get back to it in connection with the work on the National Health and Hospital Plan, which I perceive the committee is working on, and which we hope will soon have to deal with here in the Chamber. But there is no doubt that I fully share the SV's wish that one should continue the strong efforts we have against antibiotic resistance, and what the representative also addressed in his statement, that this is the health care climate challenge. But the fact that it is a climate challenge also demonstrates complexity, because, just as with the climate challenges, this is an area where we have to act locally and nationally, but also internationally, in order to succeed. It is complex, and it is also cross-sectoral – it is not just about health, but also about animal health, about food – and therefore it has many common features with the climate challenge. But the importance of Norway doing our part of the great effort, I fully agree with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e706	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e711	This message shows, as many have said, or at least points to the fact that in Norway we have a high-quality healthcare system, among the best in the world. But here we also have a message that says there's room for improvement, and more have been in several areas. Among other things, the representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen addressed this with medicinal products for the elderly, and especially the elderly in institutions. That's something that also concerns me, because we know that many elderly people unfortunately have too many medicines and combinations of medicines. It's serious. In 2017, it was laid down that nursing homes should have a pharmacovigilance review on income, and a review thereof at least once a year. Statutory doctors are obliged to carry out a medical review for patients using four or more medicinal products. It is clear that here there is a expectation that the hospitals and the caregivers will follow this up, because it is also about a safe old age. It also points to the challenges that we can see in the long term, especially in terms of manning. Wilkinson was in both health and nursing shortages, as we can see from the forward figures will come once. Obviously, if we wait to do something about it until the problem really arises, we're too late. This is something we need to focus on now, and not wait until it's too late. It's room for improvement, as I said. I wanted to take the floor too to comment on the solutions that have been promoted in the room now, among others. the fact that the opposition parties therefore want the government to promote a national action plan for the protection of disease outside the health institutions. I would just like to point out that those who will then possibly prepare this new action plan are the same as they are now dealing with the coronary apathy and the situation in Norway. It's people who now, every single day, are in the rush for us to deal with this situation in the best possible way. In the case of directorates, in the case of the ministry, there are underlying actors who then have to enter the picture and create an action plan. I believe that there is a time for everything, but now is the time to deal with the situation and not to oblige them to draw up an action plan. I don't think it's time now. It may have to come later. So I just want to say on behalf of the government parties that we are not going to support the solved proposals in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e731	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e736	The main message shows that the waiting time in mental health protection and interdisciplinary specialised drug treatment fell in 2018. Of course, it's positive, but at the same time we know that this government has worn out its entire period of fulfilling its promises of a commitment to mental health through what they have called the Golden Rule. It is worth noting that an overall committee refers to the KS consultation exercise on system failures in the provision of services to people with drug problems and mental disorders and that interaction between services is a major challenge. KS also indicates that the reduction of daily places in mental health protection is taking place too quickly. The Medical Association points out that the reduction of bed places in mental health protection needs to be halted and that the golden rule needs to be replaced by a concrete escalation plan for the field. These are concerns that the opposition on the left has raised several times. When an overall committee points to the need for specific focus on quality and patient safety in both care and mental health protection, there is also a recognition of cross-political understanding, including from the government parties, that we have not come far enough in this field. Too many people don't get the help they need, even if they can ask for it on their own initiative. In 2018, 674 people in Norway took their own lives. A great overweight of them was men. There is a development that has gone in the wrong direction. If we compare with 2014, it's an increase of 123 people. If we use the road safety work – which we have done very well – as a template, we see that in 2018 108 people died in traffic. We have had a massive focus on road safety and have succeeded. In the field of mental health and suicide, we have not succeeded in the same way. The Corona situation that we are now facing challenges us further in this field. Many who struggle with poor mental health experience that the services they have received in the municipality, in the specialist health service, have been changed and weakened as a result of exceptional times. It's a burden on those people. But there are also more people who experience the loneliness of this situation as extra demanding, which in turn we have to take into account that they will be able to go beyond mental health and cause more people to need help, and that more people need more help. The situation we are facing now only further reinforces the concerns that arise in regard to mental health and mental health protection in the EEAS that we are dealing with now, and which we all have a responsibility to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e751	I take the floor to do the right thing for the two loose proposals that we have put forward on this matter. To ask the government to submit a national action plan for non-health care: I believe that the government party argues that there is a time for everything, and now it is not time to make such a proposal, because now the ministry is doing much more important things. But we've been thinking about this. We have deliberately not set a time when this plan is to be presented to Stortinget. Of course, we are waiting for this acute crisis to be over, but there is no reason why the Storting should not say that we have to get this in place. We probably know from the experience we have – we need to strengthen the municipal protection system. In the municipalities, most of the work on infectious diseases is done. We have repeatedly been asked from the professional community that we now need to strengthen both the competence and the professional environment in the municipalities. It's not just about pandemics and epidemics, but it's about securing safe drinking water, food control, etc. We focus a lot on infectious diseases in hospitals and hospitals, but we need a national action plan for non-health care. To this end, it is a time for everything: the Central Party is making this proposal in 2016. Then the plural was against it. We put forward the same proposal in 2019 and received support from the Labour Party and SV. Then the government party was against it too, but now the argument is that there's no time for it. So a user at least has a very subduing argument, and I don't think that's wise. On the second proposal, to increase the self-sufficiency of health care infectious equipment through national production and emergency storage and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate way: it is pointed out from the government parties that there is no time for this now – now is the time for evaluation. But I think that there's one thing we don't actually need a large evaluation selection to determine, is that it was and has been a big challenge with access to infectious diseases equipment under this pandemic. We're dependent on imports, we've had too little stock. It is extremely important to ensure quality and patient safety. Many people have used pirate copies, which we don't know have hold targets and which have led to infection. Norwegian Industry has shown that this is possible. They have the will, and now we have to get the political force to start this work. It's actually time to make a decision for now. We don't have to come back in two or three years after an evaluation and a new big message to find out exactly this, and I hope that we can get more for these two principles in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e762	I also took the floor to comment on the solutions proposed by the Central Party today. First, to proposal No. 7, where the centre batch proposes to ensure increased self-sufficiency of infectious equipment through national production and emergency storage. Let me first say that I have great sympathy for this proposal coming up. It is a long way from a proposal that the Progress Party is now also discussing. However, we are much more concerned with placing private health professionals on the market to produce more medicines here in Norway. It is about reducing risk, securing preparedness and, of course, national security. In the proposal, it is so diffusely written about how to use private actors, that we want this to be transformed into a transmission proposal and at the same time be involved in some of the government's assessments. As regards proposal No: 8, we agree that the Central Party has promoted it in the past – they also promoted the proposal last year. I think it's all too easy to point out that this pandemic would be better managed if the Stortinge had a majority to start a work on a national action plan last year. It wouldn't have been finished until this coronary apex broke out. Nor is it the case that national action plans solve everything. In the case of coordinated protection against infection outside the hospital sector, I still believe that the most important measure in the protection of the infection is good management in the municipalities. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV control approx. 80 pst. of the municipalities in Norway, so they have had plenty of opportunities to address this in their respective municipalities. When this proposal is thrown over the table today, the Group of the Progressive Party naturally did not have time to make a thorough assessment of it. However, the assessment is that the time will come. If we are to meet a new pandemic in a better way, there may be different measures to strengthen it. There may be either improvements in the current infectious disease control plan or other measures that will need to be assessed. But the Progress Party believes it must be assessed in a context. In Norway, we will have more experience with this pandemic, and various measures will be discussed and assessed to be able to meet new pandemics better prepared. We'll have to take that discussion. Proposal No. 8, as it is now, we will vote against. Then we will include it in the evaluation reviews later. Proposal No. 7 we want as a transmission proposal, and I hope the health industry in Norway is now listening carefully to this debate. More production of medicinal products will be needed here in Norway, precisely in order to reduce risks and ensure preparedness. That's what the private actors have to deal with most of the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e777	There are demanding times, and I also need to say that the Council of State is making a great effort. But I'm a little disappointed with the representative Stensland – although I realize that it's a time for everything – and that it's not possible to adopt anything like that that the representative Toppe was in, that we're going to have such a plan. I want to say it like this: Experience is something you have after you had needed it. Also in busy times it is possible to have in the back of your head that one day a plan should be made like this – and bring with you a small notebook where one writes up some things, so that one is sure that one gets what is running as fast as it is now. I recommend again to join this proposal, so that the Storting has done that job. And then you get to deal with it as it's possible in the department. This is continuous experience that's fun to have in the back of your head. In 2016, Stortinget considered a proposal from the Workers' Party. The representative Kjersti Toppe also mentioned 2016 and the proposal that was promoted already then. That proposal by the Labour Party in 2016 was about improving access to specialist nurses. We would have an obliging escalation plan for the training of specialist nurses based on a national overview of the situation and future needs. Some people might ask, how many plans do you really need? But it's not so stupid to plan from time to time. Then it is often the case that one comes a little ahead of demanding situations. Now we see the situation of specialist nurses, not least intensive nurses. I see that the Council of State has drawn itself, and I would like to hear how he intends to solve this in the foreseeable future. One more thing: it's worth listening to the patient and user representatives. At least they made a strong impression on us in the Workers' Party when they were at the hearing – on the part of the Department, one also refers to the patient and user representatives. This applies to families with disabled children, they experience little influence over their own daily lives and lack of coherence in the provision of services. This is also an important part of our quality and patient safety work. So if the council has time, he has to say three words about how this is going to be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e786	I would first like to thank you for your nice words! And then I just want to stress that what we're now up in is going to be thoroughly evaluated. The government has taken the initiative of setting up a commission of inquiry, which we have a good dialogue with the Corona Committee in the United Kingdom on both the mandate and the composition of. I'm quite sure that the Commission is going to come up with points that are going to say that we could have been better prepared, they're going to come up with points that are going to say that we can do this another time, and they're probably also going to figure out points about what was good. That's always the way it's going to be after such a situation. I think it's a good idea that we actually think that such a commission of inquiry would be able to provide a broad evaluation of these things, but also make good suggestions on how things should be done further, and that we take that discussion then and not while we're in the middle of the situation. It brings me to comment on some of the posts that have been held now, and the proposals. As far as infectious diseases equipment is concerned, I am absolutely sure that one of the main themes is going to be a discussion about better preparedness stocks and better preparedness systems for it. We are now in a situation where we buy a lot of equipment internationally. We have now also concluded contracts with the Norwegian Industry for the construction of production capacity in Norway. It's doing it all the time. It will be part of the discussion afterwards considering the type of this capacity we will also have in the future as part of the preparedness. There must not be any impression that we have not now concluded agreements and are continuing to conclude agreements with the Norwegian Industry in order to also produce protective equipment in Norway. The same applies in the field of medicinal products. It was an area where we had already started a lot of work in terms of preparedness. In early March, the Health Directorate was to provide a large report on the storage or pre-storage of active substances and an evaluation of the production of individual medicinal products in Norway. In this area, too, we have worked closely with the business community now on, among other things. production in Norway. No matter what situation we are in, it could be talking about niche products, but nevertheless important products. In the case of anaesthetic nurses and other specialist nurses, I fully agree with the representative Hagebakken that there we need to increase capacity. Therefore, last year the government also launched a stepping-up plan to increase the capacity of education. It is also in line with what the Workers' Party has called for. So I just want to stress that we have plans for pandemics both locally and nationally. When it comes to the issue of a separate action plan, I am pleased that someone has not thought that there is something we should start working with now. In any case, the evaluation will tell us afterwards whether an action plan is the right way to improve the capacity and competence of local work on this, or whether we need to look at other instruments. I hope that is also something we can come back to when we actually have a thorough evaluation at the bottom of that kind of decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e801	I am pleased that several batches are now involved in medicinal products and the importance of medicinal products for human use, and not least for patient safety. Some have faced the challenges of over-use of drugs. It is a very important challenge, but unfortunately there is also an increasing challenge to drug shortages. What we have seen in an ordinary situation in recent years is that there has been almost an explosive increase in the number of non-compliances. The current situation challenges us further in terms of lack of medicines. It was in so far as the Progress Party made me take the floor, and I am pleased that they are now also engaged in the issue of medicines and lack of medicines. I remember that there was an opportunity last year, when the Workers' Party promoted the proposal to reduce the vulnerability of drug shortages – an opportunity to do some active action, where the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre were standing alone on ten measures that could have a very good and past effect compared to the course that the government offered. When the Progress Party talks, it sounds as if it is the private actors who are going to take care of the production of medicines and thus remedy the vulnerabilities we face. I fully agree that we have to play with the private players in the industry that we have here in Norway, but I am also convinced that we need an overall national plan for what types of medicines it is possible to produce in Norway, and what types of medicines will help to reduce the vulnerability we face today. This cannot be left to the market as such – we have to play with the market, but it has to be a national plan for how we can take advantage of the opportunities we also have in Norway. In addition, I believe that we are unfortunately late in the process of expanding the use of emergency stocks, but I hope that the Minister of Health has pressed the button to get what is possible from medicines. Because in the case of medicinal products – as opposed to infectious diseases – we have to expect that there is a delaying effect. Now perhaps the production in the factories has stopped. Stocks still have medicines, but in a few months it may be difficult to obtain those medicines. With the infection protection system, we immediately saw it. In the case of medicines, I fear that the deficiency situation could be serious in a short time. If there is something the Korona crisis has shown us, it is – in my view – that it is actually the community we have to rely on at these times. We can take good advantage of private actors, but it is the community – the public – that also the market and the private today point out to a large extent so that we can get out of this crisis we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e814	This applies again to the two loose proposals. It's not like we want to take the big debate on the pandemic now, in no way at all. We have two very specific proposals. One is a proposal that we have put forward before, and which we naturally repeat now, when there has been a great debate about the exact need for better municipal protection, and that one needs a greater focus on this also from the Stortinget's side. So it's like that the investigation commission that's going to take the big evaluation, as I've been told, is going to deliver its report to the next spring, and then it's going to be even longer before the Storting might get a case. Then it's going to be several years, and when there's clearly things that an already should now show a direction for from the Stortinget's side, I think it's a responsibility we also have to take in the situation that we're in now. To the Progress Party, which does not feel that they can vote in favour of the proposal on national production and the safe storage of vector equipment: I cannot understand that the proposal for a decision is inconclusive in the case of private individuals, because nothing in that proposal indicates that this should only be a public production, if it is one of the fears. In my post I referred to Norwegian Industry, and the Minister of Health pointed out that contracts have been made with private individuals for the delivery of infectious diseases equipment. But our point is that it wasn't until the Korona came to Norway, and it doesn't work. We have to get this into system. In Bergen, the Janus factory, in cooperation with Ekorenes, has done an impressive job of speeding up the production of mouthbands. After all, Janus was an emergency plant for the state until the 1980s, but then it was abolished. In any case, we believe that the proposal is not indelible when it concerns private individuals, that it can be difficult to interpret as it is. In addition, I would say to the Progress Party that it also says that one should come back to the Storting in an appropriate way. If the lot of progress is inconsistent with the weighting here, or otherwise, there is an opportunity to come back and correct it. So I want to encourage the Progress Party to support the proposal on national production. We do not want to make it a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e827	I feel the need to answer a few things that have been said in the debate. First, Kjersti Toppe thought we were dealing with substituting arguments. I don't think we do. The government presented on its own initiative a revision of the IPD last year. A number of measures were then promoted. After that, the government has set up its own preparedness groups for biological threats — several action plans have now been put in place. Various responsibilities have also been tightened up in the IPD Act. Then there was one suggestion we chose to vote against. It was then the Council of State Sylvi Listhaug who argued against voting in favour of that proposal. She justified it in the staging room. Subsequent work on infectious diseases has shown that the government has taken this seriously throughout 2019. It's a little strange when you say you have an understanding that you don't have time to make the plan now, but you want to adopt it, so you can start making the plan when you have time for it. Well, that's when you agree to confirm exactly what I'm saying, that's a time for everything. We have to move on to where we are now, so we have to take the evaluation and then figure out what are the right plans to work with, as the Council of State has explained. The representative Hagebakken said he was disappointed in me. Well, what I'm saying is that I want to take into account those who are actually now working on the pandemic every day – 24 hours – in the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute. I don't think it's right to impose new investigative jobs on them right now. You choose to be disappointed with it, you get to pay the representative for the Hagebakken, but like the Hagebaken, I want all the best for our people. I think the best thing now is that we focus on dealing with the situation we're facing – get a thorough evaluation and then do the right steps to make sure we're better in a new situation. The representative of Morland has a good commitment to the pharmaceutical field, but it is not that the work on deficiencies has been static. As the Council of State explained, a report in a normal situation would have been submitted shortly before Easter. In the case of emergency storage, it is not correct that they have remained silent. They have been adjusted and increased in line with the advice of our professional authorities. The government presented amendments to the pharmaceutical law that justify rationalisation, which have already been put into effect. It's not like you've been standing still. Nor is it the case that the Workers' Party has gone to the front. This is a work that started already in the previous period, through a broad-based drug notification. Bent Höie took strong and strong hold of the pharmaceutical field as soon as he became Minister of Health, and it bears fruit, even now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e842	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e847	My fear that the Center Party does not want to use the market, I have many good reasons for, among other things. when we discussed a regulation earlier today through the EEA Agreement. The comments of the centre party clearly showed that what they were concerned about was that hospitals could not use self-made medicine, that the exemption they have today in order to do so would not be sufficiently protected, and that hospitals in Norway would then be forced to use the market more. That proposal has not been formulated by the words ‘private operators’ at all. I believe that it is essential to ensure better preparedness, better production of medicinal products, especially critical medicinal products in Norway, that private operators are used. I record that the Minister of Health has been in dialogue with the pharmaceutical industry and private actors to start producing it now in Norway. I think that's good. We will come back to this matter. I think it is a pity that the Central Party does not want to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal, so that we can work out together how we can use private actors more, and not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e855	To the last representative, I would first like to say that this proposal does not deal with medicinal products. This proposal deals with infectious disease protection equipment, and there is actually a slight difference. I have to admit that pharmaceutical production is more complicated. There are many components. It is a component of one country and a component of another. Infectious protection equipment is simpler. Producing mouthbands in Norway is actually something that I think we can do, and it's not that hocuspocus. Maybe breathing equipment is more complicated, for the more intense contagion situation, but contagion coats and mouthbands are something we have to be able to produce in Norway. In fact, it is not so complicated that we have to make this a transmission proposal. Here, Stortinget can say that we have enough experience now to know that this needs to be better prepared for ourselves, and we have to be able to do it in Norway. If a health care establishment wants to produce it, we're not against it. Most likely, this Norwegian industry, which is now facing a major economic crisis, is tripping after starting such production. I think that the Progress Party must benefit from this and help us get more for the proposal. To the representative Sveinung Stensland: I at least perceive that there is substitutive argument. If the representative doesn't mean it, at least I see it. It is good enough to be against the need for such an action plan for the protection of infectious diseases in municipalities, that there is no time at present. First we get criticism that we are making it now, and when we say that we don't have time-limits, we get criticism for it as well. I think it's important to increase and strengthen the work on municipal infectious diseases. The fact that preparedness groups have been reduced, and that there are several other action plans, is true, but these plans do not deal in particular with what our proposal is about, namely the non-institutional protection of infectious diseases. If everything was done very well, why are we standing and missing mouthbands in the municipalities? We all have to recognize that we have not been good enough bids there, and that probably also has the opposition's part of the responsibility for it. When we put in government, we probably weren't clear enough either, but at least that's the experience now. That's what the Central Party wants to do, and so we prefer the loose proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e864	I'm sorry I have to take the floor again – I'm just afraid that we're going to get stuck with the idea that we haven't signed an agreement with Norwegian Industry on the production of infectious disease protection equipment in Norway. We have. I called Norsk Industri to a meeting on March 3rd this year where this was just a topic, and it has resulted in several contracts on a number of different types of infection protection equipment that we have now agreed to produce in Norway – so that one does not, after this debate, have the impression that when the proposal of the Centre party is likely to be voted down on this point, it means that the government and the government parties are opposed to the conclusion of that kind of agreement. No, the point is that this type of agreement has been concluded and the equipment is now being produced in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e869	The representative Sveinung Stensland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e874	For the record, I think she's been criticized. I have not done so, but I have explained why I disagree with the proposal and why I believe it is not time and place for it now. But I fully agree with the representative Toppe in one thing, and that is something I work quite hard and focused on, namely that we should get more pharmaceutical production. She is quite right that the proposal they come up with is about infectious disease protection equipment. We now have one of the world's largest plants for the production of two different active substances. Norway has a proud tradition of producing active substances. We can keep doing that, and we can get better. We also have several world-class companies that make brilliant drugs – to say it in such a Trump tone. We can build on that too. There's really something to bet on, and I think everyone agrees. But it's really like, as Morland was about, that we have a demanding supply situation globally. That's what we need to pay attention to now, and then we get to work on the longer-term measures along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e879	Only one short line at the end of what the Council of State said: it is quite right that the government has made a commitment to enter into agreements with private individuals on the production of infectious diseases equipment. We thought that was very good. This proposal is not about concluding agreements with private individuals under this pandemic. It's been done by the government, and it's the result. Our proposal is to increase self-sufficiency and not to cause a private to produce in a crisis situation, but that one should in the long run be much more self-sufficient in the use of infectious agents even in peacetime. Then one has to create a longer-term plan for it and not as an immediate measure in the pandemic – just to find out that we are not disunity in what the government has done. We are very pleased with the private measures and advances that have been made. But this proposal is about something else and looks more forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e886	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e903	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e919	No one has asked for the floor. The size of the meeting is going to be paused, and the meeting will be revisited at 0 p.m. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e946	The size is then ready to go to voting. Case No. 1 has already been treated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e960	During the debate Kjersti Toppe has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a new proposal on medical devices. The proposition must ensure that neither the law on medical devices nor the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the regulation on medical devices and the regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices restrict the possibility for public health services to use self-made medical devices compared to today, nor restrict the national space for action to regulate genetic self-testing.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e998	During the debate, Tuva Moflag has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to establish a national treatment register for pacemakers and implantable heart starters’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e1229	The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e1242	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e1256	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e1268	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government, in cooperation with employees’ organisations, is asked to investigate and propose quality and competence-based recruitment standards in the care of the elderly. A standard of personnel must take into account all relevant occupational groups, where doctors, nurses, health professionals and other relevant occupational groups are part of the assessment and it must be established how task-sliding, education and training can contribute to the achievement of the standard of manpower.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e1297	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to launch, as soon as possible, a survey of the human rights situation in Norwegian hospitals, in the home and other municipal care services, where residents and users themselves, and their relatives, are sources. The Government is requested to report appropriately to the Storing.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e1321	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate and come back to the Storting with a proposal for the necessary measures of competence for staff and senior care managers, which can prevent and reduce violence and abuse against the elderly and workers in the care of the elderly.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that there is sufficient capacity in relevant post-secondary education and provision of continuing education in geriatrics for health professionals, ergot therapists, physiotherapists and porters.’; The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e1350	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-4, by Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5 and 6, by Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of the Party of Advancement proposal No 7, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 8, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose to settle fines as a criminal reaction to health businesses and to propose other appropriate sanctions against management who have systematically and grossly neglected their management responsibilities.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a model for user and family search in the care services and to ensure that all municipalities implement it annually.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e1390	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–4, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put in place a firm practice to remove doctors and other health professionals from operational service while under investigation/investigation for systematic, serious and serious mistreatment of patients.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all cases where the Health Authority concludes that health professionals have broken the law and carried out systematic, serious and grossly negligent mistreatments are followed up by the prosecution authorities.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to extend the criminal penalties for health professionals convicted of serious and systematic mistreatment of patients, with a view to increasing the current maximum sentence of three months.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e1419	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for increased self-sufficiency of infectious health care equipment through national production and emergency storage and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e1436	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 8, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a new overall report on quality and patient safety in healthcare services, with concrete objectives and actions followed by annual status messages.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a national action plan for the protection of infectious diseases outside the health institutions.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e1477	Case No. 6 and 7 are the second processing of laws and apply to legal acts 77 and 78. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-17.ana.ud450e1600	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
