ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e42	The representative of Torhild Bransdal, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative, Siv Mossleth, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e52	On behalf of the big business representatives Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Willfred Nordlund, Sandra Borch and myself, I want to promote a proposal for a representative on the operation of the transport of persons and goods in North Norway. On behalf of Geir Adelsten Iversen, Heidi Greni, Sandra Borch and myself, I would also like to make a proposal to take out predatory game to conserve Sami reindeer in a particularly difficult situation. In view of the major crisis in the vulnerable calving period, I ask for urgent procedure under Section 39(c) of the Storting Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e59	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will draw attention to the fact that case No. 2 on today's map has not been out in the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Rules of Procedure § 46. However, the President will propose that the matter be dealt with, and there appears to be no objection to this. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e81	In this regard, the Committee would point out that the scheme is intended to be a possibility of some financial compensation in matters where the public has done wrong and where it is not possible to obtain other cover. In 2019, 21.7 million were paid. kr in legal compensation from the State. That's an increase from the previous year of 1.5 million. kr. This is partly due to the fact that several issues were dealt with in 2019, and partly to the fact that the 2018 selection raised the level of remuneration in some types of child protection failure. The Committee notes that the overall average duration of proceedings has fallen slightly over the last few years, but that for some types of cases, it started in 2019. The progress of the procedure should be closely monitored in the future. The Committee notes that the average time of proceedings on a case-by-case basis has increased from 14 months in 2018 to 16 months in 2019. Many of these proceedings are related to the work of the professional bodies dealing with the various applications. In some cases, there may be up to 2000 documents that have been submitted and that one has to go through to assess whether there is a basis for remuneration. A certain length of procedure seems understandable to the Committee, but the Committee would point out that an additional increase in the length of proceedings would be unfortunate for those seeking justice. The rest of the adjustment refers to the payments and that the Storting has agreed that the ceiling on the payment of legal compensation is initially NOK 250000 and NOK 300000 for a particularly serious case. Payments of NOK 200000 are relatively common, while payments of NOK 250000 or more are very rare. Within the limits agreed by Storting, the selection itself can take the initiative to increase the amount of the payments, such as the payments made. did so in 2018 and 2019. Finally, the Committee would point out that not only is the amount of money in itself important but that people who have been exposed to failure from the public in childhood are being examined and given a cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e94	The last thing the rapporteur said is very important. It is very much about being heard and getting a complaint. The system is incredibly important to a lot of people, because it's about not getting any kind of harassment anywhere else, often because things are so old that they don't come under the ordinary arrangements. I have previously myself been sitting in this sample for many years and have provided compensation in several thousand cases. Strictly speaking, all the representatives here should have read some of those things, because there are actually very nasty things that are surprising that have happened in our country. When I put in this sample, we had three basic principles that led to everything we did when we gave compensation. One was that we should place a decisive emphasis on the applicant's own statement. We're not going to demand that a lawyer present this in a proper and good way, because we don't follow paragraphs. So the self-declaration is very heavy. The second was a lack of documentation. In our country, for many years, we had a pastime to maculate everything that was of evidence. This means that applicants are almost unable to find documentation to provide. But we had psychological reports where an adult person several years ago had told his psychologist that he had been sexually assaulted in childhood, and we viewed this as evidence that an assault had occurred. The last one was that in many of the cases there is a breach of death, and we assumed that the applicant should not be charged because the offender does not have an opportunity to defend himself. That he was dead should have no meaning. What's happened lately is that you've deviated from all of these principles. I get a lot of requests from people who have applied and who get a rejection because the offender is dead, or they get a rejection because the evidence is not good enough, that it doesn't hold a ten-year-old psychologist's statement because it can't be proven that it happened in childhood. I have not been told that the Storting has decided that we should change practice. These are people who talk together, they know that others have been replaced, while they are not now seen, are not heard, and are not getting a complaint. And that's the regret that weighs most heavily on them. They feel that they are not believed, while others in the same situation have been believed. I do not expect the Council of State to answer this question, but I hope she can take it with her. Is it really such that the sample can only change practices on its own keel, or have they been given some new instructions to apply the rules differently now? In that case, it should appear on the websites that we have changed the practice of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e107	Just to answer the representative of Kjønaas Kjos immediately: I have no knowledge that the committee has received some instructions from the Ministry of Justice or from the Minister of Justice, and at least not from me, but of course I will investigate the relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e112	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e129	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e136	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the matter. The Committee has examined a Document 8 proposal from the representatives of Enger Mehl and Myhrvold that the process of merging the courts in Østfold be suspended and placed in the context of the work of the Court of Justice Commission. The background to the case is the wish of the proposers for any change in the court structure in Eastfold to be seen in the context of the other work and conclusions of the Court of Justice and to be based on the principles underlying the future organisation of the courts by the Storting. The proposers pointed to several arguments for this, including: that the decision on joint management of the Halden and Fredrikstad District Courts was incorporated into a pattern in which the Court of Justice did not handle joint management decisions on the basis of the ‘special cases’ condition and a principle that the latter should be an exception rule. In addition, they pointed out that, when there are at all times the courts of sorenics who resign from their position of joint management, it is also very random which courts are placed under joint management. The proposers pointed out that this was illustrated in Eastfold by not assessing whether Halden should be subjected to Sarpsborg or Fredrikstad. The proposers indicated that one could not see that the introduction of joint management of Halden and Fredrikstad District Courts was subject to a concrete assessment. With this, the proposers assessed the fact that the merger of District Courts in Eastfold was pushed through by the Court’s assessments with the government’s approval of these. Furthermore, the proposers argued that the change in the court structure in Eastfold should not take place without a thorough and broad investigation which saw the coherence of the existing court structure in Eastfold and also in the areas outside. Thus, in the opinion of the proposers, the structure of the Court of Justice in Eastfold had to be given a broader political approach and put in place in conjunction with the rest of the work of the Court of Justice. During the Committee's work on this matter, several questions have also been raised about the merger process in Rome. Nor here is the Committee's impression that we are talking about a simple process with a well-established local consensus. In Rome, as in some other places, a larger merger has been prepared, especially because it has long advised that the government would follow the recommendations of the Court of Justice with great centralization and aggregation. Premises have changed a lot over the past few weeks, and this has led to more people expressing that the process in Rome cannot be said to be anchored in a purely local consensus either. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Progress Party, the SV, the Centre Party and the Labour Party, considers that the aggregations should be suspended. The majority believe that there must be a real local consensus if a merger is to be carried out by the Court of Justice without political treatment. The majority do not consider this to be the case for the aggregation processes mentioned above. The majority therefore believe that any aggregation of these jurisdictions and tribunals should be submitted to the Grand Duchy for consideration. The Labour Party has been clear since the Court Commission presented its first interim investigation that we do not want to centralize or to abolish the country's district courts. In the autumn of 2019, we also proposed that all decisions on joint management and mergers should be suspended until the Court of Justice has completed its entire investigation. The proposal fell. We have generally experienced little hearing for our suggestions and objections. It must be said that this was also the case when the Progress Party was in government – with a number of Ministers of Justice. For the Working Party this is not a cancellation, but a break button. We cannot pretend that we do not see and hear all the unrest both in Eastfold and in Rome. The question of future structure has also been given a new dimension, as the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Centre announced that we would not vote for the government's structural reform and proposals for new legal circles that were sent to the hearing. In our opinion, it would be better to address the issues of Eastfold and Rome-rich politics as well. I would like to recommend the setting promoted by the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e159	The title of this Document 8 proposal may give the impression that it is about law buildings in Eastfold, but it is about something much, much larger. It is now about the powers of the courts, their governance and how they are dealt with by the Stortinget. It may have started as a case of court buildings and a somewhat strange premise in which we in the Storting should go in as a judge and doubt an individual process that has taken place in Eastfold, a process that is otherwise announced and anchored, both here in the Storting through budgetary proceedings and in the government. We would also decide whether the agreements concluded between the sorenists were actually voluntary or not. As it is very common to stay in this room, we are actually going to become some kind of administrative body in a single matter. The proposers have in fact left strong and insofar as competent press groups and special interests have influence over what should be a court-martial process. They override professional recommendations, and they override Storting's own guidelines. If you think that obstruction is a good policy, if you think that obstruction is what gives many voters, then this proposal is understandable, predictable and perhaps even logical. In the course of the proceedings, however, this case has evolved. The big difference as I can see it, is that also the tracts of Rome are suddenly drawn into the drain. So it's a process that's not only supported by most people, but it's also celebrated. There is a solution that would undoubtedly give a better court of Rome, faster proceedings and better legal certainty for the audience. But without consultation, without notice and without any involvement, the court of Rome is waking up to the news that the work they have done over several years has been cancelled, or at least put on hold. When even non-scrupulous processes like the one we've seen in Rome are stopped, this is no longer about law buildings in Eastfold or in Rome. It's about the volunteer line that Stortinget has been ending up on for a long, long time is dead. This has been a foundation in the governance of the courts for a long time. They have spent time, energy and money on these processes, and although the Storting debated the structure quite fiercely, the opening up of the volunteer line has been solid in this room. This has been trusted by the courts, and today we are tearing this away under their feet. Instead, they have become, as they themselves perceive it, a caste ball in a political game. What this hall has to think about today is how this is perceived in the courts. What predictability do they have left? What confidence should they have in us and the guidelines we give? And what confidence does it look like to give to the courts? What powers do the courts now have to govern themselves? We can't let there be any doubt that the judges are taking this very, very seriously. They are exemplary in style, but under the surface it boils. The courts view what's happening now, as one of the most dramatic things they've experienced in a long time. They have called for extraordinary meetings, they say that more people consider going off in protest against the treatment they are subjected to, and they have asked for instant meetings with the parties on the Stortinget. I hope that the invitation will be answered quickly and confirmatively by all parties, especially by those parties that today take responsibility for a long way to separate the court administration in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e174	When I listen to the post of the representative Frølich, I think you might be well – let's say – serious on behalf of individuals in the areas we are discussing today. Because that's Eastfold we're talking about, and that's Romerike we're talking about. The challenge has been that, over time and through a lot of evidence, what is called a voluntary process is not perceived as something close to it locally. I do not think it is unreasonable that the Storting intervenes. Nor do I think it is unreasonable that we see it in connection with other processes that we know the government has worked with. The court commission is talking about it. The matter is on the hearing, and it is announced that it will be presented to the Stortinget. These things need to be seen in the context – everyone understands. If you have parallels that go on independent of each other, it's hard. I also think we need to agree on how to define the concept of 'freedom'. If the term "freedom" means that three sorrenprinters agree, I think we might have to do some more rounds. What's important is that we have processes that involve, build credibility, and that we gather around. That is not at all the case in the two specific cases, nor in the overall case that the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV agree that we should put ourselves at the risk of the large process, but in this context also the small ones. That's what I think we're getting very well illustrated, because it's a little bit about perspective when you register and see how the reactions are out there. When the Storting does its job and captures what is a real problem and a challenge for people out there, people of course get positive and happy about it. But I'm recording a crushing resistance from the Oslo press, which is not at all based on the actual conditions. When Gunnar Stavrum of the Nettavisen claims that the agreement between the four parties leads to that we stop savings in the order of 1 billion. SEK and SEK 1,5-2 billion. kr, I ask questions about the calculation properties, and I also ask questions about where – to say – the knowledge-based perception from the Oslo press really is. If you are looking for skills, you might want to check it out with your own skills. Before claiming that the skills out there are so poor, one should perhaps also be able to pay for one's own. For there are no significant savings, and at least not billions – and at least not the sums that the Evening Post, the VG and the Nett newspaper are talking about, with the almost contemptible tone they are talking about the consensus when we enter this room and deal with a matter that we are experiencing is not determined specifically enough in these two areas, and that we are also taking the big picture. I think that's important, and I think that's what we're going to be on. What I do not accept is the report I experience from Norwegian courts when one almost presents it as that because a dish may not be among the largest ones, it is like an automatic in that there is poor legal certainty in the case law. That's not a covering for saying. I agree that the only important reason for looking at the structure of Norwegian courts is legal certainty. That should be the driving cause. But then we know that Norway is among the best in the world on legal certainty, at least when it comes to courts. So we actually might not have the best arguments in the first place to drive this contraction. If it's only about the economy and the marginal savings we're talking about, I think you should at least be able to take a little better time, and that's what we're saying today: "rest up." So it's a pause button.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e195	Our courts have been through a turbulent and uncertain time with centralisation proposals for several rounds over several years. In the last year, a Commission work has been presented with the abolition of many rights of property as a clear conclusion. Then came a proposal from the government to merge legal circles as an alternative way to centralize and get rid of rights of way. During this time of uncertainty about the future of the courts, some courts have been discussing how it could be possible to find local solutions that could bring about this nationally-led and potentially massive centralisation of courts in the premise. Political unity between us in the Central Party, the Labour Party, SV and the Progress Party has recently decided that it oversees the judicial structure. It is then obvious that locally initiated mergers, which may be linked to the uncertainty of the future to the courts, are not carried out without the Stortinget being told about the case. This debate, with the following decisions today, is in practice a move in the emergency brake that is quite in place. The proposal for which the plurality applies is as follows: ‘The Government is asked to come to the Grand Duchy with its own case before the merger of district courts in Eastfold and in Rome may be carried out, and that the merger of these tribunals be suspended until the case has been dealt with.’ The majority listens to people today. This has been a real criticism of the processes in Rome and in Eastfold, for example. from those who have not felt heard and who are concerned about the disappearance of important services and jobs without a broad and public debate. In the case of the joint lease introduced by the District Courts of Halden and Fredrikstad, it goes into a series of similar cases where the Court of Justice does not use the law to introduce joint leases as an exception, but on the basis of the case and each of the sorenners is retired. Unfortunately, the courts have introduced joint leadership, not shielding these courts from proposals for mergers, so one might think it would be based on what both the Court and the government have said before. In the large round of mergers proposed by the government in the hearing round now in spring, such courts have been as deferred as the other courts. The centre party already put forward its first proposal in 2006 to ensure that courts can have joint rentals, and we hope that this too will be implemented soon. The process of merging the District Courts of Fredrikstad, Halden, Sarpsborg and Moss has been criticised by several authorities. because the consequences of aggregation are deficient. I want to underline the additional dimension – that many with good reason assumed that there was in any case going to be a massive aggregation of things in our country. Since it is now politically clear that this aggregation is not coming, it is correct that local processes are also slowed down or stopped altogether. Instead, the government comes up with concrete issues for Stortinget, which we can assess based on how the processes have been carried out, and what are the concrete proposals. We in the Center Party are very happy that it was possible to get multiple numbers on the Stortinget to keep the manifold structure of the District Court that we have. It is then natural for us to also contribute to ensuring that it may be possible to continue to have a diverse structure on the property courts also in Eastfold and in Rome. When it comes to the dramatic twists that the representative Peter Frölich chose on this matter, it is obvious that he and his party are talking to other judges and other people around the country than what we in the Central Party are doing. What can happen to us is a great pleasure that it is possible to reverse the constant centralization, both in terms of overarching the structure and in terms of this specific matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e215	Good morning, President, and thank you for having me come and talk about this. This may not be the very big political issue in today's political situation in Norway. We're talking about a local process, and we're talking about a matter where we actually want to put the brakes on in a local process. I will now explain why SV supports this setting, which seems to have a majority. Let's take the perspective: we believe that the courts in Norway are a national resource. That means that they're part of a state-of-the-art development in which we believe the Storting should have its hand on the steering wheel. We are very concerned that the Storting should govern what kind of architecture and structure it is in the state of law and the court structure in Norway. It shall be governed by some general principles, of course by fundamental legal certainty and by anchoring against international conventions. Services shall be as close as possible to people. It's supposed to be a downgrading. In this case, it may also be important that services and people's access to justice are equal regardless of where they live. This means that, on some kind of principle, we must insist that there should be national leadership behind the development of the judicial structure. So it doesn't have to be just local leaders. Although there may be both wise and good local objections and initiatives, this should be managed from a kind of national perspective. So it's not enough for local judges or sorenists to think this is right. Nor is it sufficient, as the Centre Party has previously proposed, that the municipalities, for example: shall have the right to veto any merger of courts. It shall be guided by overall national considerations. That was also one of the reasons why SV was involved in the majority proposal we had two weeks ago, where we rejected the government's proposal on centralisation and on creating a new court structure. On the basis of this, we expect the government to draw its proposals to the court structure and then come back to the Grand Duchy with a new structure that more closely respects the majority in the Grand Duchy that they believe to be right. From this point of view, it is not right for the courts in Eastfold and Rome to develop independently of the national level. The reason why SV now believes it is important to put this matter at risk is not necessarily because the processes that have taken place in Eastfold and Romerike have been crazy, but precisely that we want those processes to also be part of a national plan. These courts may well be merged later, but then it must be based on an overall national structure, where the fundamental principles applicable to the whole country shall also apply to those courts. I regret that the actors in Eastfold and Rome who have stood behind this process must wait, for that is what we are now asking them to do. In fact, they must wait until the government and the Stortinge have adopted an overall national structure which ensures all the interests of the judicial structure in Norway, based on some basic principles. Once those structures have been laid and the principles have been adopted in the Grand Duchy, we can continue to develop in Rome and Eastfold as well. But until then, we'll put the brakes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e232	Sometimes it's not to change anything the most extreme proposal. When you listen to the Center Party, you should think it was that if you don't make any changes, everything will be like before. But it's not, because the assumptions change along the way. This is also true of the courts of the country. They must also be developed in line with new requirements and expectations. There is a need to reduce the length of the procedure. We need to ensure quality, the environment of competence, better opportunities for specialisation and the optimal use of resources. If we are to ensure that Norway's courts continue to have high quality, strong professional environment, good accessibility, and ensure legal certainty throughout the country, we must also be open to changes in organisation and structure. Therefore, in its proposal for judicial reform, the government has proposed that all jurisdictions should be maintained, but that the judiciary should be changed to ensure better use of resources, shorter processing times, a strong environment of competence and greater specialisation in the judiciary throughout the country. It is an independent point that the professional communities of the courts are also important for the legal professional environment of the regions and professional workplaces throughout the country. The proceedings in the District Courts of Eastfold and Rome are being conducted independently of the investigation by the Government and the Court of Justice Commission, and we believe that it is wrong for the Storting to intervene in the locally initiated processes in Eastfold and in Rome. If the management of the courts, together with the local board of trust, has reached agreement and initiated proceedings on the basis of the voluntary line open to and underpinned by the Storting, national politicians should not stand in the way of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e243	I refer you to the Storting's consideration of the proposal for a representative that the process of merging the courts in Eastfold be suspended, and the position on which the case has been extended to include the merger of the courts in Rome. Let me first link some considerations to the aggregation in Eastfold and in Rome. In 2014, the Court of Justice took the initiative in a process aimed at bringing together district courts. When examining the 2016 State Budget, the majority of the Judicial Committee stated: ‘If changes to the structure are desired locally, a process of good discussions and processes must be carried out locally’. [[...]] The Judicial Committee was regularly presented with the aggregations in Eastfold and in Rome, through the budget proposal in 2019, without any comments on the aggregations. This happened in the same way as for Bergen tingrett and Kongsberg and Eiker tingrett in the state budget for 2016. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, now state in the opinion that: ‘there has been over time criticism of the process in Eastfold, where there are several people who believe that the case has not been sufficiently investigated, and also feel sufficiently heard.’ In this context, I would like to point out that the majority, 11 of 16 of the hearing bodies, gave a positive opinion to the merger in Eastfold. This is not a matter for three judges to discuss. The main argument put forward by the negative hearing bodies was that the question had to be examined more thoroughly and that the Court's investigation had to be awaited. The Judiciary Commission delivered its inquiry to Minister of Justice Jøran Kallmyr from the Progenskrittspartiet on 1 October 2019. Following an in-depth investigation, in which other alternatives were also considered, the Commission recommended merging the four district courts. The majority of the Committee justifies the proposal that there has been criticism of the processes in Eastfold. I have not noticed that there has been criticism of the process in Rome, where all the hearing bodies were behind the merger. It is therefore rather unclear to me why this process should also be suspended. Let me say something about the process, when I now with amazement see that this proposal actually gets a majority. Before I became Minister of Justice and Defence, it was the Progress Party that headed the Ministry of Justice from 2013. Under the leadership of the Progress Party, up to several state councils have called for judicial reform, and initiatives and decisions to set up a judicial commission were taken by: Minister of Justice Per-Willy Amundsen. The mergers in Eastfold and Romerike were presented to the Stortinget in Prop. 1 S for 2019-2020, submitted by then Minister of Justice Jøran Kallmyr, after prior work by Minister of Justice Tor Mikkel Wara. So it was the Progress Party that had the Minister of Justice when both proposals were sent to the hearing, and when the government decided to present this to the Stortinget. The whole process of judicial reform was initiated and initiated by the Progress Party – the same party that has been in the pulpit and argued that their own reform should not be carried out, the same party that even asked for a partial investigation of structure to deal with this separately, and that has itself initiated parallel processes in connection with this matter, when it was locally anchored. The fact that the Progress Party wanted to stop voting against its own convictions and chose to leave the government, I have great respect for. But now that you're voting against something you're actually in favour of, it's simply not possible to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e277	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e282	In the run-up to a series of mergers, joint leadership is often initiated. A number of Justice Ministers have stated here in Stortinget that joint rental should be used as an exception and only in exceptional cases. The fact that there's a high threshold for this, I think cross-political has meant is very good. What I want to ask the Council of State, which we also refer to in the vote, is what the Council of State thinks the administration of the Court of Justice has a ruling that joint leadership should be reviewed every time a court leader resigns, and whether this ruling is in line with what the Council of State, Government and Government have said.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e290	I have full confidence in the court administration. I trust that they make assessments. I have full confidence that they know the decision of the Storting. I have full confidence that they know the legal regulation related to this, and that they make their concrete assessments. That is what the independence of the Court of Justice is about, that the Stortinget makes laws and regulations, but that the Court is independent. I'm sure this is done after thorough judgements, precisely by the court, because they know what the conditions for this are. And I just trust that they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e295	In its hearing on court structure, the Court of Justice writes that over several years they have been working for a reduction in the number of district courts, without having a political impact on more far-reaching changes. I think there's reason to suspect that the lack of efforts that have been in smaller courts in general and the lack of digitisation of these courts in particular is a result of the court administration's own agenda on centralisation. They wouldn't suggest to the government to waste money in courts that they hoped they'd be able to lay down soon. Over the year, such a procedure becomes a major problem for the Domstols-Noreg. Does the Council of State think it is a good thing that the Directorate and the Administrative Board are working on their own political agenda in such a way that it goes beyond the services they have been given to manage?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e300	I think it's a pretty sad experience when from the Stortinget you're facing suspicions against the court, and when you're actually not just suspecting, but accusing the court of running politics and having your own agenda. Yes, of course the court has. The Court of Justice is our third state power. It's actually very serious to mix the first and third state powers. The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction. And then the Storting will set conditions. We now have a court structure at the hearing. I hear several people have pointed to the decision to lay that structure dead. I haven't seen any such decision, I understand it's a media play. We're working in a real way. We're sending proposals to the hearing, we're getting hearings, and then we're going to the Storting, and we're going to do that in terms of structure. So we're saying that this is right, but that's the big thing. But then Stortinget has also said that voluntary mergers will happen and can happen in parallel. So it's happened all the time in the last few years. Now you stop, and no one can explain why.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e307	I'm not sure if the Minister of Justice understood my question, because I didn't ask about the courts, I asked about the administration of the Court, that is, the administrative body that is set up to administer the courts, and the courts are the third state power. There is no claim either, I just refer to what the Court itself has written about that they have been working for several years for a reduction in the number of district courts, without having political impact, and for more far-reaching changes. It is a political agenda that is not hidden, it is very clearly said by themselves. In that picture, now that we've even got a large majority of people who have clearly said that there should be no such radical changes, it's interesting to hear what the Council of State thinks about the Court's conduct in the last few years on the political agenda they have clearly produced. But perhaps even more interesting is asking about the future of the administration of the Court of Justice as the governing body, the governing body, and the leading there, which so clearly wants centralization, and which now has to deal with a collapse that clearly says they don't want centralization – what about their future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e312	It is possible that I did not understand the question. Does the representative Klinge think that the administration of the Court of Justice and the administration of the Court of Justice should not do what they thought was right? Shall we begin to instruct them in what view they are going to have, what hearings they are going to give, what perceptions they are going to have of the work they are actually set to rule? We can't have it like that. Nor is it that the Storting has said that we should not have changes in the structure. On the contrary – Stortinget has said that we should have consultation on the structure, and then it is up to the magnification and government to come up with an attitude on how that structure should look. The proposal sent to the hearing is quite different from the one proposed by the Court of Justice Commission. I understand that there is a case here in Stortinget without having a case, but that's what we're working on, that's what's coming to Stortinget, and the Stortinget will have plenty of opportunity to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e317	I think the Council of State is well aware that when it comes to implementing reforms, you may first have to be able to describe a problem that people recognize. When you describe a problem that people recognize, you can carry out reforms. The reforms then have a basis for implementation. However, when implementing reforms that no one other than those in the capital understands, because it is practical here, but there is no understanding out there, it is probably a bad starting point for implementing reforms. And when one sees at the same time that the basis for implementing the reform based on legal certainty, which for me is absolutely crucial, is probably not there at all, because we have very good legal certainty in Norwegian courts, is it unreasonable to put in a drawer a recommendation that may come from a Commission or from an investigation, if one realizes that it is not necessary? And let me say it this way: has the Council of State never done that before necessarily agree? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e324	The number time is definitely over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e329	I realize that time won't go by if I'm going to be close to trying to answer that question. I guess the representative thought it was necessary when the Commission was set up. I guess the representative felt it was necessary when proposals for changes were submitted in parallel, both in 2016 and 2019. And I guess it was necessary when my predecessor drew another map that was presented, related to the work of the Court Commission. I just assume that my predecessors have thought that this is necessary, just as the courts themselves and the court administration for many years have thought it necessary. I'm just assuming that. I cannot answer for anything else. I don't throw this in the drawer, because I think it's absolutely necessary. It's about our legal certainty, but we have another proposal. When it comes to understanding what problems to solve out there, I have to remind you that in the case of Eastfold, 11 out of 16 hearing bodies were for – that is necessary. It was unanimous in Rome – so it is necessary. I think that's the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e336	I saw the Right Spokesman Frölich on the news last night, the rest wounded and dismayed over what it is now becoming the majority of the Stortinget. But he said something such as that no courtrooms are closed with what was initially the proposed arrangement. I realized that the representative Schytz from the left now said something similar. I do not think so, in the case of Rome. I'm pretty sure it's been communicated outside that for the part of Rome, and according to the treaty of intention that exists, there is one common property right and one location, that is a co-location. I also believe it has been communicated outside that the co-location would take place by 2024. I ask the Minister of Justice to clarify this. What's right? With what it was now up to by the court administration, would there be one or two courts in Rome?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e343	Our starting point is that courts are not laid down. Getting common management doesn't mean getting fewer courts. There's some of the whole point of setting up the judicial structure committee, which we've now sent to the hearing. There is a difference between the Commission's proposals and the government's proposals. You maintain courts, but you change jurisdictions, you get joint management, and you get better runaways. It'll be a much better liquidation for the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e348	There was no answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e354	Let's move on. This chord shift is definitely over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e361	I have to admit that I have so far believed that there was broad agreement to merge the rights of things in Upper Rome and Lower Rome. Actually, that's not true. As I have worked on the matter, it turns out that the picture is absolutely more complex than that. That is why I am pleased that it now appears to be a majority in favour of the process being suspended, and that the government has to present a case to the Stortinget, and that the Stortinget decides. I see in the Roman magazine today that the sorenist, who is now common to Upper Rome and Lower Rome, is surprised and amazed. He says that there is express support for merging the two rights of property from both employees, the police and the municipalities concerned. Actually, this isn't quite right. Then I heard the representative Frölich from the Right saying that there were now press groups and special interests winning out. If I was in doubt about what I meant about the matter, I was at least not in doubt about what I am going to vote today, after hearing the statement to the representative Frølich. Let me just say that I and the Workers' Party are not opposed to organisational changes or structural changes. But there must be good processes, and there must be good arguments for the changes. I've been involved in putting together things and what we used to call men's rights and filth. In Rome, there were originally four of these things, formerly lordships and sorrels, located on Eidsvoll, on Sørumsand, in Lillestrøm and on Strömn. In the last few years, we've had two thingies, Lower Rome-rich thingies in Lillestrøm and Upper Rome-rich thingies on Eidsvoll. Now the government and the court administration will have only one. I then ask the question, is there any advantage in having a few large dishes? Why have your own dishonour at all in Rome? Why not put it under Oslo District Court if you were to follow those reasonings? Then we would really get a robust right of object and a strong trade union environment. No, I think good anchoring is important. Both sorenists, trust-elects and rapporteurs must be involved, but the Stortinget must decide the court structure. It makes the impression that lately I have received enquiries from employees in the two district courts who have realized that there has been a strong pressure from the court administration to participate in the merger. The image is more complex than that. It is clear that one of the trade unions has been involved in the agreement, but there are also employees who have a completely different starting point and who believe otherwise. The process should therefore be suspended.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e376	A merger of the district courts in Halden, Fredrikstad, Moss and Sarpsborg will seem unmotivated and quite pointless all the time a great majority has announced that it will stop bringing together property rights in the rest of the country. The four district courts in Eastfold towns are not small district courts in the Norwegian context. Together, they serve about 250,000 people. The four district courts are also not particularly inefficient. The hold is actually on top in terms of efficiency. The merger of the district courts in Eastfold is as far manufactured as voluntary after three sorenic writers and a trade union last year entered into an intentional agreement on such aggregation. And why stop a voluntary merger? Firstly, this process does not appear to be particularly open. On the contrary, it seems rather strangely well-planned, almost like a pinching maneuver, to bring together under the radar. Why in all days would this process be decoupled from the work already undertaken by the Court of Justice? Instead, the Council of State quoted a majority remark from the Government Parties and the Progress Party from 2016, and I would quote it again: ‘If structural changes are desired locally, a process of good discussions and processes locally related to aggregation must be carried out.’ Here we are at the heart of the matter. Such good processes did not happen. Such good discussions have not taken place in Eastfold cities. The court administration is trying to make it appear that everyone is too clumsy, but that doesn't mean it's true. I've talked to both trusted judges and other judges in these court-martials who are against, I've spoken to the Bar Association, I've talked to the law-environment community in Eastfold cities, and not least to the elected people and the administrations of these Eastfold cities that are against. So it doesn't mean that this is voluntary. There is expressed strong scepticism for both process and aggregation. On the contrary, it is felt that the administration of the Court of Justice, which does not replace the pensioner, and even makes promises of job protection and additional access to resources, has driven an undue pressure to merge. It is alarming and not least unsolvable to courts which have not obtained such an agreement. It is not natural that larger units provide better courts, for example: professional. There is no evidence that major courts are more effective. There is no evidence that major courts will function better. And judges aren't in the lunch to discuss themselves until the verdict. A judge shall be independent and have an opinion in the court. I am pleased that we are now landing on an opportunity where we take into account local communities, the legal environments of the respective cities, the prosecution authorities, experts and persons who, for some involuntary reason, have to meet in court, for example. as a witness. For these, proximity is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e400	I think this debate shows that it makes sense to take a break. So I also understand the representative Frölich's disappointment, and I understand the reactions of others in the courts. Surprisingly, there is a political plurality for the Workers' Party and the Centre's previous rulings. The downturn is also great in the country. At least it shows a difference in the debate here today, where someone is very concerned about what the judges themselves think, while in the Labour Party we also think it is quite important to care about what users of the courts think and think. When it comes to the two processes we're now talking about, I don't think one can stand straight here today and seriously claim that they are well locally anchored, as the Minister of Justice also pointed out in the quotation. That is why I believe that a political discussion of the issue in Stortinget is positive. For example, in Eastfold: there are many in Eastfold Workers' Party who want a merger, that's it, and there are many who don't want it. There's concern about the process, and it makes sense to do what we're proposing. This isn't just about a discussion about legal buildings, either. I thought Right reduces this to something completely different from what it actually does. People are concerned about what is happening, when there is as much centralization as it has become under today's government. And the Labour Party was also the first party that signaled very clearly that we want a decentralised structure. Since Peter Frölich is from Bergen, I recommend that he read an article in Bergen's Official Journal as Jørn Øyrehagen Sunde, who is a professor at the Faculty of Law in Oslo, just wrote about the user perspective. There's a lot of good arguments there. We in the Labour Party are also somewhat disappointed that the proposals we have made over the last two to three years are not in the vicinity of being heard. There has been no interest in meeting the desire to deal with everything, to wait until the whole court commission is done. We've only met with shoulder straps. The Minister of Justice is quoting the previous Justice Department quite correctly, and the two issues we are discussing here today cannot be said to be locally anchored. I would like to stress that I do not suspect the Court of Justice administration for anything. I agree with the guidelines they have received from Stortinget, and I think it is challenging for the court administration too that they are not more ready. We can also do something about politics, because there should not be so much doubt about what is in the ‘local initiative’. If it is the court administration that has initiated something, it is not local. If it's local volunteer, we might have to define more clearly what it means, and it'll give us a chance if we get the cause of the Storting in a bigger debate. At the end of the day, I would say that we have not dealt with any political issues about justice in the Stortinget, but a number have gone out and clearly said what we politically mean, and then it'll be up to the government if it wants to right it or come back to the Storinget with one thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e417	I understand that the Council of State and the Government Party of the Right are'stricken and hopeless' because the Party of Advancement does not support the government in all things. Then I just have to state that the Advance Party is a party in opposition. We are guided by our party program, and our political decisions on how to deal with things that go for Stortinget, take our big group, based on our party program. So it's not any harder than that. We don't follow the Granavolden platform, it's the government that does. We are governed by our own policies. And so it's our primary policy that applies. It's not all that had to happen when we were in government – I think the Council of State is very well aware of that. She's probably never won all the fights internally in government herself. So the government is a college that agrees on how things should be handled, and I respect that. But my advice to that college is that when we start reforms, we should be able to define an understandable need that people out there – and I mean outside the capital – understand, recognize, and have a desire to support. It's not done here. This means that there is enough reform, in the extension of the big issue – which has a lot of resistance out there – and also the two concrete issues, which are obviously not anchored, based on the reactions you see locally. Then you should go back to the drawing table, and then you should think a little bit about it. It's not certain that everything is high in stone, and that's why we're just pressing the pause button today. But at least there has to be an understanding before making changes that too many out there are actually dramatic. If that’s the case – and I don’t think that the Council of State either – that when you ask for advice from a commission, from a public sample or whatever it may be, you’re obliged to follow it up, yes, there’s a lot of advice you didn’t ask for. Then there could have been a lot of strange politics by the government, and also by the Stortinget. So it's a reality that it's still happening. That's why we also see that in the specific matter the government is consulting, it's actually something quite different from what the court commission itself recommends.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e428	It is very gratifying that the process of merging Upper and Lower Roman Empires is now being stopped, and that the government must return to the Storting if one is to proceed with such a process. I noticed that the representative Frølich from the right here said instead that the process had been celebrated by most teams, and that the sour writer of Rome is apparently also of the same opinion. Well, I'd like to invite the representative Frölich and other representatives from the government to Eidsvoll – it's perhaps the biggest president who should have been in charge of that invitation to the Constitutional Council – so he could hear how the attitudes there are to merge Upper and Lower Roman Empire District Court, that one should not have a courtroom in Eidsvoll in the future, if that's what's in the process. The representative Frülich says that one should have a court-run trial. But at the end of the day, this is all about processes for which we, as elected representatives, must take responsibility. We're the ones who at last have to decide how things should be organized in the last instance. And to have created ambiguity in the process: well, on March 2nd this year, one on the Right's website could read the statements of the Council of State saying that all the thinghouses are going to pass. Then you might think that all the warehouses were going to last, including the warehouses that are in Eastfold and in Rome today. Then, for security reasons, I asked a question to the Council of State whether this was the case, and then I got the answer that when it came to Eastfold District Court and Rome-rich District Court, the question of common property needs to be investigated and dealt with in a separate process at a later stage. So it was not clear whether all the thinghouses were going to pass. That is why it is very important that we have got that question up in Stortinget now, and that one is given a clarification that that question will be resolved in Stortinget at a later stage if the government chooses to go further with that process. It is quite right that the representative Myrli pointed out, employees have not honoured this process. They have felt forced into a process. Many of them are strongly opposed, and there is strong resistance also among the elected and among us who live in Rome. We want to keep the District Courts that we have, and we are very pleased with the decision to be taken today in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e439	I think it is quite alarming that the Minister of Justice cannot answer if, after the process it was set up, one or two courts were set up in Rome. And to clarify, all of them mean one or two thinghouses, or physical location, or whatever you're going to call it. It can't be hard to understand, but I notice that there is no answer. That's why it's very important and very right that the matter is now suspended, so we get all the facts on the table, and then the Storting will come back to this. Then I fully agree with what Lene Wagschlid emphasizes. There's no consensus about this, there's different opinions, let's be honest about it. Many are too – yes, but many are also opposed. There are good arguments for aggregation, and there are good arguments against it. It is not that there is one organisation that is perfect, and everyone else is bad, whether we are discussing District Courts, municipalities, county councils, hospitals, defence structures or police structures. It's advantages and it's disadvantages, and it's not just one model that's obvious. That's why we should also spend time discussing this. Nor is it true that the municipalities are in agreement with this. The municipalities of Upper Rome do not agree with the existing Memorandum of Understanding. It's just taking a talk with e.g. Eidsvoll municipality. They don't agree with what's there. So let's be open and honest about that there's different opinions, and don't present it as that there's unison consensus out there. Then the representatives of the government parties and the government councils are ‘stricken and hopeless’ about the fact that the Storting is now putting itself up in this and even allowing itself to have opinions on what the court structure in Norway should be like. There are different opinions, so we have to spend time. Finally, let me just say that in 1022 Olav created the sacred Eidsivatinget on Eidsvoll – according to Snorre, it was at least Olav the Holy One. I guess there's a little bit of different perceptions, but the time doesn't go into it, and the interest is probably also limited, I guess. It's at least 998 years since Eidsivatinget was established. There may not have been a courthouse at Eidsvoll in all these 998 years, but Eidsvoll has long, long traditions as a place of things. In two years the Eidsivatinget shall mark the 1 000th anniversary. Then there will be a mark, and I hope that Eidsvoll at that mark will still be the place of things – still will be the place of justice. I'm pretty sure the president also thinks it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e452	The President remembers the representative Myrli that he can draw a brief remark limited up to 1 minute if he wants to elaborate further in the debate. The president reminds me once again of the Antibac stations here to reduce the risk of infection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e459	I thought I would cancel that I, or in so far as anyone else, am «scared and broken» over these news. In fact, there is nothing to be hurt or dismayed about, simply because we know very well – both we and the opposition – that this matter is coming back. Realities will catch up with us all. I think it has to be a cool existence in the opposition in a way to feel a little independent of the gravity forces and be able to position itself based on what you think is opportunistic at all times, but the truth is that reform and structural changes in the courts will force themselves forward anyway. At some point we have to see what economic realities our courts face and what procedural constraints they have for the proceedings, and then there will be changes. A little postponement as part of a game for the opposition, we're able to live well with it. I'm more concerned about the court's reactions, because they have reason to look seriously at the treatment from Stortinget. But that has to be answered by the opposition in front of the courts. I am also not surprised that the Workers' Party has taken the position they have. We have learned the recipe gradually – when they announced a few years ago that they would no longer take responsibility, make reforms, etc. – when you fear responsibility, you take a step back. We know the recipe from the Workers' Party earlier: either they point to the process, or they point to a lack of investigation. Finding someone who disagrees with a merger process is not the great art. The Labour Party has made that clear here too. They have been able to find an investigation that lies in the horizon, and will therefore postpone the decision until the investigation is completed. It doesn't make any sense that the authors themselves say it won't affect the structure, that it won't matter. The authors say that their attitude to the structure will be the same anyway. It doesn't make any sense. We just hope that there are professionals who still want to write professional recommendations to Sverre Myrli and other politicians who so far have not shown a very high degree of seriousness in the treatment of the professional recordings they have made. I'm going to admit that I was a little surprised by the Progress Party, because there's been a party that's been on the court reform for a long time, but I was very safe by Per-Willy Amundsen's posts. He says it's their program that's on the ground, and then it's fun to be able to quote from the show of the Progress Party: ‘The court structure of the day is not adapted to a modern legal society and to the requirements of specialised competence. Fewer District Courts can provide a wider range of competences and greater opportunities for individual judges to specialise.’ That should be a good promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e473	I would like to remind the representative Frölich that in this room it is not about gravity forces, but about plurals. So if under any circumstances the representative believes that the forces of gravity behind centralization, for example, in themselves ultimately win, he is probably right in that if we still have a civil government after the next majorization elections, but not if we get a political change in this country. Because if there's one thing we know, it's that with the gravity powers that Frölich's representative talks about, who's pushing on whether it's international trends or other things, we're addicted to politicians, folklore, who take political responsibility for the gravity powers that Right likes very well. The National Audit Office's report on the courts is serious. I only want to make some comments about the Workers' Party's view of future courts, for those who believe that not being for all suggestions the government comes with are to stand in the place of blame, be wrong. Clearly, we need to develop the Norwegian courts, not liquidate them. We have to take seriously that the resource situation is too bad. Here it is the government that must take responsibility for the so-called red tape and efficiency reform that has been carried out over the courts for many, many years. It means the Labour Party that we're forced to do something about it. We also think, along with a number in Stortinget now, that one has to look at other possibilities in court law in order to meet the vulnerabilities we know there. For us, there are some in the problem description that there are challenges to some places with instability, vulnerability, lack of flexibility, lack of cooperation, lack of good digital solutions, lack of good enough systems that can strengthen legal certainty for people. But there's not just one answer to that. Fortunately, this is not the case with politics. For professional advice, if there's one thing we've been shown now in the coronary crisis, it's that today's government has a good quality, and it's capable of making political decisions. I have great respect for that. I think there is a great deal of respect for governments and state councils that can make political decisions in spite of sometimes sprinkling professional advice. Of course, it's not like this, at least not for the Workers' Party, because if an administration or a commission has a vision, it has to be like this, so absolutely not. Therefore, I share my views with the representative Frülich as follows: It is certain that we will get this matter back in the Chamber. I have no doubt that the government, no matter what we say, is going to come to the Stortinget with bragging and bram and new proposals for centralization and relatively blue policy. We welcome that debate, and we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e484	We in the Center Party are quite often indebted to disagree with all the changes. It was also said in the hall today, we were just waiting for it: every time we talk about structural issues, we get that debt. But no, we're not trying to stop all the changes, but we really want modernisation – digitisation of courts is here the concrete example – new forms of cooperation in society, etc. But it's in the structural things we really mark, and we've marked each year. We think there should be good reasons for structural changes, and that one should not do it because one has a blind belief that it itself will solve all possible problems. What's so positive about the fact that the Stortinget has now said that the court structure we have in the country is going to be firm in the future, is that the courts are hopefully now getting a long-lasting rest period of work, because there's a way of how much of a day's work is going to be done, at the same time as having this threat of aggregation and change, as you don't want, but one doesn't get the desired changes, which are going on modernising and digitizing. So what I want to encourage the government to do now is to put away the disappointment, start looking a little bit ahead and use the possibilities that lie in this working room and in the positive mood that actually exists among many courts around now, because they know what's going to happen in the future. It's bad, quite at the heart of a debate, to go into a polemics with a party with which we are quite a few in the Chamber today, and will agree, but I must nevertheless be allowed to point out something strange by saying that the Workers' Party, both in the New Day 18 recent and in the Chamber today, claimed that they were the first party to oppose the centralization of property rights, and that they wanted a decentralised court structure. This is not a very surmagic comment, but I still want to point it out, because it is a little paradoxical that it is still claimed that we are totally opposed to change, and then we are not even first in this case. It's the paradox. What I'm busy about now is that Domstols-Noreg is going to get the working space that I'm talking about, and that we're doing our best not only to give it, but also to provide the resources that they need to benefit from, modern solutions in the future – the kind of changes that we in the Center Party also want to welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e496	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e513	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e520	It has been working for a long time to improve health care for children in the field of child protection. And to get proper health care, physical and mental health monitoring is important. This must be done in cooperation with several bodies. Various supervisory reports have supported the need for this, and research shows that 76 pst. children who are in child protection institutions suffer from mental illness. It is therefore good that the Ministry now has two separate care and treatment institutions for children who need long-term care outside the home, while they are in great need of mental assistance. That's a good contribution. What we are discussing here today, however, is the legalisation of health studies when the state has to take care of children, and fortunately there is a lot of positive in this regard. The Ministry of Children’s and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Family Care have recently cooperated very well and have been entrusted with several missions to the Directorate of Health and the Directorate of Children’s, Youth and Family Affairs with a view to improving the provision of services to children in the field of child protection and strengthening intersectoral cooperation. A study on the need to monitor children in the field of child protection has now been completed together and how this should be followed up for the purpose of law enforcement. The council has said he will follow up on this. So in this way, this Document 8 proposal is very good, it focuses on the health of children in child protection, but it's also a proposal that can tell you that the department is doing a lot of good, and it's going to follow it up. Because, of course, child protection and healthcare have not always cooperated well. Often the child has fallen between two chairs. In addition to this cooperation, which has now been strengthened, there is also a requirement for all child protection institutions to have a health care provider to ensure cooperation between municipal health and specialist health services. So there's targeted action in place. A digital training programme on mental health has also been established to strengthen competence, and a package of better and systematic cooperation has now been completed. So we're going in the right direction. Several programmes have also been developed, including: a model called CARE, Children, that Risk Evaluation, which the Health Directorate is now assessing is to be implemented in the field of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e533	Thanks to the Center Party that has promoted this proposal, which has been concerned with the health of children in the protection of children for a long time. This proposal really concerns and points out that the rights that children currently have, which the State is obliged to give, are not being followed up. This is worrying, and that means that children who have a high level of assistance need are not able to meet the legitimate requirements they have for both investigation, treatment and follow-up. Legal certainty is that the State should fulfil and make every effort to implement its obligations. Children and families in child protection are among those in Norway who face the greatest challenges of living. It's nothing new. The last study of this is that I think it was done approximately. in 2007. And we know that there is a distorted distribution of measures in relation to the background of families – both language barriers, cultural background and economic and socio-economic background. So it's here as in other parts of society: those who have the least resources and the most needs, tend to go outside. We've always been concerned with bringing in the somatic perspective, because children in child protection have a lot of symptoms, and they have different symptoms that can be misinterpreted, either to be psychic or just to be somatic. That is why we are very pleased that the proposal also deals with the somatic part of healthcare. The Foster Home Association delivered a consultation opinion and describes it as a public concern failure that society is unable to provide the children most in need of healthcare and welfare services in a better way. The Children’s Ombudsman took the initiative for a letter to the government a while ago, where lack of health care was pointed out. In the hearing, the Children’s Ombudsman also states that it is important that in all cases where child protection assists the family, health investigations should be carried out. We also promote a proposal to this effect – that there should be health studies in all parts of the child protection service, and that this should be lacking. I'm dealing with the proposals that the Workers' Party and other parties are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e550	The representative Kari Henriksen then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e555	I am very pleased that it is announced that the CARE project, which we have come to know in depth in the committee and among other things. got very good information from, now to be followed up. I must also stress that I am very proud of our former State Council Solvency Horne of the Advancement Party, which took a special boost when it came to focusing on health in child protection. Some of the bets were mentioned by committee leader Kristin Ørmen Johnsen, but we have to admit that there is a way forward. I partly agree with the Children's Ombudsman, who has previously pointed out that this obligation is here today. We have a government council that has now taken an initiative towards Buffdir in cooperation with the Health Directorate and is investigating a proposal to legislate the obligation of child protection to ask for the monitoring of the child's mental and somatic health. It's important. I also think we should notice in some of the comments that came to just this specific proposal. These included: from a part of the organisations with user voice. They were simply afraid that this would be an urgent proposal in which these children who already felt like throwing balls in the system, would once again get their demands and regulation that one did not know what to really use for, down above their heads. That is why the Progress Party today is not going to support the proposals that are being promoted by the Centre Party and the Labour Party, precisely because this is about listening to the children. The children have been very clear in their speech that this needs to be investigated and done in a proper way so that they can actually get the best possible help. So it's at least a explanation of vote on what the Progress Party is going to do today. I would also like to stress the concerns of the Fosterhämsföreningen and their needs. They have also stressed over many years that the lack of health care has actually led to, among other things. a number of unintended movements. The fact that using such a tool could perhaps go into the family before things escalate will also be a very, very important prevention measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e572	The reason why the Centre Party is promoting this proposal is that we believe that it is necessary, through legislation, to ensure that the somatic and mental health of children is carried out in the context of all care acquisitions. We must ensure that the child’s need for special follow-up and treatment can be identified already at the time of taking care. Indeed, there is evidence of a high incidence of mental illness in children in child protection institutions and foster homes. As much as half of children in foster homes have mental disorders. Research results from the Regional Knowledge Centre for Children and the Young West found that 51 pst. of children in foster homes had one or more mental disorders. And, perhaps even more worrying, results from the research project Psychiatric Health of Children and Young People in Child Welfare Institutions, carried out that the Regional Knowledge Centre for Children and Young Middle Norway, found that a total of 76 pst. — three quarters — of children in child protection institutions have had one or more psychiatric disorders in the last three months. The most alarming thing in that study was actually that only 38 pst. have received health care from specialist health services for these mental disorders. Clearly, children in child protection do not receive the health care they require. I note that the Council of State in its reply to the Committee refers to the fact that it has now been commissioned by him to investigate what we are proposing today, after we, in the Central Party, promoted this proposal in October. I notice that the Council of State will not fully conclude whether it will be legalised. However, the Central Party believes that it should not be necessary to wait for a new investigation, as the need for early detection and follow-up of health problems in children in child protection is so great and well documented now. It was also evident when the Centre Party held a seminar on child protection here at Stortinget in autumn, where most of the parties in the Committee were present. Then we got politicians a real rinsing bucket from the Children's Ombudsman, who came from the courts, and who were almost shocked that such a screening often did not take place until the child ended up in court. What emerged from several actors in the field of that seminar inspired me and the Central Party to present this proposal – a proposal that was otherwise well received by hearing bodies such as the Foster Home Association, UNICEF Norway and that child ombudsman. I almost dare not think about how many unnecessary and not to talk about faults and harmful measures and decisions that have been taken against children you have not known the health status of. That is not the way we can do it, and I expect the Minister's investigations to conclude, as quickly as possible, in line with this proposal – which unfortunately has been voted down – and that he will conclude quickly that we need law enforcement. In conclusion, I would like to state that in the Central Party we support the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV today that the government ensure that health services follow up all children, not just children's protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e589	A child – and the whole human being – consists of all that we have of heart and soul and body and teeth. A little lion's tooth, as these children often are, are the most vulnerable we have. As a foster mother over 20 years, I know that we're failing, that overnight we have a child who's never been to a dentist, who's never taken a blood sample, and who's never been asked how it's inside. Then we've failed. If there's one child, there's enough for us to have to put in place a legal regulation that says that all children, including children's children, are taken seriously for the whole human being. Several of these children carry a luggage of good and evil, and it's not without reason they're called lion teeth. But the mental health of these children cannot be monitored three years after they came to foster homes, when it turns out that what they were carrying is suddenly flourishing. For that flower dies – a child who has never been to a dentist, and who has to pull 22 teeth because they're rotten, they don't put on, they don't like school, they have language problems. It's a problem. These children need all the protection and care they can get. SV refers to the Working Party and SV's proposals at all points.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e600	Every day we work in the Christian People's Party so that children can grow up safely, preferably in a family of caregivers who see them, who love them and support them through the ups and downs of life. Children need stability and routine in their lives, because in this way they become safe adults, who in turn give love and security to their children. The Christian People's Party is committed to facilitating families to stay together. That's why we have, among other things, have been offered a life course for first-time parents. But when families break cracks and children cannot live with their caregivers for different reasons, a good safety net is needed. We have to get in early with reliable relief measures, so that the families get back on their feet. If relief measures are not helpful and it is not best for the child to be in his/her biological family, child protection must take action and take care of the child. In order to provide children with the best possible help, careful examination of their health needs is absolutely necessary. This is especially true of the children who have experienced care failure, for many of these will naturally strive more than the children who do not. These children’s challenges are often complex and complex, and in the same way that a hand-held patch does not help if the child has broken foot, the measures do not help if they do not meet the child’s health and care needs. It is this issue that is raised in this proposal. Therefore, the intention is good and very relevant. Like the proposers, we are concerned that procedures need to be ensured so that the child's health and care needs are met in a much better way than they are today. As we heard in Minister of Child and Family Ropstad's statement on Tuesday, the government has already taken a number of measures in this area, which, overall, will contribute to the identification of children and young people in the field of child protection for rapid, necessary health care. The Council of State has also entrusted Bufdir, in cooperation with the Health Directorate, with the task of examining a proposal to legislate on the obligation of the Child Welfare Service to ask for the monitoring of the child’s mental and somatic health, as well as a corresponding obligation on health and care services to provide such monitoring. This investigation is now ready. So rather than voting in favour of this proposal, we want to get a broader understanding of the needs of children, so that we can make the best possible effort overall. The help we give children in vulnerable and vulnerable situations must be the best, because it deserves our children. We therefore vote in favour of the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e615	As many others, I would also like to thank the representatives for an important proposal. Children in child protection are often in a very vulnerable situation. They have experiences that can affect both their physical and mental health. It's very important that those in need of help get caught up quickly, and that they get comprehensive and organized help. Like all children, children in child protection are entitled to health care. Unfortunately, we know that child protection and health services have not always cooperated well enough with children in child protection. Therefore, a number of measures have been taken by the government to strengthen cooperation between child protection and mental health protection. Bufdir and the Health Directorate developed a package for the monitoring and investigation of mental health and drug use in children and young people in child protection, which is to be extended to include somatics. This is important in order to ensure that children in child protection can receive the necessary health care in a timely manner. The proposers wish to legislate for health studies to be carried out on the somatic and mental health of children in relation to all care acquisitions. I have already commissioned Bufdir, in consultation with the Health Directorate, to issue a proposal to legislate on the obligation of child protection to ask for the monitoring of the child’s mental and somatic health, as well as an obligation for the health and care services to provide such monitoring. The Directorates delivered their investigation on 4 May this year. They recommend the statutory health monitoring of children whom the protection of children is considering moving out of the home. But they specify that this requires further investigation. There are different models for multidisciplinary child monitoring. A multi-disciplinary test has been carried out using a model called CARE, which is currently showing good results. Sweden has its own model of health studies, and there is a survey model that is currently used to conduct medical studies at the State Children’s Hospital. The experience gained from these different models needs to be further assessed in order to identify the best offer for children in the field of child protection. I am pleased that we have received this investigation from the Directorates. This is something both I and the Minister of Health have been concerned about. Together, we will now consider how we can offer the best possible offer to the children. It is important that the child protection service has a good knowledge of the child’s situation and health, both in order to find the right place for the child and in order to provide good follow-up. We therefore need to consider carefully how health monitoring can be carried out, so that the children get a good offer and the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e629	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e634	Fortunately, now I got a little more meat on my leg as to how far you have come with the investigation that came after we promoted this proposal. What I then want to clarify is: now it is recommended a law, but you need more investigation. Does that mean that there's a law enforcement, but you have to figure out how to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e639	Thank you for an important question. It is clear that that recommendation is, as I said, that one should introduce such a mandatory health study. At the same time, they are clear that one must determine what will be best for the young. That's why we have to do those investigations, and then, of course, we have to make assessments, based on costs, etc., on how this can be done in the best possible way. That's why I can't stand here and promise that it will, but this is something that both I and the Minister of Health are very concerned about, because it's about giving the vulnerable kids the best help possible. As many people have experienced today: when there have not been health studies around, one knows that one has not revealed things that one could reveal at a much earlier time, in order to help the kids. So independently of this, there's a lot of other things that I was in my post that we're working on to make sure the kids get health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e644	What the minister says is good and understandable. I understand the logic. But what I have to stress is the pace. Because while we're standing here discussing whether it's going to be so and so many more investigations, or whether it's going to be legalized, there's still a lot of kids who are being taken care of by our child protection who don't get that screening, and as a result of it gets wrong, are being put on the wrong institution, and who aren't being met as my colleague from SV described from the pulpit, which was a lot to listen to. What can we expect tempofully here? When does the Council of State think that all the investigations he wants are clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e649	Now we have just received the report – as I said – but I thought it was important for Stortinget that I told you what it says. Bufdir has published that report, and I recommend that reading. I just have to be allowed to work on it. It is also a little about the competences needed to carry out the investigation. Because we must not get there either – as the representative Hemdal was about to do – that we simply deal with something urgently, which means that a person lands on a model that does not actually give the kids the screening and the help that is right. But I can promise the representative, Sem-Jacobsen, that this is something I'm very concerned about, and I'm very happy to see that the Minister of Health is also very committed to. At least that means that we're going to stress these deadlines to try to get something out as fast as we can. But once I've said that, I also want to say that kids in child protection have the same right to health care as everyone else. Therefore, it is already a major responsibility for carrying out these screenings and providing the health care they need to young people. I can also say that we are working to ensure that the kids get met.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e656	This is a little follow-up to the question from the Center Party. I see it takes time. But municipal politicians also have a very great responsibility for child protection. We also see that in the matter we are going to debate next week. I think it is very good that we now have a case that we have to report back to the local authorities. I have actually been in situations where I have met local politicians who are not aware that they are responsible for child protection. It's terrible, terrible scary. So my question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State take an initiative towards the municipalities and remind them that children actually have the right to health care, and that something can be done before any new law comes into force?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e661	I thank you for an important commitment, and I can well reveal inside information that the representative Hemdal has stressed a lot of this with state reports and that the municipalities are actually going to get an overview of the state of child protection in the past. That is why I am pleased that, as the rapporteur, she has put together the Committee behind an important proposal. I can already stress that I encourage the municipalities to take that responsibility very clearly. As I said in my post, we also work with different package sequences etc. to ensure that children receive good health care. And it's very important when you're going to give vulnerable young people help, and when child protection is going to get into these cases and assess a takeover, that one actually sees the needs of the kids. It is therefore essential that municipalities also carry out health investigations. So this is very important, and I'm glad that there are many municipalities that take that responsibility. Unfortunately, the results also show that there are too many children who do not get the health screening and the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e668	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e685	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines with replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e692	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough presentation and review of child protection. It's important to have a holistic perspective. Often child protection is discussed fragmented, with individual things, but it deserves a good review, which we have got here. Let's say it's very good in child protection. We have a lot of skilled employees who make a lot of effort. Many children get good help. Many measures have been put in place in the field of child protection in recent years, both to improve skills and to develop good systems. The Committee considered two days ago parts of the new Children’s Act coming. It is both a matter of extending the limitation of supplementary protection to 25 years, and that municipalities are to deal with a case of child protection annually. The students are required to have a conversation process with the parties to a child protection case where there is a reason for a transfer of care. I appreciate the fact that the Council of State is honest when you talk about the challenges we actually have in child protection. The area of child protection is conflicted. It is especially when the child’s best interests conflict with the wishes of his or her parents. Parents will be a strong party to a case, and it is therefore important to ensure that the best interests of the child take precedence in all contexts and actions. That is why we are promoting proposals to incorporate the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the Children's Act and the Child Protection Act today. I'll come back to that a little bit. Cases in Norwegian Child Protection have been tried in EMD. The criticism from the EMD has mainly been directed at the proceedings and decision-making bases of child protection and justice, not the Child Protection Act itself. In particular, the Court of Justice has criticised the fact that reasons for the choice of different measures, the lack of sufficient resources and the failure of the objective of reuniting the child with its parents in the decision-making process. I therefore look forward to the participation of both the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights and the University of Bergen in the assessments to be made in the treatment of the Child Protection Act. It's important to get a review there. The Council of State states in its statement that institutions report an increase in the number of children with complex needs. We know about children who have been moved many times between foster homes and between institutions. It's totally devastating. It is important that these children are given tailor-made measures and have high crews around them. There has also been a debate on so-called exclusive measures, the isolation of children in an institution or in a house. I am pleased that the Children's, Youth and Family Directorate is now going through the use, and that it is constantly working to improve the quality of the institutional service. As I mentioned in my previous article, two special institutions have just been created to provide the best care for children who need this, and who have great needs. But I still think that we don't have enough knowledge about how we've organized that part of child protection where the state has to take over the care and children end up in institutions. Several health - care reports have demonstrated that the rights of the child have not been adequately respected. It is mentioned that children are not given enough information, that they are not given an opinion before decisions are taken, and the right to privacy is not good enough. This makes it impossible to figure out what's best for the child, because children don't come out with their story and tell how they really do. That is why I am concerned that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child can clearly describe how this should be done. It contains a number of objectives in which the best of the child is put forward, including: they shall be heard, the child shall be heard and the opinions expressed. A research report prepared on behalf of Bufdir shows that four out of ten studies do not talk to the children. I take up the proposal from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party that the UN Children's Convention be incorporated into the Children's Act and the Child Protection Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e711	The representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e716	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Children's and Family Affairs for changing his mind and still choosing to give a statement to the Children's Protection Stortinget. Then I would like to stress, as the chairman of the committee did, that there is a lot of good in child protection, and that all the success stories naturally don't get attention in the media. Employees are making great efforts for many children and families, and progress is being made on the basis of the knowledge of former child-restraint children, employee organisations and good professionals. But yet, for many children, it is not getting what is absolutely necessary help from society when adults around them fail. There is a manifest system failure with insufficient legal certainty. I have to say it is reassuring that the Council of State and the Government do not seem to acknowledge the seriousness of this failure. The serious power position of child protection must be recognised. Several reports and the many issues raised by Norwegian Child Protection in the EMD show serious system failures and the need to develop systems that strengthen legal certainty and thereby provide a basis for increased trust. Too many despaired parents and children experience that the state grossly violates their human rights. And it's urgent. These families have less time than the Council of State. Taking a child from his parents is the most dramatic coercive intervention a country can take, and must be strictly controlled. The Workers' Party's concrete proposals for improvements and reinforcements have so far not won the government's hearing. The Council of State states in its statement that child protection cases have become a burden of reputation for Norway. It's not the things that are the load, it's the system. If we are to succeed in improving the reputation, human rights must be strengthened for parents and children. In order to strengthen legal certainty, we propose an application-based system for experts, clearer requirements for lawyers who contribute to child protection cases, increased user involvement and that urgent and emergency cases should always be subject to second-hand assessment by an external body. We will also propose setting up an expert committee to review legal certainty in all parts of Norwegian child protection. The aim is to strengthen legal certainty in the general field of child protection and to assess EMD cases in particular. The systemic failure of child protection is also about serious differences in offers depending on place of residence, ethnicity, culture and class. Research shows that families with high levels of living stress and challenges due to poor economy and language barriers do not meet in the same way as high-educated families. The fact that families with different cultural backgrounds and our own indigenous people do not receive the same offers as others is also a serious legal security problem. We fully support the strengthening of education and skills as proposed by the government, and the proposals under consideration for the next week. But that doesn't change the need for more employees in municipal child protection. Several employees are a prerequisite for success. I noticed that the Council of State said the following in the statement: ‘The opposition has repeatedly pointed to the introduction of a standard of manning and the designation of funds for several positions as the main means of enhancing the quality of child protection.’ – It is good that the Council of State has taken note of the opposition’s repeated proposal to increase staffing by more than one post. What surprises me is that he doesn't mention that the opposition's point of view is shared by the Children's Ombudsman, the Children's Protection Organizations, employees' organisations and the Heirs Campaign. The need for more staff is not a sort of fix opposition idea; it is carried out by all actors other than the government parties. Vulnerable children and families who are struggling often need qualified and good adults with enough time to create the confidence that we all believe they will have and that they will be able to establish, prevent well and develop offers adapted to the individual child. It is nice that the Council of State now mentions that he is dealing with the Storting decision to strengthen public and non-profit child protection at the expense of the commercial. For the Workers' Party, each child and family is unique. Child protection is not suitable for unit prices, tenders, commercial operations and profit motives. Appropriations for the protection of children should be used for the development of better child protection, not for commercial use. Finally, earlier this month we were introduced to the report ‘It was not just holiday’, which has been handed over to the government. This is at least the third report dealing with children who are left abroad against their will. The report describes cruel experiences, to which absolutely no children should have been exposed. This report requires immediate action. I look forward to hearing what immediate action the Council of State will take. – In doing so, I refer to the Labour Party’s proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e749	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has thus drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e754	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good and thorough presentation. It was nice that we got this in Stortinget. I also have to say that the commitment seems real, as many of us do here in the hall, both for the children and for the families who need help. Like the Council of State, I would also like to stress that persistent negative attention could lead to some people who are in need of help refusing to make contact. It has become a challenge for people working in child protection to work, and for people who could really have needed early dialogue with child protection in order to get help, not to dare because the word "child protection" has become as stressful as it has become. It is unfortunately because it is individual things that have been handled terribly badly. For those who don't get the right help, or for those who feel that their rights are being set aside, it's a very small comfort that most cases are handled in a good way. We have no children to lose, and no families are to be neglected or treated badly. When we discuss child protection, we often focus on things that don't work, and that's because we all want to help – not least with the problems, but also at the right time. Of course, we get frustrated when we hear about children and families who feel that child protection is something quite different than a help. Report on the report has shown us where the faults are, how the failures happen, and how the betrayal has been great. This is actually life. It's the life of a childhood and what you take with you throughout your childhood. It's your family. It is clear that we must take it very seriously in this Chamber. But I also have to look at the municipalities once again. As a municipal politician in Bergen, I took the initiative to have a review of individual matters in Bergen, where child protection errors were committed – to great political frustration for some of the other parties. Fortunately, we got a majority in the city council, and we see the result today: quite serious cases. What might be more frightening is that initially the City Council in Bergen wanted to just put this report in a drawer. It might say a little bit about the attitudes of some municipal politicians. A little while ago, I had a conversation with the rapporteur in Samnanger, a municipality right outside Bergen. I want to believe that most people in this room have got what happened in Samnanger. The words I want to use are simply not parliamentary expressions that can be reproduced from this pulpit, so I'm going to try to say it in a nice way: what has happened in Samnanger is a terrible example that all politicians and municipalities should learn from. I must commend the politicians who have dared to address this. I know that the politicians in Bergen who tried to lift this up, the politicians in Samnanger who wanted to dig more into this, met quite strong forces from the trade union community and also from other politicians who just didn't want the child protection to be lost in the seams. I think the biggest bear service that politicians can do to us is that when we know that it's going to be wrong, we don't dare to investigate why it's been that way, and what you can learn from the mistakes that have been made, which means that you can actually get better. What I really want to end this first post with is simply that we have to dry up on the politicians who dare to peck in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e769	Child protection is an important, large, difficult, versatile, complex and painful field, including for us politicians. If our child protection fails, it can have extremely serious consequences, and that's our responsibility. I think that our child protection is of the best in the world, and that it does a lot of good and proper work around the country in our child protection. It also pointed out in its statement, which we are debating today. However, the Council of State had to admit that there is a lot that is really not good enough in a lot of areas, such as child protection errors in cases for which we have been convicted in the European Court of Human Rights, that there are major differences in the quality of child protection between municipalities, and that a whole range of supervisory reports have pointed to quality and structural challenges, including: in the case of interactions between different services at different administrative levels. Too much of the help is provided, unfortunately, fragmented and inadequately adapted to the needs of the child and the family, and there have also been shocking revelations in parts of the facility. Not least, the media has revealed many terrible child protection stories where I believe our child protection has failed. Failures and errors, and with that damage, are also documented in many other supervisory audits and reports. In addition, employees have recently mobilized to point out everything that is not working from their point of view, and foster families are struggling with their territory being unregulated. At the top comes the challenges of our child protection not having all the world's reputation internationally a day. That so many faults and evil fates are revealed in child protection, naturally weakens the trust in child protection, and that is dangerous. Because we have to trust a child protection population, otherwise it'll be even harder both to drive and to recruit for good child protection. Crowding confidence in the population is probably also a result of the great mobilisation on social media against our child protection by people who, for various reasons, want to criticise it. I know that many people can have good reasons to criticise child protection and think their voice is very important, but unfortunately a lot of the criticism in such forums is hateful, conspiratory and full of serious accusations, which in my opinion does not contribute constructively to the job of improving our child protection, and which also affects Norway internationally. I have now illuminated some of the things that lie in child protection, and in my opinion it is too much that lurks far too many places until I was reassured by the Council of State's statement, even though he weighed all the work done to improve the situation. Much of it is well and good, but we are doing far from enough, and I experience that changing governments, including the red-green, have spent a lot of time on firefighting in this field, although there have been reforms and legal work in progress. I really feel that as a national parliament we need to step up and lift this field with its far too many challenges much more and better, in common. Because even though I know that the Council of State and all the parties in the Chamber are really burning to improve our child protection, I don't think we're going to get it fast enough to continue like this, with investigations of individual fields, followed by some more or less effective measures to improve the worst findings, i.e. fire-fighting. We therefore need to set up an independent review committee as soon as possible, which can carry out a comprehensive and thorough review of the whole area of child protection, as the Befring Committee did 20 years ago, and which I submitted on Tuesday. If there is one sector that needs such a review now, it is. We politicians, as the representative Silje Hemdal said, must not be afraid to get all the facts on the table in such a serious field, both wrong and missing. We just have to be happy to then get recommended by independent reviewers what we should do. These will, of course, be able to rely on all the reports already carried out in some areas in the past, and at the same time see them in context and provide further investigations in other areas, and — very importantly — look at the EMD cases and cases with independent eyes. I believe that such an investigation commission will raise the issue of child protection politically and not least strengthen confidence in the child protection policy of the population, because that is what is needed. I therefore hope that both the government and government will see that we are receiving such a comprehensive review report on the table, is what we need to be able to do more than operate with fire-fighting. The children concerned deserve it, their families deserve it, the employees of the child protection system, who would also get very independent commendation, it deserves the foster families and those who care for the children in the institutions, and it deserves the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e786	One of the most stable flowers found in any garden in Norway is the lion’s wand. That's why, because of their beauty and strength, the most vulnerable children among us are called the lion satellites. I would like to thank the Council of State for a good and thorough presentation. It's especially important right now. SV is pleased with several of the measures taken in the case of covid-19, and in particular the possibility to contact helplines and chat services all day. It's great that you've come to the conclusion that it's going to apply for the year out, but we hope it will apply for many years to come. It's not between 2:00 a.m. 8 and 16 it burns, it might as well be between 8 and 16 it burns. 16 and 8 – at night – for these children. Knowledge gives you the opportunity to do things right, and it's especially important when you're working with the lion satellites. The Korona crisis has seriously affected children and young people, with closed schools, kindergartens and recreational services and strong restrictions on social contact. It is especially demanding for children and young people in vulnerable families. When the families wear out, the parents lose the job or get laid, the child is hit hard. Many children and young people were subjected to violence and abuse in close relationships even before this crisis. Many report major mental problems. In addition, the latest figures from 2018 showed that more than 110 000 children live in poverty. This figure has most likely increased through 2019 and the current economic crisis, and it will lead to an explosion in the number of poor children. We know that very many of the vulnerable children come from these families. That's why this image of a lioness is complex. It can have strong roots, long roots, and beautiful, large flowers. It can also be small and short, but it doesn't give up. As a foster mother, I have seen merciless weekdays where a six-year-old opened the refrigerator 50 times a day to be convinced that there was as much food in that refrigerator every time he opened it. It took weeks before he realized that it was a reality. The studies carried out by the SSB on who is hardest hit by the crisis clearly show that those with limited resources are clearly overrepresented. There are considerable differences between municipalities in how these flowers and families are followed up. We already see that many municipalities are struggling with the economic consequences of the pandemic. SV has previously promoted a crew proposal for an increase over a four-year period in order to ensure that the escalation of child-restraint workers could be what it should be. Freedom is not at these times to transfer funds to free income, it is to designate these funds to the children and the lions who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e801	Many families have had a more difficult everyday life in the cold water of the Corona situation, and we have not yet come out on the other side. It's going to take time before everything gets all right again. The Christian People's Party is very concerned about the families who were already vulnerable and fragile before the Korona, as these have a greater chance of collapsing when they are exposed to another impression. At the same time, we are also afraid that many families that have worked well up to now have been exposed to a turning point that can potentially have significant consequences. For example, the turning point may be: one of the family caregivers has been affected by the virus or the family head loses his job. In this way, families that are basically robust can come into crisis. The Christian People's Party is occupied with helping these families get back on their feet, and preferably in even better condition than before the coronary virus hit us. With this hindrance, I am pleased that the Minister for Children and Family gave a good and thorough presentation to the Stortinget on Tuesday about the current situation in the field of child protection. Child protection is one of the most important safety nets we have just for families and children in crisis. The importance of a good care system cannot be stressed enough. One child who experiences a bad childhood is one too many, just because a good childhood lasts life out. A child who has grown up with love and security passes this on to his children, and so does good care for generations and has enormous aftereffects. Children have a large inherent potential, and it is the job of adults to make sure that the framework is put in place, so that children have this potential. Today's children are adults of the future, and they are the ones who are going to carry on the job we've started, among other things. addressing some of today’s major challenges, such as the climate crisis and the refugee crisis. In other words, good care is vital for the individual child, and also for the world society as a whole. That is exactly why I am pleased that we have Minister of Child and Family Robstad at the wheel of Child Protection. With the new Child Protection Act and several other measures, the government is now making sure that an increased number of children are seen and have a good upbringing. Not least, I am glad that we have so many good people and professionals working closely on the children around the municipalities – in child protection, at school and in kindergarten. They're doing a fantastic job, and we should pull them out a lot more often than we do. At the same time, we cannot sweep under the carpet that child protection in Norway has challenges. The child-restraint workers are just as good as the system in which they work. Here, politicians have an important job: to ensure that the system is as well organized as possible for families to stay together, and that children in vulnerable and vulnerable situations are given proper help at the right time. Early efforts are crucial if we are to give children a good upbringing. As underlined in the presentation, we need to strengthen prevention measures and make them more accurate, so that the challenges experienced by families are addressed at an early stage and before taking care becomes a fact. In other words, I am glad that the government's goal is that as many children as possible can grow up in their own family, because their parents are the most important caregivers in the child's life. Early intervention and prevention were also a key point when Ropstad referred to the new Child Protection Act, which aims to increase legal certainty for children. I think it is good that he also here brings forward the guiding principle of the importance of the network and the resources of the child and the family. It is important both to be able to take action well adapted to the needs of individual children and families and to take care of the child’s relationships if there is a need for out-of-home action. We also need to strengthen the quality of services across municipal borders, for where the child lives in the country is not to be critical of how well the child is helped. Several reports have pointed out that this is a challenge, and now it is addressed. The family as base pillars, good and accurate relief measures, early intervention – repairing is so infinitely more expensive than prevention. That's why the Christian People's Party is committed to strengthening families in every way we can. The Council of State statement shows that the government has great ambitions to improve the quality of care in the field of child protection. We need that, not least because the coronary situation has revealed how important the family is at good and bad. Good care is vital, for the big community, for the community, for the families and for the individual child.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e824	I would like to thank you for your contributions and for your good discussion. It was the representative of Sem-Jacobsen who began with the description that we have among the world's best child protection, but even one of the world's best child protection can be better. I'll do that in full. As I said in my presentation, that's why we're so dedicated to implementing all the measures we're doing, because we want to improve child protection for the best of the vulnerable kids. I'm going to try to answer a little bit about the different posts that have been. The representative Mr. Örmen Johnsen raised the need for quality and good institutions and to avoid moving, whether it's in foster homes or it's in institution. I fully share that commitment. As I also said in my statement, there are some of the most vulnerable who end up in foster homes and not least in institutions. It's hugely important that we get a better knowledge base, and that we get even better at giving them the offer they're going to have. She also raised the issue of proposal No. 1 on the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Law on the Protection of Children. I fully share the commitment that is being promoted. It is quite natural that the proposal for a new Child Protection Act, as well as the subsequent child law, should be in line with the principles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I'm already putting heavy weight on that and I'm going to follow up. To the representative Kari Henriksen: I get to say first that I am happy that she says that it is doing very well. We'll take that with us. Then I am also pleased that the Workers' Party is promoting various proposals, and has done so over a long period of time, because it also shows a willingness to make changes and improve child protection. I will try to review some of the proposals that the representative refers to and raises. At the same time, I would also say that it's a little demanding, when there's such a big dilemma as there's in a field like this, that one does it by solving suggestions in the hall. As regards proposal No: 2, on the introduction of quality requirements for lawyers, etc., I would just like to say to Stortinget that in the work on new child protection laws we have looked at changes that can open up to providing information about lawyers who are well qualified in child protection matters. This is something we're working on, maybe in a slightly different way, but at least it's being followed up in new child protection laws. Proposal No. 3, to review appeals and assess the criteria for how often a case can be appealed, is also a topic that we look at in connection with new child protection law. Proposal No. 4, which concerns the emergency decisions and the second assessment of an external body: I just remind you that in the emergency decisions it is absolutely essential – when it is urgent – that action be taken quickly. That is why we do not have time for large processes either. There are quality mechanisms today – it is approved by the county council, and there is also an appeal. Proposal No. 6, which is about user involvement: I just have to admit that I'm a little unsure about what's really going on. It's legal participation. Bufdir has user advice, or a selection. If this is about a user council in the municipalities, I would at least claim that it should be investigated before any decision is taken. One also has a lawyer for both parents and children. Proposal No. 7, on a separate sample that relates to the judgments in the EMD: I would also like to remind you that the Supreme Court has just interpreted three of the EMD judgments. It's also an important interpretation that I'm going to send out to the municipalities to follow up the important objections and learning points we have. The EMD has also raised a case for large-scale handling, and we – as I mentioned in the statement – anchor two. So here's something that evolves all the time. As the representative of Ørmen Johnsen also mentioned, this is part of what the Norwegian Institute of Human Rights and the University of Bergen are helping us to ensure, as I said in the statement, that the new Children's Protection Act incorporates these aspects of human rights into this work. So I'm not sure if a sample is what makes the matter the best. Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen was involved in a review committee. This is not a completely new proposal. I just want to remind you that we are making a number of changes that I think are very important to do, and then, since a representative proposal has come, we are going to be able to take that discussion at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e850	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e855	How will the government ensure staffing in the critical economic situation of the municipalities at present?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e860	We have clearly said that with regard to the additional challenges facing the covid-19 situation, we are prepared to compensate for the additional costs. There we have also set down a separate sample, along with the KS, to identify what the extra costs are. The size has already granted – I guess – over 6 billion. kr, and there will be a new phase 3 package from the government tomorrow. So I'm sure the discussion about it is also going to go into the Storting. Since I have some time left, I would also like to respond to what the representative was working on with employees. As I said in my presentation, I believe that it is one of the basic success factors, that there are enough employees. From 2013 to 2018, there have been 1,300 more child-restraint workers. I think that's good. It shows that the municipalities take their responsibility, and we have also been concerned about facilitating this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e869	I expect the Council of State to know about the action of the #heians. It's now one and a half years old, and it's an action that's going on crew. It's nice that the government and the Council of State think that you have enough employees, but this action shows that we don't make goals. We also know that you are responsible for many of these child-restraints, you lose both the focus and the ability to see the whole human being, as each of these children is. So we're a little bit more interested in how to solve it. If, in view of the free income of the municipalities, free money is considered to be what it is going to do, is the government sure that this money will arrive at child protection where it is to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e874	Thank you for an important question. As I said, at least the speech of the figures is that from 2013 to 2018 there have been 1,300 new posts around the municipalities. And if you look at the annual growth here, it's actually also larger than when the red-green government used ear tagging. So I'm going to claim that the local economy has been pretty good in the last few years. It is demanding to say that it is good, because as a former municipal politician, I know that there are always tight budgets, but at least it shows that the municipal politicians themselves have prioritised it. I also mean, when one discusses this with earrings against free income, that a disadvantage with earrings, or a norm, is that a layer kind of cut, at least in terms of norm, when one makes some demands on how it should be designed, which does not necessarily fit in all the municipalities. And when Stortinget has said that it is the municipalities that should have such a great responsibility for child protection, it is important that they get it. But then it demands that they have an economy, and it requires that they give priority to it. That is why I believe this with municipal politicians, who have been involved by several representatives, is very important for the success of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e881	Report on the report describes critical aspects of child protection, as pointed out by the Council itself in its presentation. The economic differences in Norway are increasing as a result of this government's policy, and we know that crises will affect socially skeptical, and inequalities will increase strongly if we do not have strong policy measures to counter it. Research shows that children in wealthy families, as I said in my post, also get better adapted measures than others. Nevertheless, the Council of State did not mention fair distribution and cohesion of social differences once in its presentation. On the contrary, we see a policy of distribution and privatisation from this government that contributes to increased disparities. In its quality reform for child protection, the Labour Party has proposed that the class perspective be included in the education. Lack of knowledge of poverty, living conditions stress and social background affect the interaction between child protection and users. The government voted against this. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e890	I think it's just because, along with staffing, which we discussed instead, it's one of the most important things for employees to provide proper help at the right time. I also want to say that I think the 90 million. kr that we use on competence will be important precisely for understanding – whether it is of poverty, of minorities, of other culture, of other values, of religion. It is extremely important that employees be able to meet those families and the kids in a good way. In addition to that, it is also the competence strategy, where we have out to consult to make demands for master's degree or bachelor's degree in institution, which of what I think will help make even better decisions about child protection, along with such things as Digi Child Protection, which means that one will get a better systematic approach in the proceedings, so that we ensure that one is within the different points. So I think this is some of the things that are well taken care of in these bets.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e903	It was not that easy to get a line today. There's something wrong with the computer system, it looks like. On Monday, a crushing report on child protection was presented. This applies, inter alia, to: a question that both I and the representative Himanshu Gulati have been very concerned about here at Stortinget. These are children who are sent abroad against their will and without the possibility of returning home, many times to forced marriage, other times to Koran Schools. Now we can read that child protection has actually been involved in paying the airline ticket for these trips. – Relax, I'm going to challenge City Council No Marte Thorkildsen on how this can happen in a municipality, but I also want to know what kind of action the Council of State will take to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e910	Thank you very much for your important questions. This is an engagement that I fully share. That is why I attended and received the report and had posts there. Not least, we have ordered a job because we are concerned about how we can better prevent children from being exposed to what I might call the worst nightmare of their lives: being left abroad or being subjected to care failure in that way. Therefore, I would just like to say that I hope what is set out in the report is exceptional, because child protection should under no circumstances contribute to children being subjected to violence or abuse in connection with their departure from Norway. We now received that report on Monday, and I can only promise the representative that this is something we are going to follow closely. When she asks about what measures a person is working with now, I will again point out this with competence. This is about relational skills, about building trust in the minority communities – in order to prevent a clear person from actually choosing to do something like this to his kids, it is important to reach them and talk to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e917	In this debate, and also in the case before, there have been a number of reports showing negative things. I have no doubt that the department and the directorate are really trying to get an overview of all of this, but they're dealing with it a little bit like this. That's exactly why I want a proper review committee that's independent, and that can look at all of this in a whole. I am pleased that the minister was at least not reprehensible, and I think it may be something the whole Storting can stand together about. Now I want to draw attention to another type of reporting, which has always been about children not being heard. ‘Glassjenta’s report was ‘They did not understand me’, the Health Authority’s report in 2018 was ‘Barnet’s view does not come forward’, and last Friday a new report from Bufdir showed that four out of ten children are still not heard. Why are four out of ten children still not heard?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e925	First, I just want to say that maybe not all, but most of these reports are ordered by us just because we want more knowledge. We know that there are challenges, and we want to know more in order to do more. That's why it's not that these are just individual documents that we don't have control of. This has been put into a big context, and we feel that we have a good overview of many of the challenges, and we are asking for monitoring, investigation and documentation where we believe it needs to be done more. That is why I have also pointed to the Child Protection Act, the Competence Plan, Digi Child Protection, better cooperation between child protection and health, which we discussed earlier today, and the foster home work. In the field I believe that we are doing very much right. It's important because it has to be done now, which many people are concerned about, and then get a discussion about any own investigation, which I know will take a long time and will not be followed up for a long time. In terms of participation, which was the specific question, it was included in the law, and these investigations were before that. I hope that it's incorporated into the law, that it gets better, but that's something we have to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e932	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e939	Let me first thank the Council of State for a thorough explanation, where he drew a credible and, not least, honest picture of the state of child protection. Much is going well, as many have been involved, but at the same time there are many areas in which politicians have to address themselves. Unfortunately, it is not fast paths to the goal, but competence and capacity are something we have to promise further. Our job is to facilitate the safety of all children and young people. This week, the NRK mentioned a recent report from an expert group – which the representative Hemdal was also involved in the line change – which concluded that there is too bad a job to do to prevent children and young people from being forced into Quran schools. It is noted that work is too poor both in long-term prevention with good child protection work and in school-home cooperation. Researcher Anja Bredal stated that they have seen child protection that in some cases has supported families that send their children to Koran Schools in Somalia. Of course, we can't have it that way. There may be many reasons, but obviously much is about lack of competence and cultural understanding in this area. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State in its presentation affected these areas and told them that in these days, among other things. have been submitted proposals for new competence requirements at consultation. More competence will equip employees to do their tasks even better. It is also worth noting that this year more than 90 million have been allocated. SEK for continuing training in the sector. The Council of State was also clear that it is an important objective to increase confidence in child protection in families with just a minority background. Cultural understanding and relational competence were two areas that were developed. It must be a fundamental principle that the linguistic, cultural and religious background of children should be safeguarded in the field of child protection. In concrete terms, I will bring forward two measures that are also in place. The first is the new provision of training in minority competences, which will be offered to selected municipalities. The second is a new regulation on learning outcomes in child protection education, which specifies that students should be given knowledge of indigenous peoples, ethnic minorities and the life situation and rights of refugees. There is a lot of good work in child protection, but as many people have been involved here today, it is not the stories that come to light. The last time I said the exact same thing from this pulpit, I got several phones from people out there who thought I was completely wrong and didn't know what I was talking about. Of course, I fully understand their situation and their experiences. At the same time, it is also my job as a politician to promise that everything is not hopeless – while at the same time working to improve the very same child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e954	I also want to take the opportunity to thank the Council of State Rupstad for a thorough presentation, and not least for his commitment to the vulnerable children. I am pleased that the Council of State highlighted that there are skilled and dedicated people working in child protection around the country. As the Council of State points out, it is not the good stories we hear about. We hear about what's not going so well. Childcare is, together with kindergartens, schools, health centres, school health services and several of the services, the main safety net for the most vulnerable children. I believe, as the Council of State, that in most cases parents are the most important caregivers in a child's life. But the parent's assumptions are not the same in principle. One’s own upbringing, or experiences you’ve had, can make it difficult to be a good caregiver, either for a period of life or for a longer period of time. Early intervention — or early intervention, as it is also called — is crucial to how the child’s development will continue. Child protection does a fantastic job most times. But often child protection comes into the picture when a lot has already gone wrong. It's in the health centre, in the kindergarten and in the schools you meet the kids first. Good child protection depends on the fact that the other services around the children look at each child and have the competence to take action where needed — in cooperation with children and parents, other support services and child protection. Everyone works with the same children, and everyone works for the best of the child. But sometimes it's best for the child not to live with the parents. Then it's important to take over one relationship. In my 20 years as a health nurse, I have met many children and their parents. I have not met one parent who did not want to be a good parent for his child. It's their luggage, or circumstances, that make you unable to be the caregiver you like. Therefore, I cannot stress strongly enough how important and crucial early efforts are for the most vulnerable children and their families. It will save society from great resources, and not least — and most importantly — it will save individuals from great pain and stress in their lives. Finally, I want to commend the government for focusing on families with a minority background. We know that many minorities have less confidence in the big community, and therefore also in the auxiliaries. That is why I am very pleased that the government attaches great importance to increasing the cultural awareness and competence of employees, and that child protection training requires students to become familiar with indigenous people, ethnic minorities and the life situation and rights of refugees. It is also gratifying to open up to assess how cultural bridge builders can contribute to enhancing trust and interaction between public services and users. I know that there has been good experience in bridge builder services for it to the national minority space.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e971	There are several things in the Council of State's statement that go in the right direction, in the direction that the Workers' Party has long called for, among other things. After protection for longer periods of time, management skills requirements and what the Council calls people with core tasks – it's a little unclear what it actually contains – that you look more closely at foster families, and that you try to reduce the level of conflict. The Council of State correctly states that it must be an objective to experience child protection as a partner and help. Unfortunately, the reality is far too much away from this. In minority settings in particular, child protection is seen as something very scary, something that people try to stay far away from instead of looking at it as a help. Unfortunately, there are good reasons why it is. There are so many serious issues where there has been no attempt to lower the level of conflict, where there has been no attempt to find good practical solutions, where too much care has been taken over, and in particular the use of emergency decisions, and where legal certainty has been absent. As Henriksen's representative said, being deprived of a child is one of the most invasive things you can do to a family. It's for most, I think, worse than being taken from a car or another asset. But legal certainty if you are deprived of a car is far greater than legal certainty if you are deprived of a child. It's a paradox, to put it mildly. The Council of State says he will reduce the level of conflict, but at the same time he says he will take the EMD judgments into the Grand Chamber. Isn't it a very strange approach to bringing down the level of conflict to postpone those who have been in these cases for many years, to a new round? And are the details of this so incredibly important? Should you not just bend your head and say: Here, in fact, the complainants have a good point – right or wrong – let's tighten up the system, let's listen to the EMD, and let's correct the mistakes and deficiencies. Now you get a chance today to vote on seven proposals that we have promoted. I'm very excited if the Progress Party is making its words into action today and is contributing to the majority for matters for which they have at least been very much in word. There has been a lot of talk about the City Council in Bergen and the City Council in Oslo. Here we have a chance of the Storting in Norway, among others. may decide to set up an expert committee to look at legal certainty, and not least also, for example. that experts should be under supervision and not under child protection, and a number of other things, for which I believe there is a majority in this Chamber, if words are made into action, and we should certainly do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e986	I would also like to start by thanking the Council of State for the presentation in an important field, and I would also like to commend the work done both in the field of child protection and in other important departments in this demanding pandemic situation that we have been facing in recent times. The power to take from some of their children represents perhaps the most interventional power that the state has. It is therefore important that child protection measures are taken in the most professionally correct, legally accurate, ethically sustainable and socially ideal manner possible. Those who administer this power on behalf of us others bear a heavy responsibility, as do we as legislators and regulators in such matters. Nor does it escape the fact that child protection, as in other sectors, is often such that the good examples and matters are rarely highlighted, while attention is focused on where mistakes are made. However, it is difficult to avoid the fact that child protection in Norway has several major challenges. The fact that Norway has repeatedly been convicted in the European Court of Human Rights is something that needs to be addressed in the further design of child protection. This requires systematic cleaning in order to prevent multiple examples of parental withdrawal from their children and the right to family abuse on an incorrect basis. The Council of State indicated in its reply that in all cases where the EMD has found that there have been infringements in Norway, it has been shown that there are weaknesses in the specific decision-making basis or justification of the child protection system or the courts, and that it is not the Norwegian laws themselves that are contrary to the EMK. However, when so many cases of the practice of measures go against the law, there is cause for concern, and this must be followed up with the greatest seriousness. Several speakers today have mentioned the report that came earlier this week, where it appears that child protection, among other things. have been involved in and supported and paid for travel abroad, which may have ended up in Quran schools for children and young people. Over 400 children and young people have been sent abroad against their will in the last two years. Many media, especially NRK, have done an incredibly good job of revealing the kind of violence, torture and behavior that happens in these schools. Those who are in these schools are being subjected to abuse that we cannot accept. It is therefore totally unacceptable if it appears that child protection has been involved in and supported some of these trips. Here it has to be cleaned up. You have to review these matters and find out what has happened, and make sure that this does not repeat itself. The State, the authorities, shall be those who protect these children and help them out of that kind of misery and shall not contribute to more ports in that kind of misery.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e999	For the Advancement Party, it is important to underline a point we disagree a little bit with the Council of State, and that of course applies to the use of the private sector. The Council of State considers that ideal actors should be given priority over commercial ones. I have to say, like FrPs, that it seems like there are some ideological skyscrapers on here. For us, it's all, the most important thing that children actually get help, and that they get a good offer where there are offers. We could imagine a situation like the one we've been in now as a nation, if all the private actors hadn't been there. There had been a lot of children. It is good that the Council of State acknowledges that the private actors are important contributors, but I have to say that I am a little skeptical of the tone taken in the presentation, and I can at least now inform you that the Progress Party will be very observant with regard to the proposal that might come out of this later. For us, it's not important what kind of uniform you have, what's on your plate or on your payroll. What's important to us is that children get help. Then I have to come up with the suggestions that have been discussed from the pulpit today. I think it is good that the Centre Party has taken an initiative in its Document 8 proposal, which we are likely to deal with for the autumn, and I am at least open to look at it with fresh eyes and look at how to proceed in that discussion. However, I think it is a bit strange approach by the representative Trond Giske when he stands and says from the pulpit here that today we have a unique opportunity to support things we are in favour of. Yes, we in the Progress Party are voting for what we are in favour of, and then we are voting against what we are against. However, I have a small problem when seven rather comprehensive proposals are put forward in the Chamber on the same day as we have the debate. There's something about actually going through the suggestions and what they'll mean. I will honestly admit that, on the part of the Progress Party, it has been absolutely assessed to support proposal No. 7, but I still think there are some things here that are unclear. In fact, in the ultimate sense, support can mean that new child protection laws could be pushed out in time. So I hope the Council of State can say a little bit more about that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1010	In the main post, it was naturally pointed out some of the challenges of child protection, but I would like to take up the thread where my colleague from the Progress Party now pointed to ideal versus commercial and private actors. I was very pleased with that view in the Minister's statement, because we have called for the government to be given a little speed on action in line with the request decision made by the Stortinget to phase in ideal actors for commercial purposes. So here it happens a little bit -- and it's joyous. I'm sure that can happen more gradually, and we'll follow that closely. Then there's another moment I want to talk a little bit about. We sometimes get criticized, we big-time representatives, because we're going on committee trips abroad. What exactly are we doing there? We were in the U.S. last year, and then we were in Washington, and we went to visit the Child Protection in a town there. There have been great traces of me and I have used a lot of energy to visit foster families and foster children, and I have also talked to the foster home association. Because where we were visiting, they were so pleased that foster homes and foster children had finally been regulated by law. There were so many rights that it became much more attractive to be a good foster home, and it made the job much easier for those who worked with this problem. So far we haven't been there in Norway that we have regulated foster homes and foster children. I think that's a weakness. I think for some reason that maybe you haven't had enough work to do with how you organize foster homes in a lot of other areas of child protection. One of the objectives I want to achieve with this proposal for an independent review committee is to see a little bit more about the whole. The minister said that it is clear that his people in the department – that is, the directorate – see things as a whole. But what we need is something that the representative Hemdal was also interested in, namely, healthy eyes and independent eyes to see the whole thing and the context. In extending it, although we are promoting a proposal for a large Commission, we are now going to support proposal No. 7, from the Labour Party, because it is a very limited proposal that is about legal certainty and taking seriously the judgments we have received in the Human Rights Court. We also support proposal No. 6 and the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1021	SV supports all the proposals of the Workers' Party except for proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox Participation is particularly important, but SV is very concerned that it should be effective. The children and young people concerned have not evaluated this user involvement, and therefore SV does not want to support this proposal now, but we want children and young people concerned to be allowed to believe something first. SV also supports the proposal of the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party to ensure that new child law is in line with the UN Children's Convention. It is worrying that Norway is being convicted in EMD. This we need to take note of and sit down and see what we can learn from, and how we can take care of what the court points out. But it is very important that one now works to raise the status and secure the important job that child protection does – not for Norway’s reputation, but for those children who need us all, most of all. We need not just measures, decisions, organization, foster parents, but so much more. We all need us because there's a reason we're more people on Earth. We also need to improve the guidance and financial security – as the representative of the Central Party of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen mentioned – in respect of foster families. They are often left to themselves in situations, with thoughts these children have and have not, which they have never been prepared for. The resources of child protection are scarce, and many people have an easy heart when they have a child who needs it the most, with someone who can take care of it, and then you forget the rest of what it means to have knowledge and guidance. They're one of the most important resources we have, they work 24 hours a day 7 days a week, but I can stress that it's worth it. For these beautiful, strong lionlighters, it's worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1032	I fully agree with the Advancement Party that we should have a more thorough treatment. That is why the Labour Party has insisted that we should receive a communication, get a case in the committee and have it properly dealt with. When the government makes a presentation as a form, it is only now in the debate on the presentation that we have the opportunity to make proposals. It is as fast as it can be done, and the procedure allows. But I am glad that the representative Hemdal says that you should vote for what you are in favour of and against what you are against. I really hope that the Progress Party is for example. has a second-hand assessment of emergency decisions, but we will look at the vote on whether you are in favour or against – whether you are in favour of or against the fact that you are in charge of managing and organising expert judgements, so that this is not a party post, but is actually part of an objective procedure, and not least that you get an expert selection. I have to say I have very little understanding that these decisions, where we are putting the leadership for what the government is going to do to the Stortinget, contribute to a delay. What will really contribute to a delay is that the government makes proposals in the spring of 2021, as announced in the statement, and that go against what the majority of people want. Then we can risk putting everything at risk, sending new things to the hearing, and putting other things into the investigation. This would, of course, facilitate the fact that the government submits is in line with what the Progress Party might consider to be in action, not just in words. After all, it's now time to think all sorts of things about Nord-Norway and other things where it doesn't belong, like, for example. in the national transport plan. Then you have to make proposals in the media and you have symbolic decisions here. Here you have a chance to put a concrete lead on the government, and then the Progress Party will let action follow words. But there's another way to do it, and that's a very common way: if proposals are made in the Chamber and the Council of State says he will follow up on this, the proposals are turned into transmission proposals. It is quite possible for the Council of State Ropstad now to go up and say: Yes, we will let experts look at the proceedings and legal certainty in line with the EMD judgments, yes, we will provide a second-hand assessment of emergency decisions, yes, we will allow the councillors to manage and organise the expert systems. Unfortunately, the impression is that the case handlers in Child Protection are as desperate as we in Stortinget that the office, management and agency are more concerned with defending that everything has been done correctly and protecting their interests than with taking this complex of matters seriously that it deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1047	I tried to go through most of the suggestions in my post instead, and as I said then, on the contrary, very much of what the Workers' Party is proposing, far on the way out of what has been at the hearing. So very much of this follows up. My clear message to the Storting regarding many of these points, even where there are demanding dilemmas, is therefore that I believe that the investigations that are going on and those that are there should be followed up in a thorough manner before drawing the conclusions at all points. That's why I believe that although it's very good here, there's a lot of what's also being followed up, and that I'm going to come back to Stortinget with. As regards proposal No: 7, on which the representative Hemdal challenged me, and on which the representative Giske also challenged me at the end, I can clearly answer: Yes, I will let experts look at it. As I said in my post: First, the Supreme Court has interpreted three of the judgments. It gives us an important learning base, and I'm going to send it out to the different municipalities, so that they can also follow up. Secondly, it is the case that the EMD has brought up one case for treatment in a large chamber, and we also warn that we are requesting a large chamber treatment of two. That means there's development in the field, so letting expert groups sit down and look at this regardless of the fact that there's actually a development, I think it's wrong. What's perhaps so important, and what makes experts look at it, is that we use Norway's human rights institution and the University of Bergen to follow up the various judgments and look more closely at the human rights commitments, so that we can actually answer this in the work on new law in the best possible way. Then what the representative, Mr. Hemdal, says: if you're going to wait for an expert committee to look at this, to take this into the Children's Protection Act, the Children's Protection Act will not come in the spring of 2021. But we're going to follow up on this in a good way. I probably reacted so much to what Trond Giske said that we are asking for large-scale treatment. If that's how we're not going to ask for large-chamber treatment of things we disagree with, because we think it challenges the child's best, I honestly don't do my job as Minister of Childhood. That's the very basis. So we have a number of pending judges, and if the principles of the best of children are erased, there will be serious consequences for Norwegian child protection – and not necessarily only Norwegian, but perhaps more than that. That is why I believe that the Workers' Party must decide whether it is such that they believe that it is wrong to appeal against these judgments. It doesn't necessarily have to be a contrast between the best of children and the relationship with the biological parents. As we've been up to and clear, we believe that the parents are basically the best caregivers, but if it's not for the best of children that they're with them, they're going to get help, and then we're going to work what we can to bring them back to the biological parents. I believe this is an important part of my job, just to stand up for the child's best.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1063	I would like to make a few comments on this with the Commission that the representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has mentioned. I'll promise that I'll go over and look at it. But what I'm concerned about is that we have to look forward and not backward. I guess we have enough reports and maybe enough NOW's about things that have happened before. Now I am concerned that we need to find a device on how we can look forward. So I think having big reviews of child protection as a whole from time to time is right, but I'm just waiting to see how we can design something that we all think is good, to say it like that. So to this with expert committees: I actually believe that it is experts who are now sitting and evaluating the new Child Protection Act. The breach in the EMD concerns human rights; it is the human rights that have been tried in these cases, and when the Norwegian Institute of Human Rights and the heavy environment in Bergen are involved in designing new child protection laws and looking at this, I think it is very well cared for, because the same people would well sit in an expert committee, which is basically backward. I'm concerned that we're looking forward. At that point, we may not have talked so much about this with competence requirements and enhancing both the competence and the status of those who work in the field of child protection. I believe that municipalities are going to discuss every year how child protection is organised in their municipality, how many concerns there are, what kind of competence they have, what they do to spend money on child protection prevention, and how they work with the environments that we know are struggling – and we know that there are vulnerable children. I think we have to start at the bottom, where the children and families are, and that's in the municipalities. That's where we can actually prevent us from getting things that become care transfers. I want to mention the municipality of Kongsberg as a very good example. There, the number of care transfers has been dramatically reduced, and so has the municipality of Bærum. So it's useful to work in municipalities as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1074	First, I want to deal with this in a short time. The opposition invited the Council of State to make a presentation in the autumn. In that case, there could have been an ordinary procedure within the Committee. It could also have been this time if the parties of the government had promoted it as a proposal in the committee. The fact that we have little time to deal with these proposals is due to the parties of government alone. It is strange, I believe, that not the Council of State, Ropstad, who sits with the great responsibility of the Children's Ombudsman criticising the government for the lack of governance and saying it is a governance crisis in child protection, is seeking a wider majority in the Grand Duchy, so that the Council of State and policy can have a broad coverage. It is not this government willing to do so. They're going to ride their own kennels, and then they're going to take them in when they come up with their own suggestions -- well, notice what they think they can work on. If it's true that Council of State Ropstad says that all of these proposals work more or less in the government, then they can be transmission proposals. Then the government gets a good time, they can incorporate it into the matters they are currently working on, and then they can come back to the Stortinget with the assessments that are necessary for the Stortinget to make its decisions. This is a refusal to address the serious governance crisis and the systemic crisis in child protection, and it is regrettable. When we propose a separate selection to look at the EMD issues, our point is that it is not the case in itself that is the crisis, but that's what happens from child protection is in contact with the families for the first time, what makes it intersect in the course, and the process leading up to those judgments, not only in the EMD, but also in Norwegian courts where child protection is not supported. There aren't many, but there's serious interference in people's lives. It's almost like I'm being disappointed that that recognition doesn't reach the Council of State. The councils are bureaucratic at their very worst when he stands here and defends the system repeatedly and is not willing to take over – as he himself says – good suggestions. He said the same when we had the quality reform in child protection. We got a long investigation from the Council of State, Ropstad, that it was all good suggestions, it wasn't any criticism of a single proposal, but they're working on it. Just like that, he's now saying. Why can't we get an investigation commission that looks at the breadth of legal certainty in child protection, and why can't the Council of State Rupstad say that this is so serious for the kids out there and hurry that we want to take it with us from today on?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1087	The representative Silje Hemdal has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1092	I think the Council of State very well explained why it may be problematic to support proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party, today. I have doubted that the Progress Party will not support the proposal. But let's say, it's on the basis of the answer that the Council of State gave, that experts should look at this, that there's a lot of work in the field, and just that there's a problem related to investigating issues that are being dealt with in a trial. Something that can be difficult in a legal state sometimes is that we have to separate a little, but let me stress it: the progress party is willing to look at the EMD issues. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1097	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute – and the president stresses that 1 minute is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1102	My line goes to the Advance Party. I register that the Progress Party here is more concerned with devices and systematics than with the content of the case itself. I take note of that. Then I just want to say when it comes to e.g. emergency assessment, to which the Council of State Ropstad was involved, which he does not seem to be able to implement in the field of child protection: it has been carried out in all other parts of the service apparatus with emergency decisions. The police have it, they have a police lawyer, and the psychiatrist has it, they have a tutor. So that's the system government council Ropstad defends, not those children in child protection who actually need legal certainty. This is solvable, and it is regrettable to note that the government parties in this matter seem to be more concerned with continuing what they themselves think is very good, and not listening to the critical objections that come, and taking them seriously. It's just to take notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1111	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1117	Thus, the issues on today's map are finished. The store is now taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1140	The vote will take place first at voting on the remaining items on agenda No. 85 from Tuesday 26 May, which is case No. 14–25.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1152	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-6, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–6, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make proposals as soon as possible to reverse the cuts in free physiotherapy for victims of fire, people with developmental disabilities, amputees and all the other groups who now have to pay for this important treatment.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to submit proposals as soon as possible to reintroduce a good offer to older people over 75 years of age for a free dental check.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to carry out a continuous review of the effects of the ABE cuts on the hospitals across the country and to present the results to the Stortinge in the annual Quality and Patient Safety Scoreboard.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose as soon as possible to reverse the deterioration of the system for covering expenditure on dental regulation for children and young people and to ensure that the funds recovered are used to strengthen the system for them with real needs for orthodontics.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1203	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation in 2017 to 2019, including the consequences of terminating the physiotherapy diagnostic list, and to inform the Storting appropriately.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the hospital sector to be shielded from the ABE cut.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1227	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1232	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1251	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4 and 5, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No 6, from Tore Hagebakken on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 7, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to investigate and propose a new grant scheme to create more day-to-day activities for older people in municipalities.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1283	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the reintroduction of the day-to-day subsidy scheme for people with dementia.’ Red has announced support for the proposal. The Greens have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1302	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with an obliging escalation plan in order to strengthen the staffing and competence of the care of older people in the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for the Storing of Activity Offers for the Elderly.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1333	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Swedish Government asks the Government to issue a separate grant scheme for posts which can ensure increased multidisciplinary competence and greater volunteering in Norwegian nursing homes and in home care.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the municipalities, is asked to develop a system of its own screening services for particularly evasive dementia.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government does not ask for additional municipalities to be invited into the project with State funding for municipal health and care services.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1369	During the debate, Mr Wilkinson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, through cooperation with the KS and the employees’ organisations, to set up a national programme to increase basic staffing and recruitment to the municipal health and care services. The programme must contain concrete measures to facilitate locally anchored projects to increase basic staffing and reduce temporary staffing in the health and care services.’ An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the vote. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1386	The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1398	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1410	During the debate, Gisle Meininger Saudland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assess the implementation of objective legal and economic co-responsibility for transport buyers/transport orders and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner. The objective responsibility must include the co-responsibility of compliance with the wage and working conditions of the sector. The investigation must also assess the need for a register of establishments meeting the requirements to operate transport services according to the model of, for example, the Renhold register. The investigation must also assess the demarcation of contracting entities to whom co-responsibility shall apply.’;» Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1474	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1485	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1514	It shall be counted against B I, III and IV. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1528	It's over B.II.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1717	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1729	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1744	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1763	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1775	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1780	Since several representatives have voted incorrectly, we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1838	During the debate Helge André Njåstad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to initiate a process to liquidate the county as a level of government.’ An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the vote. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1869	During the debate, Mr Heidi Greni put forward two proposals on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the rapid reversal of forced mergers by the county councils so that they can hold new elections for the county councils at the same time as the enlargement elections in 2021.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government is asked to make proposals to compensate fully the expenditure incurred by the county councils in connection with the coercive mergers, including expenditure incurred in connection with the possible repeal of the coercive decisions. This must be done without cutting the framework transfers to municipalities and counties.» Alternatively, between these proposals and the setting. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1893	The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1912	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Masud Gharahkhani on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Masud Gharahkhani on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 5, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 6-11, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 12 and 13, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking Greece to provide relief by accepting lone minor asylum seekers and families from refugee camps.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1947	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for European cooperation to relieve Greece by allocating refugees to other countries.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e1964	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-11, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norway joins the German initiative on the evacuation of vulnerable and children from refugee camps in Greece now.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the UNHCR and Greece, is asked to select who meets the vulnerability criteria set by the UNHCR and Greece.’ [[including other age and disease]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a total of 1500 lone minors and other vulnerable asylum seekers from Moria and other refugee camps in Greece to be evacuated and at least 500 of them evacuated as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the use of the exemption clause in the Dublin Regulation to Greece, so that no applicants are returned there.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to defend the Refugee Convention and the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights of 1948, Article 14, which establishes the right to apply for asylum.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government of the International Peace Process in Syria is asked to work to include Kurdish self-government authorities in the peace talks, including the ongoing constitutional process.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e2009	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate Norway’s acceptance of some of the most vulnerable children from camps in Greece within the year’s quota of 3000 refugees, under the following conditions: – A broad range of European countries agrees on a reception agreement. Distribution is calculated according to population in the recipient countries. – Norway receives a request from Greece to contribute to relocalisation. — Norway accepts lone minors under 15 years of age without care in the camps, preferably girls. – Norway engages in dialogue with the United Nations to assess who are the most vulnerable within this group.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e2038	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for rapid dialogue with the United Nations in order to assess who are the most vulnerable we are going to bring to Norway by increasing the number of quota refugees in 2020, and how this can include the most vulnerable with protection needs from Greece.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e2055	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Government to return to the Storting as soon as possible with a proposal for changes to the State budget for 2020, so that Norway increases the number of quota refugees for 2020 from 3000 to 3500.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to enter into rapid dialogue with the United Nations in order to find solutions and implement a plan for the withdrawal of quota refugees for 2020.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit and implement a concrete plan for Norway’s international contribution to establish dignified and rights-based reception conditions in transit countries such as Greece. This involves quality assurance of asylum treatment, free legal assistance for vulnerable groups of asylum seekers, voluntary assisted return and reintegration of vulnerable groups.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e2106	The vote will be taken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e2144	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e2163	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that health services follow up children in an ordinary way so that everyone is assured of the health care, treatment and clarification that each child needs when child protection establishes a case.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e2196	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to legislate for a health examination of children’s somatic and mental health in relation to all care acquisitions.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e2220	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kristin Örmen Johnsen on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Left and Christian People's Party the proposals No 2-7, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–5, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to introduce quality standards for lawyers who are responsible for child protection matters in cooperation with the Bar Association.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review the eligibility of care takeover cases and assess the criteria for the frequency of appeals in the light of the best interests of the child.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals to put in place a mechanism under which all emergency decisions are subject to a second assessment by an external body.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the system of child protection experts to ensure that the council administers and organises the expert system.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e2264	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of a system of user assistance equivalent to the system of user assistance in healthcare establishments for all aspects of the child protection service.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e2281	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of an expert committee to review Norwegian child protection with a view to improving legal certainty at all stages of the service, on a specific basis in cases which have been/have been dealt with by the European Court of Human Rights.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e2298	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, from the Party of Advancement, from the Left, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the proposals for new child protection law and new child law are in line with the principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child to Information, to be heard, decisions for the best interests of the child and the right to privacy of the child.’ Mr Henriksen has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e2308	I just need to inform my group that we are going to vote in favour of this proposal, even though the rights of children are enshrined in the Constitution and the Children's Convention was incorporated as Norwegian law in 2003. We shall not vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e2314	The President has reason to believe that all parties support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e2324	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister for Child and Family Affairs of the situation in the area of child protection, held at the Stortinget meeting on 26 May 2020, be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-28.ana.ud348e2420	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
