ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e59	The representative of Une Bastholm, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 24 January 2020: ‘The City Council was held at Oslo Castle on 24 January 2020 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: The councils of Siv Jensen, Sylvi Listhaug, Anniken Hauglie, Jon Georg Dale, Ola Elvestuen, Terje Søviknes, Harald Tom Nesvik, Ingvil Smines Tybring-Gjedde and Jøran André Smedal Kallmyr are cast off in grace. Councillor Trine Skei Grande takes over the Board of Governors of Kindergartens, Primary Schools, Secondary Education and Integration and the Administrative Responsibility of the Ministry of Knowledge. State Council Jan Tore Sanner takes over the board of the Ministry of Finance. State Council Sanner remains the representative of Norway in the Nordic Council of Ministers with the special task of being responsible for coordinating Nordic cooperation issues. Councillor Monica Mæland takes over from the Ministry of Justice and Defence. State Council Bent Höie takes over, in addition to the matters he manages in the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Board of the Department of Health and Public Health of the Ministry of Health and Health. Councillor Torbjørn Røe Isaksen takes over from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Parliamentary representative Linda Cathrine Hofstad Helleland is appointed State Council and takes over the governance of regional and district policies, IT policies, electronic communications, privacy and policy towards the Sami and national minorities in the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation. Councillor Nikolai Eivindsson Astrup takes over the board of administrative policy, municipal economy, local administration and election implementation, planning, housing and building policy, coordination of government work with UN sustainability objectives, map and spatial data policy, government employer policy, state building and property management and contact with the Royal House, and administrative responsibility for the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Councillor Iselin Nybø takes over the management of food and trade policy and the administrative responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. The Mayor Knut Arild Hareide is appointed to the Council of State and takes over the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Transport. Majoring representative Henrik Asheim is appointed to the Council of State and takes over the board of policies relating to research, higher education, vocational schools, general policy of competence and education support in the Ministry of Knowledge. State Secretary Geir Inge Sivertsen is appointed to the Council of State and takes over the Management Board of Fisheries and Seafood in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. Parliamentary representative Abid Qayyum Raja is appointed to the Council of State and takes over the board of the Ministry of Culture. Parliamentary representative Tina Bru is appointed to the Council of State and takes over from the Ministry of Oil and Energy. State Secretary Sveinung Rotevatn is appointed State Council and takes over the board of the Ministry of Climate and Environment. State Secretary Lars Joakim Dålønes Hanssen, Geir Inge Sivertsen, Anne Helene Wettermark Bramo, Jørgen Næsje, Atle Simonsen, Brage Baklien, Roy Angelvik, Kristoffer Sivertsen, Alf Erik Bergstøl Andersen, Tom Staahle, Liv Lønnum, Tommy Skjervold, Allan Ellingsen, Toril Charlotte Ulleberg Reynolds, Julie Midtgarden Remen, Marianne Eikvåg Groth, Svenung Rotevatn, Rebekah Borsch, Atle Hamar, Tom Erlend Skag, Frida Blomgren and Guro Angell Gimse are cast off in grace. The Constitution of Karianne Hansen as State Secretary for State Council Ingvil Smines Tybring-Gjedde in the Ministry of Justice and Defence ceases. State Secretary Julie Kristine Kordahl is pardoned as State Secretary in 100 per cent position for the State Council of Olaug Vervik Bollestad in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and is re-appointed as State Secretary in 75 per cent position for the State Council of Olug Vervik Bollestad in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and as State Secretary in 25 per cent position for the Council of State of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad in the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. The Constitution of Maria Kristine Strandskog Göthner as State Secretary for State Council Jan Tore Sanner in the Ministry of Knowledge ceases. Maria Kristine Strandskog Göthner is appointed State Secretary for State Council Jan Tore Sanner in the Ministry of Finance. State Secretary Magnus Thue is hereby dismissed as Secretary of State of the Council of State Torbjørn Røe Isaksen of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries and is hereby re-appointed Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance Jan Tore Sanner. State Secretary Lars Jacob Hiim is pardoned as Secretary of State for Monica Mæland State in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation and is re-appointed Secretary of State for the Council of State Monica Mæland in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. State Secretary Paul André Chaffey is pardoned as Secretary of State of the Council of State Nikolai Eivindsøn Astrup in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation and is re-appointed State Secretary for the Council of State Linda Cathrine Hofstad Helleland in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. State Secretary Vegard Petter Einan is appointed Secretary of State for Government Anniken Hauglie in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and is re-appointed State Secretary for State Council Torbjørn Røe Isaksen in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. State Secretary Aase Marthe Johansen Horrigmo is pardoned as Secretary of State for the Council of State Monica Mæland in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation and is re-appointed Secretary of State for the Council of State Henrik Asheim in the Ministry of Knowledge. State Secretary Anders Bjørnsen Werp is pardoned as State Secretary to the State Council Jon Georg Dale in the Ministry of Transport and is re-appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Knut Arild Hareide in the Ministry of Transport. Jan Christian Kolstø is dismissed as Secretary of State for the Ministry of Culture Trine Skei Grande and is re-appointed State Secretary for the Council of State Trine Skei Grande in the Ministry of Knowledge State Secretary Anne Karin Olli is hereby dismissed as Secretary of State for Monica Mæland in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation and is again appointed State Secretary for Linda Cathrine Hofstad Helleland in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. State Secretary Sverre Vatnar is pardoned as State Secretary of the State Council Siv Jensen in the Ministry of Finance and is re-appointed State Secretary of the State Council Jan Tore Sanner in the Ministry of Finance. State Secretary Thor Kleppen Sättem is pardoned as Secretary of State for the Council of State Jøran André Smedal Kallmyr in the Ministry of Justice and Defence and is re-appointed State Secretary for the Council of State Monica Mæland in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. State Secretary Geir Straume Olsen is pardoned as State Secretary of the State Council Siv Jensen in the Ministry of Finance and is re-appointed State Secretary of the State Council Jan Tore Sanner in the Ministry of Finance. Self-employed Kari Elisabeth Olrud Moen is appointed State Secretary for State Council Jan Tore Sanner in the Ministry of Finance. Vice-Chairman Saida Roshini Begum is appointed State Secretary for State Council Torbjørn Røe Isaksen of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Political adviser Ingvild Often Arntsen is appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Knut Arild Hareide in the Ministry of Transport. Counsellor Heidi Karin Nakken is appointed State Secretary for the Council of State Nikolai Eivindssøn Astrup in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Senior Adviser Mathias Fischer is appointed State Secretary for State Council Sveinung Rotevatn in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Municipal Director Maren Hersleth Holsen is appointed State Secretary for State Council Sveinung Rotevatn in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Mr Grunde Kreken Almeland is appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Trine Skei Grande in the Ministry of Knowledge. The Executive Director of Trine Danielsen is appointed State Secretary to the Federal Council of State of Geir Inge Sivertsen in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries with effect from 10 February 2020. Editor Knut Aastad The Bureau is appointed Secretary of State for Government Abid Qayyum Raja in the Ministry of Culture. Deputy Mr Anja Johansen is appointed State Secretary for the Council of State Trine Skei Grande in the Ministry of Knowledge. Municipal politician Harald Furre is appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Nikolai Eivindssøn Astrup in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation with effect from 4 February 2020. County Council Ingelin Noresjø is appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Knut Arild Hareide in the Ministry of Transport. Managing Director Odd Emil Ingebrichtsen is appointed State Secretary for the State Council Tina Bru in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Director Lucie Katrine Sunde-Eidem is appointed Secretary of State for the State Council of Iselin Nybø in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. The ranking of the members of the Government shall be determined in accordance with the proposals submitted. All amendments made above shall be made with effect from 24 January 2020 at the latest. 14.00, unless specifically mentioned otherwise. These posts are kept open to state councils and State Secretaries who are employed in the State as long as they are State Councils and State Secretaries. If it is added to the annual target position, the end of the annual target shall be postponed for a period corresponding to the time they have served as state councils or state secretaries.’;» The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. National Council changes entail the following changes in the composition of the Storting: The former members of the government Sylvi Listhaug, Jon Georg Dale, Siv Jensen and Ola Elvestuen have taken seats as representatives. The following alternates meet as representatives at the time representatives Henrik Asheim, Abid Q. Raja, Knut Arild Hareide, Tina Bru and Linda Hofstad Helleland are members of the Government: For Akershus: Anne Kristine Linnestad and Solveig Schytz For Hordaland: Toril Selsvold Nyborg For Rogaland: Aase Simonsen For South-Trundellag: Guro Angell Gimse Four permit applications are available: from the representative of Lise Christoffersen on leave from 28 to 31 January, from the representative Petter Eide on leave from 28 January to 31 January. 15 to 30 January and from the representative of Ingjerd Schou on leave of 28 and 29 January – all to attend meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg from the Right-wing Group on sick leave for the representative Aase Simonsen from 28 January until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the meeting of the alternate of Finnmark, Vetle Langedahl, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget from 28 to 31 January under the authority of the representative Marianne Haukland, to attend the Thematic Conference of the Western Nordic Council in Torshavn. From the first alternate of Rogaland, Trine Danielsen, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of Aase Simonsen, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Buskerud: Niclas Tokerud 28-30. January For Finnmark: Christine Nilssen 28-30. January For Oslo: Olivia Corso Salles 28 January at 2.30 p.m. 15-30. January For Rogaland: Leif Erik Egaas 28 January and until further notice For Eastfold: Thor Edquist 28-29. January
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e321	Niclas Tokerud, Christine Nilssen, Leif Erik Egaas and Thor Edquist are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e332	The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e337	On behalf of the major representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Lars Haltbrecken, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on a matter that I believe is overdue for review, namely the investigation of ferry options on the E39.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e342	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will put forward two representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e347	On behalf of the big business representatives Karin Andersen, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Arne Nävra, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself, I would like to propose measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, on behalf of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Arne Nävra, Karin Andersen, Petter Eide, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself, I would like to propose a binding commitment to the oil and gas industry to cut greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e352	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e358	On behalf of Nicholas Wilkinson and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on enhanced abortion rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e363	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e368	On behalf of the major representatives of Arne Nävra, Freddy André Øvstegård, Audun Lysbakken, Nicholas Wilkinson, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I am tabling proposals for the necessary changes to be able to dissolve coercive county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e373	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e378	On behalf of the major representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Karin Andersen, Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I am delighted to promote proposals to correct unfair health.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e383	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e388	On behalf of Solfrid Lerbreckk, Karin Andersen, Freddy André Øvstegård, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself, I will put forward proposals to correct unfair welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e393	The representative, Sylvi Listhaug, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e398	On behalf of Bård Hoksrud, Gisle Meininger Saudland and myself, I am delighted to submit proposals to refuse to apply for a works concession, foreign sponsorship and exemptions from EEA legislation from NorthConnect to build power cables between Norway and the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e403	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e419	I have asked to address the Storting through a message based on the changes that occurred last week in the government. The leader of the Progress Party announced on 20 January that the party wanted to leave the government. On 24 January the party's state councils went off. The government now consists of the parties Right, Left and Christian People's Party. On 11 September 2017, the parties Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party reached a majority in Stortinget. The leader of the party has stated that the party does not want a change of government. On that basis, the government continues its work. The government will continue to base the Granavolden platform on its work. The platform sets out a clear direction in its work to address the major challenges facing Norway. The government will create a sustainable welfare society by transforming the Norwegian economy, creating growth and more jobs, building infrastructure across the country, investing in knowledge and competence, promoting the green shift and ensuring more legs to stand on. The government will pursue an offensive climate policy, which is necessary to create ecological sustainability, so that future generations will have as good opportunities as we do. The government will work for social sustainability by preserving a society characterised by small differences, trust between people and poverty reduction. The Government will pursue a restrictive, legal and responsible immigration policy. The government will work for a safer society by providing the rule of law, a strong and effective police force and a credible defence of the country. I also refer to the government statement held in Stortinget on 29 January 2019, where I presented the Granavolden platform. The work of following up the government statement is well under way, and let me give you some examples of it: A key communication on competence policy is under preparation. The aim is to provide a wealth of skills so that no one goes out to date in our working life. A greenhouse gas emission reduction plan shall be drawn up in Norway. The professional basis for the work is soon in place. The work on a new perspective message that points to the choices we need to make in the future in order to create a sustainable welfare society is well under way. Cooperation with municipalities on the quality reform of the elderly, living all their lives, is going on for good – and with a high level of commitment from all parties. The government is working on a long-term defence plan and is pursuing a foreign policy to secure Norway in a troubled world. The government is working on a child reform, the main aim of which is to give all children equal opportunities and to strengthen the economy of low-income families, and an equal-value reform is being developed, which will facilitate everyday life for families with children with special needs. So the government continues to rule on the basis of the program that came out of Granavolden, and I'll be allowed to invite the Storting to constructive cooperation to just create a sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e466	The President will propose that the Prime Minister's statement be debated at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e484	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e491	The Stortinget is currently dealing with Document 8:97 S for 2019–2020, a representative proposal from SV for a fairer collection. A unanimous committee shares the concerns of the authors of the proposals for debt growth and the consequences of unmanageable debt could lead to for humans and their families. What you see today is that many people get disproportionate demands on the basis of smaller amounts and end up in a debt trap that can be difficult to get out of. This challenge has already been addressed by the government over a year ago and has set up a working group consisting of members of the Ministry, the Financial Supervisory Board, the Consumer Council, Finance Norway and the Working Inkasso. The group delivered its opinion to the Council of State yesterday. Several of the proposals put forward in this matter are mentioned in the working group's report. The report will now be thoroughly reviewed and included in the assessment basis for any changes to the laws and regulations. In recent years, a number of regulatory measures have also been implemented in the field of finance to stop the growth of debt, for example. through consumer loan regulations and debt registers. According to the consultation by Finans Norway to the Committee, this has had a good effect and the growth in lending has declined. However, all the hearing bodies also pointed out that the debt collection law needs revision. I haven't had time to get involved in the sample report, but see in the media that they are proposing to reduce the fees incurred in the legal collection of the outstanding small amounts, and that this can save consumers for nearly 2 billion. krones. There may be many reasons why people don't pay in time, but the consequences must be in line with the offense. I think a lot of people experience the fees as unfair, and I'm glad that the sample seems to suggest something that Right long thought. There are examples of two-digit claims that have ended up being four-digit in a collection process where the debtor has forgotten to pay. Such examples are unreasonable and conflict with good debt collection practices. It is appropriate to consider a more balanced system in which collection salaries are more adapted to the size of the requirement. At the same time, it is important to stress the principle of repaying bills and borrowed money and that a serious collection business has an important function in this respect. They are professional, must have a concession to operate and are subject to supervision by the Financial Supervisory Authority. The right and government parties take seriously the concerns about unmanageable debt, will listen to the reports, go through the report that has now come, and come back to the measures needed to prevent people from falling into debt because of the collection rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e506	The proposal to amend current collection legislation aims to make this mechanism more equitable. In today's system, we see that many people get disproportionate demands on the basis of smaller amounts. The question we have to ask ourselves is whether there are good reasons why a very small claim should double or multiply in a short time, which can often lead to the loan becoming unmanageable to those who are struggling with high debt. In particular, this becomes a problem when actors engage in aggressive recovery with no special room for discretion either in terms of the individual’s life situation or in terms of the size of the requirement. We hear about people who see no solution but to take up new debts to cover old debts. The possibilities for this have been quite great to this day. The proposal is therefore aimed at getting a fairer and more manageable recovery. When we look at changes in this area, there are more reasons we need to take. On the one hand, we need to make sure that people want to settle themselves, and that the industry has good enough profitability to offer this service. On the other hand, we need to ensure that the recovery stays within reasonable limits, and that it is perceived fair to most people. Several of the proposals have been evaluated by the Legal Affairs and Civil Protection Working Party, which is looking at the Collection Act and which has recently delivered its work. This applies, inter alia, to: debt collection and good collection practices, and it is possible that the aggregation of claims has been a topic in the report of the working group. It is strange, however, when the government parties and the Progress Party believe that we should not rush into this matter. While the consequences of unmanageable debts for individuals and their families are increasing week by week, they still show a touching defence for this industry when proposed changes need to be postponed for yet another while, in good right-wing fashion. The measures they consider can improve the situation in an easy way by changing what they call good collection practices. What they really think is to allow collecting societies to scare consumers into exemplifying the extremely high costs they can get if you don't pay their claims in time. Such measures seem to have to be thoroughly investigated before we begin to alter the performance of these companies that are to provide credit security in our economy. Investigations and major postponements are the most important answer to the Right and Advance Party at most, and often it is the weakest in society that suffers from this exasperation. This becomes especially evident when we look at the actual profitability of these companies' right-wing government wants to protect so strongly, has. It is therefore quite natural that we believe that it is necessary to consider whether what these companies can impose by law is too high, whether it is natural to give the orderers an incentive to shop for the most reasonable companies. For this reason, the Workers' Party strongly supports the proposals to limit writing fees to actual costs and to allow final contributors to participate in the large efficiency savings companies have had through digitisation. This has clearly not cost so much in investment that it will go beyond profitability in any way. If the companies asking for money also have to pay a smaller part of the cost, they might be a little more careful to sell their goods to people who actually don't have money to pay with. This is not necessarily a bad thing. Furthermore, they will be better acquainted with their customers if they are required to negotiate with them. So maybe the debt collection companies can no longer bill revenues on bonded bonds, but there's nothing in their economy that suggests that this will erase the industry in any way. That we also want to look at any prohibitions that ensure the most vulnerable, for example. in the field of health care, the Workers' Party considers it morally necessary. Of course, people who are struggling to follow up their own economy today do not have to be scared to seek the necessary health care. I bring this up with me the proposals of the Workers' Party are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e525	The representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e530	The Progress Party shares the concerns of the proposers for increasing debt growth and low proportional recovery costs. There is also little doubt that much can be done to both modernise and make the rules and legislation around debt collection more effective and perhaps fairer. That is why we were pleased that a group was set up to work on possible measures and work closely with today's rules. As we all know, that report was presented yesterday. The progress party is set to go through it thoroughly before we come up with our position on any change that should be made on the collection side. That is why we believe it is wrong at the moment to vote in favour of changes. We will work closely with that report before we come up with our actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e535	The enormous growth in consumer debt and the number of debt collection cases in recent years are very alarming. It is a clear signal that we need a review and a tightening of the legislation to bring down the number of people who end up in debt, with the consequences it has for individuals and families. For the last 20 years, the average growth in consumer debt has been 15 pst. per year, and it simply cannot continue. I think we've all got stories about how what was initially small outstanding demands, has grown up almost completely unmanageable as a result of high fees and salaries. Let me say that, of course, it is important that people make up for themselves, and that they pay the debts they have incurred. At the same time, it is unthinkable that small amounts should be doubled or multiplied in a short time. I think it's against people's sense of justice when we hear stories that the NRK said last year, where an unpaid interest claim of 22 cents was $4,200. Some of those who end up in debt traps are also suffering from high debt or social problems, and then this system should not be allowed to add stones to the burden. In particular, this becomes a problem when actors drive aggressive recovery without any particular room for understanding when it comes to the individual's life situation or the size of the requirement. We in the Center Party have been a proponent for a long time to put the debt register in place. We believe this is an important, but far from adequate, measure to bring down the growth of unsecured debt. The debt register makes it much easier for the actors to get an overview of people's non-indebtedness, and we hope to see that this has an effect. New figures from the debt register from October last year also show that the Nordics have a much higher consumption debt than one previously believed, almost a total of 53 billion. kr more than the previously created amount. The high consumption debt is particularly serious because we know that a large part of this debt goes to debt collection. In 2019, it was reported that one fifth of the consumption debt goes to debt collection. I want to show that all the hearing agencies point out that there is a need for revision of the incassolova, and then I think there is a need for more knowledge about what kind of outcome a part of the proposed measures will have for both the creditor and the debtor. This is why we are asking the government to ensure that these measures are distributed and evaluated in the first place. One thing that still stands out for us in the Center Party is that the level of the maximum rates that are driven in connection with debt collection operations is too high. We don't see any reason for postponing a deregulation of these rates. I look forward to reading the report from the working group and their proposals for action. I hope that together we can only take the steps necessary to get a fairer system of debt collection, so that fewer people end up in debt cases in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e554	Would the representative include proposals of which the Central Party is part?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e559	She will certainly!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e564	Then the representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the proposals of which the Central Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e569	I allow myself first of all to welcome the new Minister of Justice to the Stortinget. It is with great expectations, really, that we are meeting the new Minister of Justice. We hope that together with her we can have good discussions on the development of the rule of law in Norway. I also allow myself to bring some reflections that are partly related to this matter. It is not surprising that the range of justice ministers we have had in Norway for six years has represented – of course – a lack of continuity, and many have had what we might call an authoritarian view of the relationship between crime and punishment. There has been a demand for longer penalties, a demand for the imprisonment of young people, for children, and there have been tougher and more deterrent settlements, even illegal isolation, and increased armed use of the police. There have also been proposals from some of these Ministers of Justice on a ban on children's entry and double-punishment if one lives at Holmlia instead of in Holmenkollocken – even castration as a penalty, we have heard of a former Minister of Justice from the Progress Party. So we expect that there will be completely different notes now, with this Minister of Justice, that this represents a shift of lines, ideologically speaking, and I am quite certain that the new Minister of Justice, Monica Mæland, does not represent this kind of authoritarian approach to the relationship between crime and punishment. Before we go further, I just have to say that in case of an incursion, SV's support for some proposals fell into the matter. We also support the proposal No. One, two, three, four, five, and six -- so that's what they're saying. So to this case, the starting point here is that thousands of people get into a debt trap. It's a symptom of a society where consumption appears more important than anything else, and people's identity is more linked to what they consume and what they buy than what they actually do. It is driven by a commercialised world, a cynical advertising industry and an alliance between consumer loan banks and debt collection companies. Many thousands of people are driven into hopeless debt traps. Nordmen's total unsecured consumption loan is now 100 billion. kr. That's a lot of money. The debt collection industry, which we are now discussing, has very good margins. They took in 4 billion. Last year's kr, and for most people it's small unpaid small amounts that generate huge demands. It can even affect people's access to healthcare. It also happens, in fact, for up to several thousand people, that small amounts have led to forced sales of people's housing. So the debt collection industry has earned a lot of money on the lack of ability of ordinary people to control their own consumption. Many ordinary people, including many innocent people – children and families – are affected by this culture that has arisen, and we as a crowd also have to take responsibility for creating a culture of consumption that makes people perhaps unable to control their own economy. That is why we have included in this proposal that we want to create a clear framework for collecting societies. Here are more suggestions. Among other things, we believe that the government has to review the fees, so that they become smaller. We're going to find out if there has to be a lower limit on claims, we're going to investigate a ban on reselling debts, and we also have to make a ban on making so-called drawdowns in connection with the admission of unsecured credit. It was very nice that yesterday there was actually a proposal from a working group that the government has put down. We see that part of the proposals that overlaps with our proposals, and that's very good. They have also proposed a cut in salary rates, a cut in a reminder fee and a combination of requirements. They have calculated that this will lead to a savings for consumers of 2 billion. kr, corresponding to a loss for the industry of a few billion. This can actually lead to the industry either having to clean up itself, and some companies will either have to merge or cut off their business. The doubt that may have come up from the right here is that people have to take responsibility and pay their debts. Yes, we agree that they should, but as this has now evolved, society must also take responsibility for regulating this industry, so that people do not get into completely hopeless debt traps, which can also affect a number of innocent people. My colleagues who have promoted the proposal for a representative will go a little further into the details of our proposals. With this I address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e587	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e592	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Eide, for his warm welcome. I also look forward to working closely with both the Committee and the Stortinget. Initially, I would like to stress that the government naturally shares the commitment of debtors, as the representatives Kaski, Andersen and Sangtarash have shown by promoting this proposal for a representative – even if we do not agree with all the solutions. The government has clearly prioritised work on both debt collection and debt issues in general. In the autumn of 2018, the Ministry of Justice and Defence set up a working group to look at the legislation. The working group has been subject to much of the collection legislation and made its report yesterday, 27 January. The working group has had representatives from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, the Consumer Council, the Swedish Consumer Council, the Swedish Finance Agency, the Ministry of Justice and Defence, and has been thoroughly involved in the issues and made many proposals. There does not seem to be any particular disagreement with regard to the problems of debt collection legislation, but the working group has other proposals for solutions than any of the solutions that the draft representative has. The working group shall have, inter alia: proposed a halving of the scoring rate for outlay requests and large reductions in collection salaries. Overall, it is estimated that the revenues of the collection industry will be reduced by nearly 50 pst. with the proposals supported by a majority of the working group. In addition, a single working group proposes several rules which provide concrete guidance on how to recover and which complements good collection practices. Some proposals will strengthen the position of all debtors, for example. rules on communication. Other proposed rules will protect debtors with special needs for adaptation. This applies, for example: proposals for the obligation to adapt the recovery to debtors in a particularly difficult situation, the obligation to follow up out-of-court debt negotiations, the proposal for out-of-court debt regimes and the rules to which the debt collection undertakings are to address when the debtor is a minor or an adult under guardianship. The working group also proposes that the debtor's sub-payments cover the principal and the amounts due before interest and recovery costs. The last proposal will make it easier for debtors with high consumption loans to get out of the debt spiral. There is reason to believe that halving the writing fee could lead to fewer lay-out requests. Also, the workgroup’s proposal for an obligation to examine in the Leasing Register whether the debtor has recently been registered with ‘nothing for expenses’ could prevent many unnecessary spending requests. A majority of the working group has proposed that debt collection companies should not be able to cover the costs of legal recovery for the creditor – i.e. the prohibition of agreeing no cure no pay for these costs. This proposal is also aimed at reducing the level of extravagant demands for small requirements. An extended obligation to merge requirements will also lead to fewer outlays requests, while the debtor saves salaries. In the case of claims transferred to an entity that is in the same group as a collecting society, a majority of the working party proposes a very large reduction in salaries by allowing only a fee to be levied, as in the case of buying-in and selling. The proposal does not, however, cover the remuneration of a non-profit-making association which has been imposed on the case before the transfer. It is important for the Ministry to get a thorough job started. We're going to review this. We are not going to spend more time than is necessary, but we are going to have a thorough review – and of course I am going to follow up with a view to making good and useful changes to the collection policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e618	First of all, I would like to welcome the Council of State to the debate with the Justice Committee in Stortinget. The Committee has learned to be quite adaptable with regard to new ministers of justice, and we hope, of course, and look forward to good cooperation with the newly appointed Council of State. So I would like to thank you for a good review of the work done by the working group. The issue we are dealing with here today has the power to directly influence people's everyday lives, and that is also why the Workers' Party supports the proposers in a number of proposals and also promotes some of their own. The Council of State has been committed to the work group's proposals and treatment, and that is good, but can the Council of State now assure the Government that we will see practical policies come out of this work quite quickly, so that we can relieve and clean up people who are in a difficult situation today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e625	When the working group was set up, it was recognised that this is a problem. I have not been so thoroughly involved in the proposal as I wish, but I will. I believe that we can solve problems here for people who are in a difficult position, while at the same time ensuring that people do not take up unnecessary debt, and at least that you have to settle for yourself, because that's a good starting point, of course. I'll go over this. I think some of the proposals will have to take some time, but I think others can be implemented with a shorter horizon, and that's what I'm up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e632	I would also like to thank you for the review by the Council of State. I understand that the Council of State will come back to Stortinget with a follow-up to the work group. My question is, in fact, quite specific to the fact that the United Kingdom has already raised and adopted the bill that salaries should be reduced. It should come quite early, I'd expect, from the government, a follow-up to the clear position of the Storting that the salaries are going down. When can we expect it from the government, and will the government in that work also look at the salaries that the Namsman and the state themselves take? Some of the attention given to these matters is about debt collection companies, but we also have examples that the state through the Namsman is left with a significant share of the costs that the citizen has to bear.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e637	As I said to the previous questioner, I am concerned that something can be treated faster than other things. So it has to be done in a real way, and I have to get it done. When the representative asks about public payroll requirements, there is also an income issue in the government budget. That's how long I've been doing that. Here things have to be seen in a context. I just have to be allowed to come back, but I'm thinking that in terms of the things we can take out of the working group and deal with quickly, we're going to do it, and we're going to do it in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e644	Thanks for the answer. Another thing that the working group, as far as I can see, has not been so closely involved, is that too many people will be extremely coercive, i.e. coercive sales and enforcement. We've seen examples of small demands, small amounts in the big context, for example. related to medical visits, a person ends up losing his house in forced sales. I think many people will agree that there is a rather violent reaction to someone who may be in such a vulnerable situation that you cannot handle either medical visits or the costs involved, and that it is unreasonable that you end up losing your house. Does the Council share the view that it is unreasonable, and will the Government and the Council of State consider whether to have an amount limit, e.g., for what can be enforced?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e649	It is not difficult to understand the unreasonableness of e.g.: a medical visit shall lead to the loss of the dwelling. But it's like we're now in the government and in the department, we've got a position, and we're going to go through it. Then we're not there that we're forced to just evaluate the suggestions that the working group makes. We can make our own assessments, and we also have to do so when we have now promised to return to Stortinget with this matter. So I think we'll look at the suggestions that are on the table. Now it's supposed to be said that we haven't seen so many examples of what the representative is dealing with, and fortunately, but to the extent that it's necessary to solve a problem and solve something that leads to a difficult situation for a disadvantaged group, we're going to do it, and it's going to be done in a proper way. That's my starting point. – I ask that I be allowed to be a bit round today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e656	It is important that we have a well-functioning debt collection system. But debt collection agency is going to be the last resort when people don't settle for themselves, it shouldn't be the shortest way to easy money for a debt collection business. It is therefore good that a report has now been received from a working group which has proposed a significant reduction in the collection salary. In the case of a collection centre, there shall be no penalty or fine; it shall cover the real costs of the collection procedure. I understand that the Council of State has had limited time to get involved in the report of the working group – we all have – but the proposal under consideration is the one that the Council of State and the Stortinge have to decide on today. The question then is, when the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV propose that the writing fee be reduced to the actual costs, why can the Government Parties and the Council not be involved in such a proposal, so that the costs of the debtors are reduced immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e663	I agree with the description of the challenge. We have to settle for ourselves, and debt collection should be appropriate to recover claims and not erase any punishment – of course not. With regard to the proposals that have been put forward today, I believe that we have a good work distribution between government and big business. When the government as the executive has received a report and now answers some of the issues that have been raised there, I believe that this is the basis for waiting for the changes we are now making on the basis of that report.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e671	Of course, the report of the working group should be followed up, but at the same time it is important for the government, not least, to follow up on what the size has been concerned about. This is not the first time the Storting has been concerned with the size of the collection rooms. It has been a host, among others. earlier during the budgetary procedure. Therefore, there is a specific question: why is one not willing to make sure that it reduces the cost of writing? The other important thing is that once we've got a debt register that, compared to before, gives more information to those who borrow money, one also has to look at what demands are placed on those who borrow money. If one chooses not to use the possibilities that lie there, why is the government not willing to agree to investigate new orders, for example. linked to own collection agency, as proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e678	The debt collection industry is an industry – whether you like it or not – with a large number of employees. Yesterday, in response to the position of the working group, seemed to suggest that this would have a significant impact on the industry. We can live with that. But then at least it has to be handled properly. When we change regulations and make changes, we have consultation, we have proceedings, we do it in a thorough and proper way. I think the department does that in a better way than the Stortinget. That's why we have the division of labour we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e683	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e690	I would also like to welcome the Council of State here. Until the end that was said, I have to say that we cannot have high collection costs and a completely unfair practice in collecting small claims, because the collection business is going to be large. And we can't have it that the state makes money that people have debts. That, I think, is a principle that we have to establish cannot be right. The debt collection industry has a function in society, but it can't be that we have to maintain high pay rates in order for them to grow and grow. We in SV have been proposing this for many years now, and I hear a lot of concern and see little action. Even the case rapporteur says that they understood this already a year ago. Yes, you have been out quite late. SV has made many proposals, including: those we are dealing with here today, but we also have other proposals to prevent people from taking up debts they cannot afford. Today, unsecured debt is thrown away after people who can't afford it at all. I am pleased that the debt register system has been put in place, but the problem with it is that it does not give an overview of the debt to the public, the student loan or the loan for housing and the car. And that's really the big money people owe. So when it doesn't appear to the banks when they're going to issue short-term credit cards or any other unsecured debt, it's clear that many more will have problems. It can be hard sums that can roll the whole economy. We have also proposed a cap on unsecured debt. I don't think anyone should be able to take 30-40 pst. interest on this type of debt. If you reduce these enormous benefits, the one that gives credit will also be a little bit more careful to throw debt at people who shouldn't have it. It's important. SV is very concerned that we should be able to take credit, but also that people should be able to settle for themselves. But then it has to happen within some rules that make it actually possible for people. It is also completely unreasonable that many of these small things should go to debt collection. Egeninkasso has lower salaries, so many of these small things that are unsecured should go to Egeninkasso. Some of these small demands, as the representative Kaski raised, can actually end up losing his home. That's a little bit of a sum. We have to figure out systems for this that make people make up for themselves, but also get out of these debt traps.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e705	As many people have experienced, Norway is at the top of the world when it comes to debt collection. The growth has been both dramatic and completely unparalleled with our neighbouring country, so when the representative Andersen talks about that we in SV have been involved in this matter and this development for a long time, it is quite correct. This is something that should have made the alarm clock call both in Stortinget and in the government several years ago. I am glad that there is such a consensus that it is completely unreasonable that small amounts, as we have seen many examples in the media, grow exponentially when it comes to debt collection, while the collection industry remains at very good margins. That is why I am pleased with what the working party is now proposing. It is also a follow-up to what I was about to do in the reply, namely that a total increase has been fixed and made clear that these salaries have to be reduced. I must therefore say that I am a little surprised that both the government parties – and the Progress Party as well – are still so pending in their conclusion from the pulpit today. It should have been clearer from those parties that soon there will be proposals to reduce those salaries. It is also important that the Ministry and the Council of State now enter into the role of the State, because even if one is to look at the collection industry and how they have behaved, it is also important to look at the negotiator and the role of the state when it comes to the size of the salaries, but also at the power which, after all, is quite great from the state to be able to recover debts through, for example, the amount of debt. forced sale of the dwelling. That is why we are proposing the possibility for the tax collector to be able to reject de minimis claims. We see examples of the debt collection industry just shifting responsibility for recovery to the state because the state is sitting with these powers. It should not be possible for the collection industry to do so. It must be possible for the man-in-law to reject it – just as it is unreasonable and should not be such as to have to experience that the house is forcibly sold because one has not met up to a playtime and has received a peculiarity that has grown up to heaven. Of course, this is not just a matter of consumer debt, but it is important to look at the consumer lending industry and consumer debt, which Andersen's representative was in, and how consumer loan companies and debt collection companies have worked together over the last few years, where you can actually buy and sell debt with large revenues and a large operating margin.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e716	Now, so far in the debate, several have referred to the working party that yesterday presented its report with its recommendations, and where – at least through what is reproduced in the media – it has been shown that they are aware that there is room for reducing collection costs by about a quarter. 2 billion. kr. There is a lot of money, and it should get the government – and also the Progress Party in the opposition – to see that there is a need for immediate action here. When a working group that has examined the issue sees that there is room to reduce the collection costs by billions, it shows that there are some who have not attended the hour, some who, when there have been technological changes that have resulted in reduced collection costs with their collection, have failed to reduce the collection fee. On the contrary, it has been regulated on some occasions. It is high time and over-mature that someone got hold of the collection rooms, which also invites this case to do concretely when it comes to writing school. It is not about the Stortinget making specific decisions now, but one sends an order to the government to make sure to reduce the writing fee. In particular, given the report that was presented yesterday, it should be done that several of the parties who did not participate in the vote – now that we have the debate today, and with the knowledge we have from the report that was presented yesterday – are in favour of that proposal. Then to the report. I think that is a lot of good work in that report and good and important proposals, among other things. the reduction of collection fees on small claims. At the same time, implementing it can also result in additional pressure on some of the things that have not been addressed by the working group, namely some medium-sized claims, not least related to consumer loans. Therefore, there is a need for one to also go further into and look at how it works, to look at the interaction that is really between those delivering consumer loans today, and parts of the debt collection industry, and how this can be better regulated in the future, both through a ceiling on interest rates, through an expanded debt register and by ensuring that we bring down debt collection salaries. As I said earlier today: debt collection is important, one should settle for itself, but the way the system works today, there has to be changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e727	I'm just going to comment briefly on some of the issues that have been involved in the debate. In the case of fees in the justice sector, which was mentioned by the representative Kaski, amendments to the Law on Legal Fees have already been made that have reduced public expenditure by about 10 %. Twenty-one million. kr to the police and approx. 55 million. to the courts. This work continues in future budgetary processes. In the case of forced sale of housing on the basis of small requirements, most of the cases are resolved before forced sale is carried out. The rules of the law protect the debtor from forced sale of the dwelling, with some exceptions. There are also schemes via Nav, both debt advice and debt regime, so overall, the debtor is quite well cared for under the current rules. Of course, it's very serious if someone has to leave home – you don't want it at all. So a comment to the representative Karin Andersen, who is concerned about the time-use of this. We are concerned with proper processing, not a large collection business. But it is in place to ask if the alarm called at SV's guard in the Ministry of Finance. Now we're going to clean up!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e746	The alarm has gone! We had a proposal for a debt register lying clear when this government took over, and it took them five years to get it in place. And when the proposal came, not all debts were covered. The large items were left out, and that means that if you take up consumption loans in addition to that, the debt traps can quickly fold back over the one in question. That means it's a big loss for it, it's often a big loss for creditors, and it's a big loss for society. So it's socio-economically profitable to get this system more under control. A proposal for a new Financial Contracts Act was submitted and sent to the hearing two and a half years ago. It hasn't come yet. When we have seen how the government is dragging its legs in these matters, we are worried, also about the sample that came yesterday, which has many good suggestions, and which SV is very happy to have come. But they could have gone further in cutting the payroll rates, especially for the larger requirements as well, as the representative Geelsvik of the Center Party was up and talking about. There are also people in the debt collection industry who have been out and pointed this out. But when the new Financial Contracts Act came, the industry obviously mobilized. They're going to do that now, too, because they make a lot of money that people get into debt problems. I then miss the fact that the government is much more offensive, first of all, to prevent people from coming there. Because now we have very aggressive pressure on people to be able to take up short-term, unsecured debts when you get into an economically difficult situation. Those who push these loans on people can take unlimited interest, and all these salaries that add up. Then everyone understands that it's impossible to pay the debt. We must prevent many of these from getting a debt they would never have had, and once they get that debt, the arrangements must be such that it is actually possible to operate the debt. Because otherwise people have to, for example. into the indebtedness scheme, as mentioned by the representative Foss. I'm very happy that we have it, but there are a lot of creditors who also lose a lot of money on it, because you've come into a situation where it's impossible to pay back what you actually owe. Then parts of the debt will be deleted. Me and SV want people not to get into these debt traps, and that they take up too much debt – be tricked and lured into it. But when they've taken up debt, the creditor also has to take a greater responsibility when they've given credit to people who shouldn't have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e761	A little from the background that we promoted this proposal, despite the fact that it has been clear that it was going to set up a working group and work on this, is that we want to look at a larger part of the problem than just the exactly salary size. That is what has been a bit of an SV point here today: Much of what has come from the working group is good – there are also points to improve the proposals. But they haven't looked at the totality of this area, both when it comes to the role of the reputable, when it comes to limiting people's taking up the kind of loans they can't serve, and how to make the creditor more responsible. There are many areas and fields that are not covered by what the working group has looked at. That's why I'm a little worried when the representative Foss – what to say – at least apparently presents it as if in the other areas that I've been involved in, among other things, the government has taken action, and it keeps going. Because it's quite obvious that there's a need to do more. When we talk about the forced sale of property and houses, it's because there are just examples of that, which are not handled well enough today. So my call to the majority and to the government is to be able to look at the whole picture and not limit itself to what the working group has presented today, so that we can tackle the growth in debt collection and consumption loans that we have seen in Norway. Finally, it is with respect to report that this growth has been very large in recent years. I am not blaming today's government for that, but it is still the government's responsibility to make proposals to the Storting to limit it. So it wasn't the same kind of growth in the mid-2000s, when SV had the Minister of Finance, as we've seen, for example. in the last eight years. I think we just have to collectively assume that this has come out of control.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e770	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e788	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The first speaker is, on behalf of Mr Frølich, Mr Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e797	A unanimous committee emphasises that the Norwegian courts are functioning well and generally have very high confidence in the population. The judges appear to be independent and neutral, and in general the courts deal with matters quickly and with high quality. This has a major impact on legal certainty, predictability and social stability. This also means that Norway is an attractive country for trade and investment. The mandate of the Court of Justice indicates that the framework conditions of the courts have changed in recent years. There are more and more cases before the courts, and they are generally more demanding than before, among other things. due to international influence on Norwegian law and society in general. This places great demands on the competence and capacity of the judges. The population and demography have also changed, among others. by means of immigration and that a greater proportion of the population live in central strata. Communication and working methods are changing as society digitisation takes place. The Court Commission unanimously concludes that the rights of property are facing major challenges and that structural changes are needed. That's the same message that's being delivered from the sorenic in my district, the Lister region of Agder. He says that the court is vulnerable in terms of competence and capacity, especially in terms of specialisation and if someone gets sick, but he sees opportunities to compensate for this without necessarily laying down and centralising to the larger cities. The Court of Justice Commission presented proposals for changes to the structure of the District Court in October 2019. Even before the sample received its report, the Senterpartiet has scrambled the entire work, for example. by promoting this proposal in May 2019, five months before the sample was to deliver its report. It cannot mean anything other than that the Central Party does not take it seriously, and that they ignore the Commission's work and conclusions, as also the National Audit Office recently presented in its report. Reference is made to wide variations in the level, efficiency and flexibility of the courts. The fact that the centre part and the entire red-green side do not see that there is a potential for making better use of the resources, and only asking for more money, is worrying. The conclusions of the Court of Justice Commission are not government policy. But when a heavy professional sample delivers an investigation that tries to tell the politicians what status is and what should be done, it's the least we can do to give it a serious treatment and not dismiss it, as the Center Party does before they've seen the content at all. According to the Court of Justice Commission, the small courts are empty at 80 p.m. the length of time, while the length of the main courts proceedings is such that criminals are given a penalty discount as compensation. This is not good and a poor use of the total capacity. We also have good examples of rights of way that have come together, and where the result is greater professional environment and better services to the users of the court. As I said, the Court's report is not the government's policy, but to do as the Center Party and say no to everything and stand with its back to the future is not, in our view, a dangerous path.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e816	Let there be no doubt: the Labour Party believes that the courts must be strengthened. The funding of the courts is affected by the level of the right-wing government's cheese needs through the ABE reform. In several places, there are now notices of decommissioning in the courts. We are in a time when the criminal justice chain is under great pressure, and in particular this is affecting people who are in longer queues to get their case dealt with in the courts. This threatens people's legal certainty, and it weakens the protection of victims by putting ordinary people's lives on hold while the criminals get a penalty discount. The country deserves to have a decentralised court structure. The working party is therefore critical of the fact that the court commission that has been set down first submitted its proposal for a new structure and then had to deliver the quality part of the setting in 2021. This should have been done at the same time, and it should have been presented in one setting. The Labour Party cannot accept a large-scale centralisation of our courts. In addition, we believe it is important that the proposal for major changes in the court structure be dealt with and voted on here at Stortinget. We therefore want to continue the practice of presenting questions of closures, mergers and location of courts to the Stortinget. The Labour Party believes that today's decentralised court structure is good, and does not see any arguments to suggest that it needs to be changed. The exemption is already in place for aggregation processes where there is local consensus. The Labour Party therefore wants a decentralised court structure where the focus is people's legal certainty, the quality of the courts, further digitisation and equality of law. In the light of this, we support the proposals made by the rapporteurs in paragraphs 1 and 3 and, in addition, promote the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the maintenance of the court structure of the day, with the exception of groupings anchored in a local consensus.’;» I bring it to the attention of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party's proposals in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e834	The representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e839	The Norwegian courts operate consistently well and have high confidence in the population. Nevertheless, the government has ordered an investigation that adds to a large-scale centralisation of courts throughout Norway. What is produced as an independent and fully suspended process on the future of the courts is, in reality, a process designed for centralisation. The government has set down a sample of 16 people, who are completely unrepresented from the districts, and has given a mandate with a clear message of centralisation. It started with the government ordering an investigation into the future of the courts – a broad investigation. The future structure would then be assessed in the light of a number of other issues. Instead, they chose to increase the structure in their own parts and get it as an investigation before all other questions were considered. So then the government follows the same recipe that it followed in the regional reform: let's draw a map first and look at the purpose of the map afterwards. That's what the Center Party believes is a completely backwards way of assessing big, important issues like structure. That is why we propose postponing the issue of a new court structure to the Court of Justice Commission is completely done with its job in 2020. One example is that the report to the Court of Justice proposes a new division of jurisdiction, while it is only in the next interim report that they should say something about who has the competence to make changes to the courts. This is a very central question when we decide how to break down our jurisdictions. At the same time as there is a debate on the structure of the courts, the government and the Directorate of the Courts, the administration of the Court of Justice, advance centralisation through administrative decisions. There are many examples of: Halden District Court – which in 2018 was subject to Fredrikstad District Court with common management, Fosen District Court – which in 2018 was placed under the South Trøndelag District Court with common management, and Sunnhordland District Court on Stord – which in 2019 was subject to Haugaland District Court with common management, even though Sunnhordland himself wanted to be joined with Hardanger. Continuously, smaller or decommissioned courts are refused to hire new people, upgrade their premises or digitise. The government and the court administration force them to cling to evolution and then use it as an argument to shut them down. The resources of the courts have been scarce for a long time, and the Central Party believes it is very unfortunate that the government is forcing centralisation through budget cuts and administrative decisions. It happens outside democracy, and it could be a threat to the independence of the courts. The number of rights is e.g. have already been reduced since we launched this proposal last year, and it has not been decided in the Storting. In the examination of the 2016 state budget, Stortinget voted down proposals for the abolition of many District Courts, and that was because it was too poorly investigated. Then it's a little special that only three years later you can put down a dish without anchoring it in the Stortinget. I would like to welcome the Council of State to work for its first day in Stortinget as Minister of Justice. She is perhaps the state council that is best known for centralisation in Norway after having coerced states and municipalities as municipal ministers. The government has now appointed a new district minister and seems to have become a little more concerned with the districts than before. I'm very excited if it will also apply to the justice field. The government is trying to be district friendly. At the same time, the Reform Queen has been given the position of Minister of Justice in the middle of the debates on police reform and judicial reform. If the government is to have some credibility that they want to pursue a good rural policy, they must start by stopping the proposal of massive closures in the courts and stopping the administrative processes leading to centralisation without democratic anchoring. I believe that the first task of the Minister of Justice for the State Council of Malta should be to scrap the proposal for the massive abolition of courts, otherwise large parts of the population of Norway will be weakened by legal certainty, very long routes and high costs that will be passed on to them. The representative Ingunn Foss criticized us for criticizing them. We were out of criticism last year, and that was not because we could predict – that was because we can add two and two. When we see a mandate that is centralising, and a commission that is not made up of district representatives, it goes without saying that it will provide centralisation. It's not worse. I end with that and will address our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e864	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has taken up the proposal she referred to. The President would say that if he understood correctly and the representative used a characteristic of the Council of State, it was unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e871	I would also like to begin by congratulating the new Council of State on her new job and wish her good luck in the important work. The Court has presented its proposal for a new structure, and there have been many reactions. It is important to have a judicial structure in Norway that maintains both high quality and professional expertise in the work being done, while at the same time providing good coverage throughout the country. At present, there are no structural changes to be addressed, but if it is proposed, the Party shall decide on it. We are committed to ensuring both – that you have good professional quality in the work done in the courts around you, and that you do not have accommodation in too few places at the same time. We believe it will be wrong to vote in favour of this proposal when there is no change to the subject at present, and will come back with our position if there are proposals for change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e878	Thank you to the representative Emilie Enger Mehl, who has done a very thorough job, I would say, in presenting this documentation and providing thorough arguments for this. We will continue this debate later, also in an interview later today. I'm basically concerned that we're going to build a good legal state in Norway. We have a phenomenal state of law in Norway, which the new Minister of Justice will now be allowed to lead. There is little crime in Norway, and there is great trust in both the police and our courts. This must be the case, and it must be the task of the Grand Duchy to ensure the necessary reform work, so that the confidence in the rule of law is further strengthened among the peoples. That means that the institutions of the rule of law must be close to people. People have to experience that the police are present in their lives, they also have to experience that the courts are near them, so that they escape a long and difficult working path, and they have to know the local character of the courts. In this way, they also gain greater confidence in the decisions that the courts are actually making. This means that SV is opposed to the massive centralization to which it is now based. We believe that a decentralised court structure is absolutely essential. This does not mean that we should freeze today's situation; local changes based on a type of local consensus may make sense. We definitely don't want to oppose change, for different reasons. The main problem, as many have pointed out, is, of course, that the courts are faced with economic cuts. This leads to overwork and overtime for those who work there, and a long period of time, as pointed out by the Riksrevisor. This can ultimately lead to poorer quality in the decisions taken, which is a legal security problem. Here we have an example that if we tighten up the economy of the courts too much, it can weaken people's confidence in the courts, which is a serious problem. I'm 99 pst. agree with the intent of the Center Party, now I'm going to poke a little bit at the one percent I don't agree with. We have chosen not to support the proposal of the Centre Party and the principle that the courts must be based on local volunteering. You have to correct me if I'm wrong, but it can be read as if the room – whether it's the local court, the municipality or whoever it might be – should have a kind of veto when it comes to changes. I think that is a difficult principle. The courts are one of three national courts. The three state powers must be allocated, allocated, and the allocation of resources must be based on the needs of the nation, not just on the local needs. Nor can it be such that it is e.g. shall be a local veto when it comes to determining where we are going to have military camps or police stations. These are national resources and need to be allocated nationally. The proposal of the centre party, which we do not support, will prevent the accumulation and government from making good national decisions relating to the decentralised distribution of our courts. Nor do I think the principle of local volunteering is very good district policy, because there is one single resource, the courts, which the Stortinget decides, and if it is added to a type of local veto right, the different districts, the different jurisdictions, will be set up against each other. One court will then compete out another. This is really very little district friendly, because when the different districts are set up against each other, it is about getting to the mill first and fixing their local veto right all first. We're 99 pst. agree with the Senterpartiet. We want to have the greatest possible degree of decentralised court structure, so we support the arguments that have come up, but we therefore think the proposal for the principle of local volunteering is going a little too far.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e893	I too would like to congratulate the Council of State on a new position and wish you every success. The Christian People's Party looks forward to good cooperation in this regard. The Court of Justice has now made part of one of its work and recommendations. It's a government assignment. The Christian People's Party believes that all aspects of public institutions, administration and structure must at all times endure a review and critical assessment. So in this round, we're dealing with things and circuits. Later, part two, a new report and an inquiry from the Commission, which looks more at quality, content and working methods. These two together will provide the country with a judicial function to be adapted to our time and to the needs of society. The Christian People's Party will therefore stress that today's theme concerns the Commission's own proposal and the question of consultation, not the matter itself. So the proposal is not government policy, but the government will decide on how to organise the hearing. I do not conceal that the Christian People's Party shares some of the concerns of the proposers. The question of structure cannot be considered in isolation and solely on the basis of the criteria which the Commission has highlighted on a professional basis. That is why the Christian People's Party was only out to be critical of the Commission's proposal for restructuring – yes, almost before it was presented. Legal certainty, specialisation and efficiency and technical improvements in justice do not eliminate the need to make thorough assessments of districts and borders, regional conditions and economics, and the related location of courts. There are issues of total impact and social costs, and other impacts on communities that may lose their right of way. There are also questions about how ordinary people, businesses and institutions experience changes. They need to be heard. These are factors that need to be assessed and taken into account, and are weighted against optimal resource use in the straight line in isolation. However, the Commission has done a solid piece of professional work. The rest is now politics. The Christian People's Party prefers this work to be seen in a larger context. It does not mean simplifying the question of or against centralisation, as the Central Party is now doing in its proposal. I can't. Equally important are legal certainty, quality throughout the process, flexibility, specialisation and competence in demanding matters and their use of resources. The Christian People's Party today is voting against the proposals put forward and is confident that the government will handle the further steps wisely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e910	The government is committed to ensuring that citizens throughout the country have a good and equivalent court offer. It is very important for me to stress that the Court of Justice's investigation is not an expression of the government's policy, but of a professional recommendation. On the part of the government, we have not yet taken a decision on how to follow up the recommendations. The Commission points to some clear challenges, and we must take this seriously. Since the Ministry gave its opinion to the draft representative, the Riksrevision has delivered its report on the length and effectiveness of the proceedings and the law. The National Audit Office points to several of the same challenges with which the Court Commission justifies its structural proposal, such as wide variations in efficiency and in the lack of flexibility between courts. The Court of Justice has worked beyond two years before submitting its first sub-examination on structure. I would like to stress that the Court of Justice has worked in parallel with both investigations, and not dealt with the structural issue in isolation. It is clear from NOU 2019: 17 that the Commission considers that: «the core tasks will be carried on and that it is not appropriate to take out or introduce major areas of action in the sub-research II to change the basis for the assessment of the structural issue». On that basis, I cannot see that there is reason to delay the processing of the Court's deliberations on the structure until the Commission's second and last interim investigation is available. The Commission has stressed that courts should be able to adapt to future changes in tasks, types of cases or quantities of cases in their structural proposals to a greater extent than at present. Let me then say something about the proposal to stop decisions on aggregation and joint management until the Commission has completed its work. The majority of the Committee points out that, when examining the 2016 state budget, the Storting rejected a number of proposals on structural changes in the courts, mainly on the grounds that the proposals were too poorly addressed. So we just received a thorough investigation. I do not think there is any basis for further postponement of the treatment of structural changes. The main objective of the single management system is to increase flexibility, improve resource use and reduce the vulnerability of the courts. The aim is in line with both the recommendations of the Court of Justice and the Court of Auditors on increased flexibility between the courts. I stress that joint management does not rock the court structure. The courts governed by the single management system are independent entities, so there is no question of putting one court under another. In addition, it seems to me that the common management courts are satisfied with how the system works. Joint management can contribute to some increase in flexibility and efficiency, but does not produce much the same effect as merging courts – extending to larger courts. It is up to the Administrative Board of the Court of Justice to adopt and establish joint management of courts. In exceptional cases, the Management Board may provide that two or more courts shall have joint management. The Management Board has decided that joint management shall be assessed when a vacancy arises as the head of the court. The Ministry has assessed whether the decisions on joint management are an individual decision that can be converted by the Ministry but has come to the conclusion that there is an administrative decision that does not trigger the right of appeal. The decision on joint management by the Court of Justice is therefore not subject to review by the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg or the Government. I fully agree with the majority that independent courts are a clear prerequisite for a well-functioning rule of law. As the third state power, the courts have a very central position in a democratic rule of law. The independence of the Court of Justice is one of the most central features of a rule of law. The establishment of the Court of Justice administration in 2002 was precisely justified by the fact that independence is also based on administrative support under the independence of the judiciary. The specific nature of the Courts should be the starting point for any debate. In order to better understand the operational situation of the courts, we asked the Court of Justice to analyse the operational situation of the courts following the introduction of the ABE reform. The consultancy company Metier has carried out such an analysis on behalf of the Court of Justice. One of the findings of the report is that the courts have managed to reduce manning costs without jeopardising the core business. The number of judges and investigators has increased between 2014 and 2018, so it shows that they have done a reform without losing important competences.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e935	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e940	In the past, the Prime Minister has given a wise opinion: ‘Both residence and working environment affect perspectives and knowledge acquisition, including professional experts. The government must therefore be better placed to gain professional expertise from environments outside the Capital Region.’» There are undoubtedly competent professionals in the Commission, with broad professional competence. Nevertheless, it is very problematic that the Commission has had a distorted representation. There has been a lack of representatives from small and medium-sized courts in this work. If it had been in place, it could have given other assessments and opinions than those expressed in the Commission's report, which would probably have given a good perspective, especially for the districts of our long-term country. Does the Council agree with this assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e950	My starting point is that the wit is very well distributed in this country, and that we should use the whole country when we get advice. I have gained experience – because it has been my job to prepare me quite quickly for all of these matters we have today – that the Court Commission has been represented from all over the country, including from places with less connection. In particular, the Commission shall: the leader of the land change in Sunnfjord and the External Sogn Right of Change in Förde, which is a small court. The Commission also has a member from Tromsø, who is a team judge in the second smallest law of the law, and who is also the head of the Finnish Foreign Court. The Commission also has two members from Ålesund, one of whom is the sorenner in Sunnmøre District Court, which is a small or medium-sized court. You'll always be able to criticise the composition, but here's both the subject law, the law of law and the Supreme Court, and in addition, they've had an out-of-the-way business. So I think we're going to trust the integrity of the sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e957	Should the representative have another line? You have to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e962	Sorry, President, I was busy listening to the Council of State. While it is clear that there has been good competence in the Commission, the majority of the Committee has pointed out during the examination of this matter that the small district courts and the land change courts sent 39 proposals to the Court of Justice administration to members of the Commission, and none of these proposals were taken into account in its composition. So there was no shortage of possibilities to take in even more skilled professionals from outside ring 3. The majority therefore believe that it is both a pity and remarkable fact that none of these proposals for good candidates were taken into account. Can the Council of State share this assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e969	So I'm not going that far. This Commission has had 16 members. Several of them I have explained, they come from small and medium-sized courts. And it's a commission that's had a very out-of-date business, and that's wanted to get a tape. I believe that rather than go into the composition of the Commission, you should look at the proposals and discuss them. Of course, it's allowed to be very disagreeable with them. I understand. I understand that these are important issues for the Court of Justice, but that of course is also policy and district policy. I don't have a problem with that. But when it comes to composition, I have confidence in the composition we've had, and trust that it's professionalism and integrity that have given us the suggestions we now have on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e976	We in the Central Party have received solid doses of criticism because we thought it was right to keep a decentralised court structure before the Court Commission submitted its report. Looks like we made a hasty conclusion that time. Today, we hear in the House of the Right Grandfather Ingunn Foss say that the Center Party says no to everything and has its back on the future. The right’s way of saying yes – and standing back to the past – is evident to deny small courts digitisation and some places new, fixed settings. And they have, among other things, stop the construction of a new warehouse in Molde, long before the Commission report came forward, by referring to future structural processes. If the intention was to make it appear that the government has not been prepared to make major structural changes before the Commission's report came, does the Council of State think that the procedure to the Right and the Government is a source of confidence?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e985	I hear the Central Party tell what's the problem with this report, and I hear what you're against. What I don't hear is what you're for. So we've seen big changes in this area as well, and the question, of course, is how we're going to deal with it. The government has increased dramatically the investments in the digitisation of the courts – 364 million. kr from 2014 until today – so there is a major digitisation work going on. And we're going to keep doing that. But does it solve the main challenge, namely inequalities in small and large district courts? Does it solve the need for competence, and does it solve the developments we see? After all, the government has not decided that you have six times more lawyers per capita in the Oslo area than you have, for example. has in Westland. So there are some completely different structural changes going on here, which means that we also have to discuss structure in this area. It's hard and it's painful, but I think we have to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e990	The Council of State was concerned with this with the power of the Court of Justice to adopt joint management. She said that the ministry does not have the opportunity to review those decisions because it is not a single decision but an administrative decision. That's a good thing. Access to joint management is in a regulation based on Section 33 of the Law of the Court of Justice, and it is an access which the Court of Justice has, with the condition ‘in exceptional cases’. But we see in practice that common management is being decided almost consistently, for example. where someone is going to retire, or where there is a vacancy. In that case, the Court of Justice will have joint management with another district court rather than an employee of a new janitor. And it looks like there's a principle that you get joint management through retirement, and not in ‘special cases’. So then my question is whether the Council of State believes it is necessary to tighten that regulation, since the administration of the Court goes far beyond what was really meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e997	I have no reason to believe that this regulation should be tightened up. I have opposed the grounds for believing that the independence of the courts is absolutely essential for our state of law. That is why I am very concerned that we are not politicizing such questions, but that the courts are organizing themselves in the way they think that they are getting the best use of their resources and can make good professional decisions. It's important to all of our people. So my starting point is that this is a question where I leave to the court administration to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1002	We have seen that the Commission is fragmented and that smaller and medium-sized courts do not experience representation there and do not feel understood. I would like to refer to a quote from the report that I think underlines it, where the Commission is trying to discuss whether types of personality can be related to geography and how effective people are. It says: ‘Some of the differences in productivity between courts may, for example, be due to different types of personality applying to different courts. It is possible to imagine, but not necessarily likely, that there may be an excess of particularly productive persons in larger courts. In this case, all or part of the effect attributed to the size of the court will in reality be due to the characteristics of the employees. Similarly, it may also be the opposite, i.e. more productive people apply to smaller courts.’ I find it quite disrespectful to discuss whether personality types are relevant in such a context. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1013	The representative invites me to discuss the Commission's report and its contents. I would recommend that you do that with the Commission. So this is not the government's position on the Storting. This is an independent professional assessment, and if you want to know more about it, you have to ask those who have done it. We haven't. Now we're going to review the proposals that are coming, and then we're going to deal with them properly and in the way that we think is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1018	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1025	Our courts are entirely decisive for the rule of law, and a lack of structure in the courts is conducive to the existence of the rule of law throughout the country. The trust in Norwegian courts is very high among the inhabitants, and this is of great value to our society. We never have to take this for granted. One thing is the trust that people have in the judiciary, another is the trust that people have in political processes. People in this country should have reason to believe that processes that go into government and here on the Biggest are reasonable. Unfortunately, the process of the government when it comes to the judicial structure cannot be said to be so. The centre party has therefore submitted proposals which may remedy this situation. Our goal is to ensure that the issue of structural changes is considered in conjunction with everything else that the Court Commission was asked to settle when they first received their mandate from the government. The advanced deadline for the exact question of structural changes, together with the lopsided composition of the Court Commission, has led to strong reactions throughout the Court of Justice of Norway and also to political conflict. The goal of the government was probably to bring together the courts with the most possible tranquillity in the sea around them, but instead they have made sure to whip up the sea vigorously before they sailed the boat, in this case a boat full of conspiracy suggestions from the Court Commission. The representatives of the government clearly want to whip up the sea even a little more, as we can see in the comments in the setting of this matter. It says so. from the Right and the Advance Party: ‘These members are set to take the work of the Court of Justice to a thorough and serious approach as opposed to the Workers’ Party and the Centre’s Party. These members find it alarming that such extensive work by our leading experts in the field was carried out so quickly.’ Just a little further down, type Right and the Advance Party on: ‘A judge’s job is to read all relevant documentation in a case, so listen to both parties and then think carefully. Only then will it come to a conclusion. These members consider that the Workers' Party and the Centre could be inspired by this working method.» As most people probably understand, I don't read this as the Right Party and the Progress Party have written, because I'm particularly impressed with what they're writing. On the contrary, I do it to show how arrogance can be overcome in committee comments too. If we try to interpret what they say, it's easy to assume that they think it's unthinkable to disagree with their positions. If they were really concerned about listening to the top experts in the field, it is sad that they themselves do not see that it is a problem that the Court Commission consisted of none – I repeat: none – representatives from the smaller courts. We in the Center Party already emphasized before the government put down the Commission, that such a selection had to have a wide composition, and that we wanted to focus on geography, service and accessibility for the public. Perhaps the Right Party and the Progress Party could also be wise in listening to us in between and getting inspired by our working method, which is listening to people around the whole country. In this case, it would have meant in practice that they had to listen also to the smaller courts and to the areas around these courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1048	The President noted that the term ‘arrogance’ was not to be regarded as a good parliamentary practice and was previously mentioned in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1053	Former Supreme Court Judge Jens Edvin Skoghöhe said to the Court of Justice24 on 26 December 2019: ‘In my opinion, the Court of Justice has overruled the professional argument. It's not that the quality of the courts increases proportionally by size. In my time as a judge in the Supreme Court, I do not remember that the major district courts were particularly positive. I think I'd rather say, rather the opposite! Many smaller courts refer to good judgment, and it was not “gold” all that came from Oslo district court!’ I beg the Council of State to notice that. The Commission’s mandate was extended by an additional mandate. The additional mandate was for the treatment of child protection cases and disputes between parents. The mandate was such that the conclusion was given in practice before the Commission completed its work. It has been confirmed by the participants who worked on the case. The process around it reinforces the mistrust that has remained in this matter. The government was so bold that the appointed Administrative Director Urke, at the Administrative Board of the Court of Justice, refused to include proposals for many representatives from the small and medium-sized courts who had a different vote. It is also funny that experts skip themes such as history, the basis for today’s high trust and, last but not least, the cost of the proposal. The latter should be able to do more about the sample than about the quality of the legal decisions. Is it good legal policy in 2020 not to eliminate costs or negative consequences, much less counter-arguments? A State Council from the Right should share the Central Party’s concerns about power concentration and bureaucracy. The proposal involves not only the disappearance of 38 local sorenists, but the return of the 22 to the court. It involves, together with an offensive court administration, a concentration of bureaucratic power. Professor Hans Petter Graver has said: ‘Aggregate cases may go beyond legal certainty.’ We need to have a public debate on the position outside the country. Why shut down well-functioning tracts like Kongsberg and Eiker, for example? We need to get answers from the Right. The centre party will maintain District Courts with popular support. We're not going to accept what's the strategy: if you don't want to, you're going to -- we're going to deal with the economy and the lack of ICT solutions in the little thing rights. That is not decent behaviour of a government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1074	The situation attached to the courts is a case that is spreading on many levels of the Storting a day. Among other things, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is working on the examination by the National Audit Office of the processing time and effectiveness of law enforcement, including: has had an open call with several of the parties listed in this option. The background to the proposal for a representative to be handled here today is a series of administrative decisions in the Court of Justice to merge the rental of property courts, including Sunnhordland's jurisdiction to Haugaland's jurisdiction against the district court's own will. The Right Party and the Progress Party have criticised several of the parties in the Committee's work not to take up the facts and listen to the parties, and also to respect the progress and treatment of the work of the expert selection. Such representation and not least the appearance of these members must be treated without listening to the people, the municipalities, the regions and not least the sorrenprinter in particular. Sunnhordland District Court. In the open ear ring that happened 14 days ago, there was a number of moments. Among other things, there was great despair over the ABE reform of its unconditional cuts, which in the courts have considerable negative consequences. The ABE reform takes no account of ongoing work, either in the Stortinget, in expert selection or in government. For Sunnhordland, this had a direct impact on the structure when the sorenprinter Knut Gramstad was going to retire. The ABE reform did not give access to recruiting new sorenprinters through the approach of the Court of Justice to not admitting by natural departure. Furthermore, the administration of the Court of Justice in the open hearing could not answer for why the merged Bergen district court today is with the longest case-handling time of all the country's district courts. This was in spite of the fact that Nordhordland’s district court was merged with the district court in 2017 and so should be an exhibition window for thought aggregations and restructuring processes. Finally, I would like to highlight the lack of involvement of the rights of property in the ongoing efforts to improve efficiency and reform. If you are going to be closed with a conversion, the Court of Justice cannot define and score what and how to measure the courts. With this as a back ground, it is absolutely necessary to suspend the proceedings and follow the recommendation of the Committee to wait for further decisions on the merger and joint lease until final clearance by the Court of Justice is forthcoming.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1087	I think it is a little special that the Council of State will not take a position on the content of the report at all. I also think it is particularly important that the government parties do not have the ability to see that the composition of the Commission, the process and the cleanliness of its reduction – the work that is taking place parallel to the administration of the Court of Justice – is important, and that they are not concerned about it, and that they are not at all concerned when we have an administration operating with structural changes in parallel with the discussions that are taking place in democracy. It's going to be consistently defecated. When we in the Central Party get criticism for having presented our criticism before the Commission made its report, I believe that it shows Right's lack of insight into the process behind the report. If you've been involved in how the Commission was set up, who was in it, and what was the mandate, it's not hard to understand how we could criticise the report before it came. Last March, for example, we said. That we feared that two thirds of the country's District Courts could be history, and that was exactly what was proposed. It's not because we're good at guessing, it's because we saw that the court commission had received clear orders. They were asked to look to previous investigations, including: an investigation by the Court of Justice which made up to a minimum of 8 to 10 years of judicial activity. If you're going to follow it, you're going to have to put down two thirds of the country's District Courts. I believe that the process around what the courts will look like in the future is of very high importance, because the courts are very important to Norway. They are a state power, they are important to the population, and it must be a clean process. That's also why I've promoted an interpellation about exactly that: how the conditions around the Court Commission affect the value that the report can have. There will be the next debate in the Chamber today. It's going to be exciting to see if Right wants to get involved in that debate as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1098	The centralisation will apparently not end up under the government of Solberg, with the support of the government parties and the Progress Party. You can't keep pushing the Court Commission in front of you. I am not going to spend as much time on the investigations and recommendations that come from there, but in parallel with the so-called process that the Court Commission is running, there are so-called voluntary processes going on. In Eastfold, for example, since the last round, when the majority of the population put their foot down for the merger of rights of property, there has been a pressure from some for several mergers, despite the fact that both some sorenics, judges, trust-chosen and not least local communities have been strong opponents. In the context of the retirement of some sorendids, joint management has been introduced by Halden Dichrett and Fredrikstad Dichret, although it is stated in the majority voting that there are particular reasons for doing so. It might look like there's some kind of pinching maneuver you're trying to get. There has been a so-called voluntary agreement between the two and Sarpsborg District Courts and Moss District Courts, without other considerations relating to the work of the Court of Justice or other regional considerations. What about the District Court in Lower Follo? What about Heggen and Frøland canvassing? So you haven't taken that into account, and then finally you get a court structure that's not related to anything. A merger of the district court should therefore not be based on an agreement between individual authoritative persons, but should be well justified on a professional basis. It cannot be said to be the case, for example. in Eastfold. A better professional assessment has not been considered. An investigation of an overall structure has not been undertaken. Size not assessed. Localisation has not been evaluated either. But it has been said that it is a voluntary merger because these three sorren writers, who now manage four district courts, have entered into a so-called voluntary agreement, to the strong opposition of the communities, elected representatives, judges and others to these district courts. It is said by some that the few take advantage of the court, so therefore the route is not an argument. With that logic, we could have one thing right across the country. More importantly, it is for those who actually use the rights of property, such as lawyers, prosecution authorities, experts and witnesses who are involuntarily involved in a case. Then counting the proximity, then counting the travel path. Everyone should be served with a fundamental and thorough debate and a political debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1111	In this debate, the Council of State has underlined the independence of the courts and the essential rule of law underlying this. I agree with that, of course, there is no doubt about it. But it's obvious that the starvation of the courts suggests that they have to make changes, and in the cases we see now, a collection and closure of some courts, which is also part of the basis of the Commission's work. Thus, there is reason to discuss whether there are government appropriations that set the limit here, and not the independence of the courts. Several law firms we have been in contact with say that they have to put the business down locally and move to the district court where they are newly established. It is about securing the necessary income for the company. In this way, we are at risk of draining the districts for necessary legal competences — if too many local property rights are moved without a proper socio-economic review of a number of ring-effects. This will obviously affect people's legal certainty. It is therefore not possible to look in isolation at the ABE form, or at the Commission's proposal, as the Council of State has been tempted to do today. The point is that everything needs to be seen in the context, and to ensure legal certainty for all citizens of the country and with the strength and further development of the rule of law, it is important to see things in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1124	I'm not going to start a big discussion about word usage in the hall, but the previous president pointed out that the word "arrogance" was unparliamentary. I can accept that, but I still think it is alarming that it is not possible to use the word "arrogance" on the content of committee comments, while it is entirely right for a right-wing representative to say that the centre party is against everything. I can't say it's a lie, because it would be unparliamentary, but I want to point out the dilemma that at least I myself come into when I'm going to answer the claim that the Center Party is against everything and with my back to the future. What's why I'm dealing with this is that in all the choices that politicians make, we have to say yes or no. All directions mean yes or no, but that doesn't mean that those who take the one direction option are always the ones who stand for the positive and the amazing and what drags us into the future in the best possible way. Wanting to preserve structures, which in this case have led us to have a court system that people have very high confidence in, is also a way to say yes to something, and of course no to something else. But what we in the Center Party absolutely say yes to is to replace this government at the next major elections, so we're getting to grips that hopefully can bring the country in a more sensible and positive direction than the government of today is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1132	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1151	The Court of Justice report on the structure of the courts was submitted on 1 October 2019. The sample recommends reducing the number of rights of tenure from 60 to 22 and the number of rights to land change from 34 to 13. So they want to put two thirds of the country's courts in the first instance. I believe there are several aspects of the report that have weakened its value as a starting point for a future court structure. These include: point 1: the composition of the Commission, point 2: the mandate of the government to the Commission which gave clear leadership on centralisation, point 3: the lack of counter-contradiction and discussion for and against, and point 4: that the sample does not regard actual cases as quality in the courts, such as the number of decisions taken by other bodies. I want to go into point 1 -- the Commission's composition. The court commission originally consisted of 15 members, but the government was criticised for the lack of representation from the small and medium-sized courts. Thus, the soren writer in Sunnmøre was added as a member in Ålesund – and this despite the fact that none of the small things were perceived by her as their representative. If the government had wanted a broad commission, it would have been a simple matter, because the small and medium-sized courts had a whole 39 proposals for people who could represent them, but no one could make room. The court administration, DA, has worked for centralisation for a number of years. They were given the power to influence the composition of the Commission and to have their Director as a member of the Commission. The Government has been clear that the Commission should be independent. It should have been a point of view that the Commission has a certain critical distance from the Trade DG, which is the Administration of the Court of Justice, but instead the Director of the DA himself is placed in the Commission and gets their agenda, which is well known from before, namely that the courts must be centralised. It's a vision that's shared opinions about otherwise in the Court of Justice-Norway. The Court administration also had a clear call for the composition of the Commission in a letter to the Ministry of Justice, where they wrote: ‘Members of the Commission should have demonstrated the ability and willingness to think new and to be reform-oriented.’ In October 2019, I asked a written question to the Prime Minister about district representation in public selection, advice and governance, based on the fact that the Court Commission and the Power Taxation Committee, which had just advanced their reports, actually had 20 out of 23 members from larger cities. None of them had representations from power-communities or law courts threatened with closure. On that question, the Prime Minister replied that ‘the Oslo region is over-represented in public authorities and in the governing bodies of companies owned by the State’ and that the government must become ‘smart to gain professional expertise from environments outside the Capital Region’. And she said something very important: that ‘both the place of residence and the work environment affect perspectives and knowledge, this also applies to professionals’. So the Prime Minister admitted that district representation is important for getting a good picture. The damage has now happened, and the Court of Justice has delivered its structural report, but I believe that the composition does something about the value that that report can have as the basis for a major structural reform when large parts of the Court of Justice-Norway are not invited to sit around the table. So to paragraph 2 – the mandate of the government: In examining the 2016 state budget, the Stortinget voted down proposals for extensive centralisation in the courts, which were then mainly justified by insufficient investigation, and in front of it had proposed to merge 35 District Courts to 12 and 4 Land Change Courts to 2. At that time, the Court of Justice Commission was put down, which was to discuss the future of the courts – until 2020. It was really meant to be a broad discussion of issues such as digitisation, organisation, security, resources, tasks, independence and structure in the light of these other issues. But then the government changed plans in spring 2018 and ordered an urgent investigation on structure detached from the rest, which came in autumn 2019. The mandate that gave clear leadership on centralisation. It was also announced that the sample would be based on previous investigations and proposals, including DA’s 2010 recommendation on a minimum of eight-ten years in each court, which would in that case mean that two-thirds of today’s District Courts do not have the right to life, and that was exactly what was the result of the Court’s investigation. So to point 3 – lack of counter-dictation and counter-representation: the government put together a commission of 16 members that does not reflect different interests and counter-arguments, and gave them a mandate to centralise the courts. The result of the two things we see in the report, which recommends centralisation, and it is not particularly surprising when centralisation is ordered. And as a result of the mandate, the sample leaves much visible counter-representations, counter-arguments or alternative solutions to its recommendations. Nor has there been any discussion of possibilities for improvement within today's structure because it has been omitted from the mandate. I'll give you some examples. Extensive use of judges has been highlighted as a problem, especially in small courts — on page 41. It's in itself an interesting find. The problem is that it is used exclusively as an argument for centralisation. There is no discussion at any time that one could simply solve it with e.g. appointing a judge instead of an agent. On page 43, it is argued that small legal circles create instability challenges. It is presented as a major problem, and a concrete example from a case in Southern Sunnmare District Court is used. But if you talk to the small courts, you'll hear that this is being handled in a good way today, by transferring cases to another court on issues of stability. And the specific case used by the Court of Justice as an example of horror is, in reality, seen as a constructive and good solution to the Court of Justice. And it doesn't come out in the report at all. There is a continuous premise to centralize, and sometimes it appears that the Commission has tried to find arguments that are appropriate to an already given solution. In some places, things that seem to be pure speculation come to light. On page 44, it is speculated that the Commission believes that the threshold for lawyers to complain against sorenners in small courts is higher than in large, without any concrete findings being supported. On page 70, where the Commission finds no explanation for a relationship between productivity and size, they state that it is ‘not unreasonable to assume that a professional community is also necessary in the exercise of judgment’, without going into the nuance of this. It is not mentioned at all that the rule of law is highly individual and that, in the case of professional updating as a course and as a follow-up, the offer is similar to that of all judges, irrespective of the size of the court. And on page 72, the Commission is trying to discuss whether personality types can be related to efficiency and geography, which I think is a very strange discussion from a serious commission. It is speculated that more productive people choose to work in larger dishes. Ergo's bigger dish is good. So it's also mentioned that it can be the opposite, but it's also used as an argument for larger things, because without the particularly productive people, the small things would have been even worse than they already are. And it doesn't help, in my eyes, that the Commission is trying to balance the argument itself. At all, drawing up an analysis as to whether this is completely irrelevant and shows more than anything else that centralisation is the given premise, and then you have tried to find arguments that build up under it. Contradiction is a fundamental principle of law. Different arguments are to be presented in a case, and they are to be weighed against each other, and that the public investigation that is to underpin a judicial reform, even has such a great lack of nuances and counter-arguments, I think is both ironic and very worrying. So a little about point 4 - Quality, efficiency and productivity targets in the courts: The Court Commission claims that the quality is lower in the smaller courts, but if that was the case, we would see that decisions from small courts were more often suspended by law enforcement, and the Commission cannot prove that. Instead, a number of analyses of productivity and efficiency are cited as the basis for the Commission’s conclusions, including: the frequency with which courtrooms are used. It says nothing about the quality of judgments. And the analyses referred to in the report show more than anything else that there is a difference both in large and in small dish dishes; both large and small works well and bad. Nevertheless, it is used exclusively as an argument for the centralisation of the courts. Rather, it is always against being in favour of the major courts, although the data base is uncertain and actually shows that there are no major differences between small and large courts. So my question to the Council of State is, how does the Council of State think that these matters that I have raised here affect the value of the Court's investigation as the basis for making changes to the court structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1189	Let me start by thanking the representative for the interpellation. The courts deserve our attention, and I believe the Court Commission has now provided us with a basis for a knowledge-based discussion of court structure. Thus, the Commission recommends greater jurisdictions and fewer courts than we have today, and this proposal has received — not unexpected — very much attention. That is the way it is – and I must stress this, since the sentence and page by page have received an article from the interpellant – that we have not decided by the government how to follow up this setting. Nor will we consider the specific proposals until the investigation has been at the hearing, and before all those affected by the proposals have been given the opportunity to comment. This is simply because consultation is a crucial part of a government’s decision-making basis. The Courts of Justice are not as other State activities. They constitute the third state power and shall respect and ensure legal certainty for each citizen. The Commission describes some of the challenges of today's structure that I believe we must at least take seriously and discuss. Several of the challenges described are known from previous structural reforms and the investigation by the SEC. The National Audit Office also points to several of the same challenges as the Commission in its examination of the length and effectiveness of the Courts and Lawyers’ Rights. I'm not going to go into the depths of the challenges now, but I want to show that the Commission is drawing out that smaller courts are vulnerable. They are vulnerable to absence and unforeseen incidents, it is challenging to recruit to these courts, and the burden between courts is different. The Commission considers that small courts are less able to operate in the development of their competences and have challenges in developing top-notch competences in central judicial areas and in facilitating moderate specialisation. It is also worth taking into account in the discussion that in the courts it is a strong will and a desire for larger professional environments. It also gives the Court of Justice and the Judicial Association its support. The Commission’s mission in this exercise has been to propose the overall criteria for a sustainable judicial structure and, in the light of the criteria, to analyse socio-economic profitability and to propose a concrete judicial structure at the level of the first and second instance and of the rights of landslides. As mentioned above, the government has considered that there has been a need for a change in structure, and therefore several mergers were proposed already in the 2016 government budget. But it is also the case that the Court Commission is an independent expert body, and is thus in no way bound by government policy. This is not an order shop. I assume that it is professionalism and integrity that underlie the recommendations we have received. It is such that the Commission was asked to recommend changes to the judicial structure, and it is about strengthening legal certainty, maintaining high trust in the courts and improving resource use. There are cross-cutting reasons that argue both for and against changes, and therefore I cannot agree with the representative’s statement that the Commission does not make any significant arguments against its recommendations visible. In addition, the Commission assesses different measures that take into account the overall considerations, such as: digitisation and change of work process. Most of the inhabitants of Norway rarely visit the court — fortunately, we are told. Nevertheless, the Commission stressed, inter alia, that: travel time. The Commission also sees the burden of travel reduced by remote conference techniques, online solutions or more mobile judges. No matter who's going to be in government in the next few years, the economic space is going to get tighter. Therefore, I believe that the courts have to rely on more efficient operation in order to provide high-quality services in the future. It is also the case that the Riksrevision believes it is critical that the potential to streamline the rights of property has not been exploited to a greater extent. The Commission has identified the capacity utilisation in the approximately 400 property courts to be an average of 30 pst. It is not cost-effective to invest in courts and courts that are used very little. The Commission points out that digitisation and improvement of labour processes are important instruments, but that the judicial structure needs to be structured in such a way as to ensure the smooth and efficient use of resources. The courts have a separate responsibility to provide active case management in the courts, and both this and the use of the legal instruments in general can be easily followed up in courts with larger professional environments and more professional management. Interpellant was concerned with quality in the courts. So am I. For me, it is a matter of materially correct decisions by independent and impartial courts in accordance with sound and efficient processes. The government is committed to offering a good and equivalent court offer throughout the country, so that similar cases are treated equally. In my view, the quality and legal certainty of citizens is the most important consideration. It's not a simple exercise to measure quality in the courts. However, the Commission has made an attempt to involve two researchers from the Institute of Economics at the University of Oslo to analyse court decisions appealed and converted into law enforcement. The researchers examined about 40,000 judgments in co-judicial cases with a penalty framework of less than six years in the period 2005 to 2017. They found large differences in the appeal frequency between judges, from 5 to 45 pst. Surveys also show that there are differences in the ability of judges to judge unconditionally. Judges in larger district courts judge equally. The representative claims that the investigation has not taken into account actual quality objectives, for example: the number of decisions made in another instance. I believe the Commission has done that, and it is attached as a digital attachment to the investigation. Quality in the courts is also about efficiency. Both the Commission’s and the National Audit Office’s report indicate that today’s court structure results in structural inefficiency. The National Audit Board found that in 2018 the District Courts could process 8.1 pst. several cases, and that the smaller district courts have the highest efficiency potential. The Commission’s analyses also indicate that productivity growth can be achieved by increasing the number of cases per employee. There has been a debate on the composition. So I mean, we've had a good composition. The Commission shall have inter alia: a member who is the head of the right to change the land of Sunnfjord and the External Sogn Right to Change the Land and the Inner Sogn Right to Change the Land, which are small courts. The Commission has also had a member who is the janitor of Sunnmøre District Court. She was appointed in the autumn of 2018 just because it was desirable with another member from one of the small or medium-sized district courts. Another member of the Commission, who is also the head of the Finnish Foreign Court, is the second smallest Lawyer's Court of Law, Hålogaland Lawyer's Court of Law. There will always be criticism of how a sample is composed, and it is good to have a critical searchlight on this in terms of both competence, belonging and stability, but I do not think it is right to say that there has been a lack of representation from smaller courts. I also think it is worth noting that the Commission has had an outbound business. They've met a lot of actors, they've been making recordings all the time, they've had their own website, and actors who haven't had enough room in the sample have been able to make recordings. My impression is that the Commission has delivered a solid piece of work that I believe gives cause for reflection. Then, of course, there may be other and new issues in the hearing, and it will be an important part of the government's work against the Storting as a decision maker. We're not there yet, it's a pretty long way to go, but I hope we'll have a good, constructive and knowledge-based debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1229	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. I record that the same problem continues, namely that the story being told is that the small rights of things work badly – you have to centralize to solve the problem without looking to other things. When you listen to the chairperson of the Court Commission, the chairperson of the administration of the Court of Justice or the state councils of the government parties, all of whom have been active in this debate for a while – so far with the Progress Party – you are told a completely different story than the one you hear if you talk to those affected by the proposal for closure. For the courts in Norway there are not so many, but they really work very well. You talk like there's an a and b team of judges here to the country. If you are going to be a judge in a Norwegian district court or land change court, the same requirements apply to competence and age no matter where you become a judge. It's not like a judge in a small court-martial is worse than a judge in a large court-martial. There's talk of having the possibility of moderate specialization. That's interesting. We have long followed a generalist principle for judges in Norwegian law, and there has been a broad consensus that this should apply. So now it's clear that we're going to have some moderate specialization possibilities, but we're not really making a decision to want this development. It's the court commission that's started talking about it, and then it's been allowed to become an established truth. The Council of State also referred to the National Audit Office’s report and considered that it supports the Commission, and that would be the case both the Court Commission itself and the chairperson of the Court’s administration immediately came to the Riksaudition report – that is, it tells the same story that smaller courts are less effective. But if you actually look at what's in the National Audit Office's report, and what's in the Court's report, that's not true – or at least there's no connection. If you look at the 25 courts that the Riksrevision believes are the most effective – or have the least efficiency potential, 0-10 pst. efficiencies — the Court of Justice Commission proposes to close or merge 16 of these. Why around the world you have to put down 16 courts that have 0-10 pst. the potential for efficiency? If there had been a context there, the Commission's report would have more closely reflected the Riksaudition report. There are also some of the least effective courts — i.e. those with the most efficiency potential — that have been proposed to maintain. In Finland, it is proposed to maintain the most effective court and to put down the best of them. There is no systematic link in the two reports when you look them up against each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1244	The interpellant uses expressions such as ‘bad’, ‘a’ and ‘b’ layers, etc. It doesn't describe what I mean about Norwegian courts. We have very solid courts. We have high quality. We have a high degree of professionalism. I believe we have good legal certainty for our citizens. It's very good at Norwegian courts; they're probably among the best in the world. So, of course, the question is, shall we not do anything? Are there no challenges? That's what I mean. We have to talk about that, and we have to do that in a good way. Then we have to dry up to see that there are some dilemmas, there are some vulnerabilities and there are some challenges ahead. The easiest thing is, of course, not to do anything and hope that it goes well. But if we're going to have a court that's armed for the future, that's legal certainty for the future, then I think we need to dry up and discuss changes, even if it's terribly difficult for some.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1251	The contents of documents that come from public selections must take a critical look, especially when the proposals presented by a selection could imply dramatic changes in the structure of public services, in this case also in the presence of the legal state around the country. One-sided arguments may seem like a clever move to achieve change, but in a democracy, where cross-reference is to be given to each other, and where processes are to be more trusting, it is an obvious advantage for public selection powers to show the ability to discuss different aspects of the issues and to make visible just the cross-estimated considerations. That's where the court commission has failed, and I mean the interpellant, Emilie Enger Mehl, makes an important effort to make this visible through this interpellation. Because it is actually necessary to find out what the Commission has written, to see what kind of grips are expressed in the report. Judges also react to speculations about the types of personality that are drawn to large and small courts. The Commission report states on page 72 that ‘it is possible to imagine, but not necessarily likely, that there may be an excess of particularly productive persons in larger courts’. One added to a small right of way, which is one of the most effective things in the country, has said that it is written by the Commission, can be perceived as a speculation, and thinks it is particularly unfortunate because it may be able to weaken the confidence of the judges in the small courts, and points out that the demands made to judges are no matter where they are going to work. The leader of the Commission has explained that they have done this with efficiency and types of personality in the report because they do not want to be criticised for not taking into account so-called unobserved heterogeneity, but as long as the considerations are unscientific and can be said to be only at the patching stage, as they are in the report, they might as well have expired, in my opinion. In his remarks to Document 8:156 S, the proposal from us in the Central Party to stop the centralization of the courts, which we debated earlier today, the Right Party and the Advance Party write that they suggest that the Labour Party and the Centre Party are inspired by the working methods of the Judges. The fact that the two parties in this way show respect for the judgment level and their ability to draw good conclusions is only good. I therefore wonder what the Right Party and the Advance Party think about the letter that has been added to all the smaller courts now proposed in the proposal of the Court Commission, has written to all the political parties, the Ministry of Justice and the Court Commission. Are the conclusions that all these judges move valuable? In that case, it is worth noting what they are writing here, after they have shown that there were no representatives from any of the small courts in the Commission: ‘The Commission thus contains a number of members who strongly want aggregation. On the other hand, the Commission did not receive a single member who could raise objections. The Court’s report therefore appears to be somewhat unsound. Among other things, it reproduces to a very limited extent positive aspects of the small rights of way/earth change. On several key points, the report is also almost a mere reflection of DA’s own views on aggregation. However, we understand that the work of the Court of Justice has been challenging. The Ministry has given clear signals in its mandate as to the result they wanted. The task of the Court of Justice has been to try to justify the desired result in the best possible way.’ These are many members of the ruling system behind it, the judgment level that the Right Party and the Progress Party think are able to draw good conclusions. I just want to remind you of that. If the Government Party and the Advance Party do not want to listen to the Center Party and continue to claim that what we are doing is unprofessional, they may at least cost to listen to all the judges who criticise the procedure and the results of the Commission report. This has a very important side to it, and that is the future of Norwegian courts. Will the government and the majority see the value of our lack of court structure, or will they also run hard on centralization – costing what it will cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1265	In the last articles of the Council of State, legal certainty was the main argument. Earlier today, I referred briefly to Hans Petter Graver, professor of law, in the evening post on 5 October 2019, and I think I have to quote from what Graver says in the article that bringing together the rights of property can go beyond legal certainty. He writes: ‘The need for more professionalised judges can make the courts more vulnerable to political pressure. It is not accidental that it is precisely the courts that the authorities in Hungary and Poland have turned down to thwart the courts. This is a perspective that is not very clear in the setting that has now been presented. Fewer courts give a clearer leadership role gathered on fewer hands. A Judge shall not oversee the judicial work of the Judges. Nevertheless, they can exercise great influence. They may affect the distribution of cases between judges and ensure that important cases do not fall within the hands of the ‘malicious’ judges. They control resources that are important to the well-being of the judges, such as holidays, leave, continuing training and other conditions. They cannot remove judges, but they can make life miserable for them.» I referred earlier to what Supreme Court Judge Jens Edvin Skoghöhe said about quality, and I feel the need to repeat the last. He said, «In my time as a judge in the Supreme Court, I do not remember that the large district courts were particularly positive. I think I'd rather say, rather the opposite! Many smaller courts refer to good judgment, and it was not “gold” all that came from Oslo district court!’ What one can wonder about is: Who is the government and the council's legal advisers, with authority in these matters? Why does one take so easily the objections that are widely known among those that are central to the Norwegian judiciary? The Council of State says that it is professional, that it is not politically governed by the government, but the supplementary mandate on child issues is clearly politically guided and clearly leading the conclusions. It reminds me of the government's statements about the near-police reform. One says things like those that have shoes on, realize that's not true. This is a democratic problem. The State Council of the Right is not concerned about what is being decided by decisions taken by the Administrative Board of the Court of Justice or by the senior management of the DA with director Urke at the head. Both the Board of Justice and the administration are acting in the spirit of the government. One is in no political vacuum. If one had done things that were contrary to the will of the government, one would no longer have had his job. That's how democracy works. What happens to the day-to-day centralisation and exhaustion of the small courts is only a logical consequence of a desired development. Right-wing justice spokesperson Frølich, who is not currently in the Chamber, has said so in the past – the sorenicism structure has expired. Obviously it can't be said, and it's followed up. Why not be open and honest and stand by the policy? The government is willing to use methods like: The small courts are economics; they are taken on by the lack of ICT equipment. It's unworthy. It's embarrassing. We know that the lawyers are moving to the state's largest cities after the sorenicists. Knowledge of Norwegian law is also centralised. Knowledge of local conditions is weakening, and the distance to find facts in matters is increasing. The distance to find the facts in the cases is increasing — the fact, which is so fundamental to the fair application of justice. I want to say that the good use of people and premises is, of course, the Central Party's task in this area as well, and then it's important that a part of the tasks. It is important to look at whether the municipalities that currently belong to large district courts can belong to smaller district courts, in order to get a smoother distribution of responsibility. It is also important to consider whether small District Courts can become less vulnerable by getting two judges, not as the minimum solution today, with a judge and a judge. A lot of things like this have to go into the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1290	Thank you for a good debate. I hope not the other thing it could have helped the government to look at both sides of the case when they will continue to work with the court structure and with the work of the Court of Justice. History has a lot to say about how a case appears. What glasses you wear has a lot to say. Which facts you choose to look for or choose to present have a lot to say. I mentioned some of it in my previous article on the comparison between the report of the Court of Auditors and the Court of Justice. I would like to draw up a few more examples from the National Audit Office's report. It is always said that the small rights of things are the least effective, that they are the worst, and that is the pervasive storytale and the impression created by the Commission and other strong voices in this debate. If you look at the trial period in the courts, you will find that of the courts that had the longest trial period in co-trial cases in 2017–2018, Bergen, who has 33 judges. You'll find Haugaland, who has 7 judges, and Lower Rome, who has 10 judges. All of them are quite large in the Norwegian context, and everyone has also been judged to be most effective by the National Audit Office. It is the same if one looks at the courts which in 2018 did not reach the time limit for proceedings in disputes. There were 18 courts that did not reach the deadline. 7 of them, according to the National Audit Office, are some of Norway’s most effective. It doesn't come out very clearly, and instead it's said that it's the least effective. These are the smallest with the highest efficiency potential. Another thing is that if you want to save money, it's not really very cost-effective to put down the small courts, because they have small budgets, so you don't get that much extra money in cash by putting down the smallest courts. Instead, people get a lot of extra costs because they get longer travel, and they get a lot more money to get the legal system used at all. Another thing that has been said in several rounds, not exactly in this debate today, is that most people are almost never involved in a trial or do not have to go to a court in the course of their lives. That may be true for some people, but too many people don't at all. Many people have to go to court when they are in a vulnerable situation. It can be a family situation, it can be child stuff or other things, and then it's important that you have a court that's nearby, that makes the burden of traveling there not too great, and that makes the cost not disproportionate and a burden beyond what it needs to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1305	This is my first day in Stortinget as Minister of Justice, and although the field is new, the debate is not. I think I'll dare say that the content of the debate may not be very surprising. It is such that I can confirm after this debate that the Central Party has not wanted this investigation. You don't trust the composition of the sample. You don't trust the content of the report, and you just want to scrap it after having a hearing with those you want to hear from professors and court judges. I'm working in a slightly different way, and so is the government. We now have a piece of work after two years of Commission work. I think we should take it seriously. I think we should figure out how to deal with this in the future. So we haven't drawn any conclusions. We haven't landed this, but we have to – and I think we owe the sample – do a thorough job. But the ones we primarily owe to take these issues seriously are our citizens, who we must also ensure for the future. That's our most important responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1314	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1330	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines with replies from government members will be given the opportunity to change their lines. Those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1337	We are now considering a proposal from the Workers' Party on an action plan against knife violence. For me as the case rapporteur, this has not been very demanding, I have to say – I have not sat up day and night to coordinate this work, because the whole committee largely agrees with the issues. So there's some disagreement about the solutions. The Labour Party document sets out a desire for the government to draw up an obligatory action plan against knife violence in broad cooperation with all actors who can contribute. In addition, there is a relatively long list of draft mandates and premises on the content of this action plan. So it's saying that the whole committee in its comments has a common understanding of this problem. I perceive that the problem is serious, and it is partly also increasing, although the documentation on it may be somewhat unclear. But it definitely also contributes to creating physical damage and uncertainty in the areas where this happens. Then the proposers propose a little more concretely that, in addition to the full action plan, prevention measures should be implemented. There is also a desire to ban knives that do not have a legitimate traditional use in Norway or are part of a Norwegian tradition, for example. machete, which has been a part of the public debate. Proposals also seek stricter criminal responses. The government parties also express in this matter concerns about the use of knives – very much of the same concerns, I would say – and claim that this is also a threat that must definitely be taken seriously. But they are probably leaning on the work they think the government is doing — perhaps they themselves may be allowed to elaborate — and they do not want to follow this up with a separate action plan. Then the proposers will probably come up and elaborate their proposals a little more. I will also address the SV's special approaches and suggestions for this in the next article. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1352	I've been in the neighborhoods and in my own community, where, after something that might have just been a fight between two young people, we ended up losing an amazingly great boy – a good football player and very much like youth. It was in a quarrel with someone who had grown up in the same rise. Then there's a knife present, and then it ends up with the worst that can -- both that we lose a boy and that another boy gets ruined his whole life with long-term punishment, and families that of course are hit, and a lot of fear and processing of this in the community. Such an event makes a very strong impression on me. I have experienced a number of other events of the same type, where there have been attempted killing or very serious injuries or also killing with a knife. I have talked to those who have been exposed to it, tried to get into it and also followed the trial procedures. This is particularly frightening because it can happen so suddenly, without anyone really thinking it like that. There was a father who asked me to follow a court case now before Christmas. His daughter had gone through the Birkelundy late one night with her friend and just passed one on a short team – and suddenly the knife was there. It was a killing attempt on her, which fortunately did not end with killing, but which was very serious. The horror this creates – as the knife creates – in our neighbourhoods and between people, I had hoped that the Greatness could live into it. Those working on this, with outreach work in the metropolitan areas of Oslo – the police and teachers of at least some of our schools – tell of a concern that more children down to the age of 12 to 13 are now walking with knives, and that the children do not understand how deadly it can be for themselves and others when the knife is there and there is a quarrel or a situation. There are videos on Snapchat, in social media, of the use of a knife that almost makes it common as a weapon, which makes it customary to walk around with it, which worries me very much. I think it's very important that the Storting understands this own fear that the knife creates, because we go and think, do those who hang on the center, the one on the inner pocket, have it in the school class? It is cheap and easy to obtain, and there is unfortunately a minimal chance of being controlled and taken to carry a knife in a public place, which, as is well known, has been banned since 1993 in Norway. For some of those who walk with knives, as I said, it's not for any particular purpose, it's because everyone else does it, and because it's 'in' in some environments. For others, it is to appear as fear-provoking and frightening and to be the most fearful in its area. At least for those who experience this, and on whom I have come close, it sets lasting tracks. Even if you haven't had a big injury, it's threatening a knife, or being up in a situation like this, which you can have trauma for the rest of your life. Especially children and young people can pull it very much with them. This is something like parents and all those working with children and young people, and outreach services — recreational clubs, schools, prevention police, etc. – experiences in close proximity. I describe this and put the emphasis on it now, because I want to try to bring forward the despair – I get despair when I don't think we have good enough answers to those I meet who have been exposed to this, to what we are doing here at Stortinget. There is not one measure that can solve this, there is not one proposal that can solve the problem of increasing use of knives for violence or threats. There is a need for broad efforts and mobilisation of many forces, whether parents, who have the primary responsibility for children walking around with knives or not, or schools, teachers, leisure clubs, prevention police, outreach teams – everyone involved, including those who run shops, dealers, who have knife shows. I had hoped that the Stortinget would see the need – when no one has one proposal, no one has an alternative, we do – and how big and serious this matter is, and that we could be supported by a broader mobilization, i.e. an action plan against threats and violence with knives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1373	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1378	Yes, I am promoting the proposals that the Labour Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1383	The representative Jan Bøhler has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1388	First of all, I would like to say to the representative Jan Bøhler that it makes a very strong impression to hear the stories he tells from the pulpit here in the Stortinget, and we share the concerns and concerns that a possible increase in the use of knives is in threats and violence. This is particularly linked to criminal gangs and organised crime, and it is a challenge that we in the Right too take very seriously. I am therefore pleased that the theme has a high priority in the government and not least in the police. I also agree with the Council of State, which in its reply to the case states that an action plan will not give cause higher priority or greater attention than it already has. The work being done, or all the work being done, shows that this is not a challenge that is being taken lightly, but on which it has already been fully prepared. There is already a ban on bearing knives that do not have legitimate purposes in public places. That Oslo police districts have taken autonomous action and intensified their efforts to address this challenge is good. It is desperationous Oslo who has the most obvious challenge, even though individual events have also occurred in other cities and police districts. I feel that the police are following developments closely and have important measures both inside and outside Oslo, because we can see that this problem can have a certain contagion effect. The evaluation of concrete legislative proposals such as the introduction of bans on current types of knives, other relevant regulatory changes, increasing financial concessions to police, conflict councils and child protection, and police national efforts against criminal networks and recriminalism are important measures. Increasing the focus on good growth, inclusion and overall good follow-up of children and young people in both school and leisure is not least important. To this end, there is a need for broad and good cooperation across various levels, including Jan Bøhler, with voluntary teams and organizations and parents. In Oslo, I have, among other things, See the development of such cooperation by the Oslo Municipality and the Oslo Police District through the SALTo preventive cooperation model. Right will not support the proposal for a representative for an action plan. The proposals put forward by the Labour Party in this matter cannot be seen to add something significant new and effective beyond what has already been done by the government. But I also want to say that this is a development that we all, in both the Right and the Definitely All Party on the Storing, and the Government, are following closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1407	I would like to thank you for this proposal. It is a worrying development that the proposers point to. The centre party supports this intention, and we also support several measures, but we do not believe it is appropriate to adopt an action plan, including imposing more frequent controls on knife possession or the prohibition of machete on the part of the police, to which the Storting has been subjected. We are afraid that an action plan will bind up a lot of resources and be effective for the police, who already have a lot to do and have a lot of things to do. I would like to refer to our remarks in the matter of machete, Innst. 204 S for 2018 – 2019. The Stortinget then adopted a ban on machete as a preventive measure. The centre party was against that ban, because we thought it was very difficult to define such a ban. It would be very unclear what kind of knives are hit, because many knives are very similar. Even though they're not machetes, they look like a machete. In general, all knives can do damage if they are in the wrong hands. Kitchen knives are fatal if used incorrectly, and it is difficult to ban themselves out of that problem. The Ministry of Justice just replied in its reply to the Committee on 14 October 2019 that ‘machete’ is too unclear to be used as a delimitation in a legal text, it would violate the Basic Law’s requirements for clarity. I am therefore a little uncertain about what will happen to that decision from the Stortinget, but at least what we have said in the past is that there are other things than prohibition that will be important. We support the customs service's ability to seize knives that bear the mark of being violent products, and on this, for example. may be considered to introduce a requirement for a permit or age limit for imports of certain types of knives, that is a good measure. I also hope that the government will consider imposing an import ban on persons who have repeated breaches of the weapons regulations. We also support a ban on the marketing of knives as self-defence products. I also believe that this is a cost-effective and important measure. A reintroduction of body damage due to knife and knife threats in the STRASAK report will also provide us with a better overview of the extent of knife violence and thus also a better starting point for control.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1418	Let me start by saying that I share the commitment of the proposers to solve the challenges we face with knife violence. And as mentioned in my predecessor's letter to the Stortinget of 14 October 2019, the prevention, investigation and prosecution of cases of violence and threats are already a priority task for the police, as is also evident in the Riksadvokat's 2019 letter of objective and priority. It is the police districts and municipalities that know best how resources should be prioritised, based on the local challenges and needs they have. An example of this is the prosecutorial directive of the Oslo Police Commissioner on intensified efforts to combat cutting in public places. Let me also underline that work is being done at department level with the challenges that the representatives are addressing, and I will say a little about this work in the following. It appears from the Granavolden platform that the government will impose a ban on machete. On 15 November, the Ministry of Justice and Defence sent a consultation proposal assessing changes to Section 9 of the Arms Regulation in order to prohibit the acquisition, possession or possession of machete/long knife with a blade length of 25 cm. The aim is to restrict access to machete and complement the current prohibition on the carrying of knives in public places and the prohibition of knives made for no legal purpose. It appears from the consultation note that the requirements of the Basic Law for clarity and precision in criminal provisions make it objectionable to use the demarcation criterion ‘machete’. The note assesses other demarcation criteria, such as: length of leaves. The challenge, then, is that a ban will also affect large knives used for legitimate purposes such as outdoor and professional activities. The hearing note therefore underlines that the ministry is open to other proposals and the hearing bodies are also asked to assess the impact of a ban compared to alternative measures to ban it. The hearing period is set at 21 February of this year. There is a significant potential for combating knife violence in government action against criminal gangs. It is shown, among others: to strengthen the State budget for 2019 by 50 million. to increase efforts to combat juvenile and recriminal crime, and that is an allocation that has continued in 2020. It's in addition to the police action in the area operation in Oslo. In the letter of award to the Higher Public Prosecutor’s Office for 2020, it is assumed from the Ministry that the Riksadvokat continues to follow developments in police action and measures against recriminalism in the Oslo area. Representatives are calling for the reintroduction of the coding of stabbing with body damage and threats of knife in the criminal record. In my opinion, the police department has to assess for itself whether there is a need for a separate statistics on violence with a knife. I am not aware that there is such a need today. In line with the Granavolden Declaration, the government is working with several regulatory changes that will affect the work of criminal gangs. It is a criminal offence to be a member of or a recruit for a criminal gang and whether the rules of withdrawal are good enough. In addition, the Ministry also assesses a ban on residence. We are working on an action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency. The plan will be cross-sectoral and will include efforts in a number of areas. In view of the efforts already under way, I do not believe that there is now a need for a separate action plan against violence and threats involving knives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1441	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1447	I stunned a little over that the Council of State, although she is new in the chair, was not familiar with the need for statistics on how many cases we have of threats, violence, bodily damage and knife damage in Norway. There has been a theme in Stortinget since I started to raise it in 2017, after I found out that the statistics had gone. The last year it existed was 2014, and then there were three-four cases a day of either threats, bodily damage or attempted killing with a knife. The council says the department itself has to assess this, but if there's one thing I think we here at Stortinget must have a word with in the team about, that's what kind of information we're going to build our policy on. Then having this statistics is very important, I think. That's a trend we should be concerned about. If you follow the media picture, you see daily messages, but we don't know what the whole situation is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1454	It is possible that I formulated myself unluckily. What I have been informed is that the police do not feel a need for this statistics. We've been working on both simplifying and improving statistics, and when the department itself does not see the need, my conclusion was that we should not instruct about it. I understand that there may be other needs here at Stortinget, but I answered for the police case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1459	I just want to add to the previous issue that, in a media round about this in 2019, the Directorate of Police said that they would be able to change the coding, so that this emerged, but that there was no demand from the department. I think that ball is waiting for the council if she wants to take it. I'm guessing that no one here at Stortinget would have anything against getting this statistics. Another question to the State Council's intervention concerns what she said about machete, and that she was open to measures other than a ban being in response and in the consultation note. I'd like to ask the council if she's not aware that machete is a concept of her own. It is ‘popular’. It's a brand you get, which is marketed as machete for these youth groups, and which has a special design. It has a meaning, without it solving everything, to forbid it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1466	With regard to statistics, the police have their own registers and they have information about violence, how and about the object used in a crime. It's not like the coding and the statistics decide how to fight body damage done with a knife, just so it's said – and then I'll follow up what the representative has said. In the case of machete, I can very well admit that I also thought it was an incorporated and well-known concept, but in the work that has now been done in the attempt to legislate this, it has turned out that it is not completely unambiguous. We do not want to hit those who have a legitimate purpose – they may be cooks or others. But now we have an open hearing on this. We're open that we find this difficult, we're asking for input, and then we'll draw a conclusion when we get the results of the hearings.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1473	The previous Council of State launched last August 2019 that the government – several departments were involved – work on an action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency. I am aware that the Council of State has only been sitting in the chair for a few days, so I do not know how up-to-date she is with this work, but in this context I could imagine asking if, when the parties of government do not want a separate action plan on violence and threats with knives, the action plan on child and youth crime will incorporate measures against children and young people walking with knives, and include preventive measures in the overall plan. I believe this is an important phenomenon that creates fear and unrest. It makes it difficult to predict what a quarrel can lead to when the knife is present in an environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1480	The starting point, which I think we all have to be very careful to see all the time, is that it's illegal to carry a knife if you don't have a legitimate purpose in it. That is the starting point, and we have to enforce it and fight all the crimes committed with knives and other dangerous objects. So we're working on an action plan, and more departments are involved. I was previously involved on behalf of the Ministry of Local Affairs, before I changed my job last week, because it has co-responsibility for the regional initiatives in the big cities, which is one of many measures here. The reason why we do not see the need for an action plan against this one weapon is that we need to see this in a slightly wider context, but dangerous objects and weapons use etc. must of course be part of the work and will be followed up in that plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1487	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1494	I just want to say that SV is behind the Workers' Party's intention, and we're going to support the proposal. At the same time, I have some nuances and objections to the device of this which I want to tell the Stortinget. When we address such issues – at least when the statistical documentation is somewhat weak, and reference is made to media lookups – I would warn against generalising and helping to create the impression that Oslo has become a dangerous city, because it is not. It is actually our task – and this is for the representative Jan Bøhler – also to present Oslo as it is, namely a safe city for most people, at least when the evidence base for exactly this phenomenon is weak. That doesn't mean we're not going to do what the Workers' Party proposes, but at the same time we have to be a little careful in the way we present this. If we create the impression that Oslo is a dangerous city, with young people sticking each other down with knives, we put the ball right in the hands of the political forces that want to build a narrative about a dangerous city – the Progress Party definitely does – and it will make it easier for them to get through to tougher immigration control, stricter penalties for children and young people, and more weapons for the police. So we're going to be careful and restrained -- especially we from the left-hand side -- with this. I am also critical of some of the points made in the proposal that the police should be detailed, or that this should be better enforced against young people. I am a member of detailed police management in some areas, but it should be in those areas where we see that the police are not able to prioritise the most serious. And the area where the police are struggling most with their capacity is violence in close relationships and rape. I don't want to impose a more detailed task on the police, because then we take resources from something that I see as even more important. I also do not agree that we should have more controls, because it can be perceived by the youth out there to be offensive and harassing. Telling the police to control can be very wrong, I think, so we have made a proposal that if controls are to be introduced, the youth being controlled will get a receipt that they have been checked. Police shall also be required to log the check. Norway has been criticised for the fact that the police are engaged in ethnic profiling, and we do not want a control regime in this area to lead to further ethnic profiling of the youth in Oslo. With that, I'm submitting SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1507	The representative Petter Eide has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1512	I think it's striking how the Workers' Party and Jan Bøhler's proposals, it's about recriminalism, social control or honorary violence, always meet good words and statements of support from the position, but never seems to be really listening to. It is therefore too tame when the representative from the Right says that the steps are being taken to address this issue, and that it is almost a success, when it is obvious that it is not correct, as we are constantly receiving news reports, push notifications and stories that address the problem of knife violence. The Labour Party and Jan Bøhler want to make concrete proposals and put them into practice to solve this concrete problem in our society. Therefore, we would appreciate the repeated good words expressed by various government parties if the same parties supported the proposals they put forward – we should believe the good words here in the hall – have a great sense for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1519	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1537	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows with replies will be given after contributions by members of the government. Those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1544	First, I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to join in the congratulations of our new Minister of Justice and Defence. I look forward to good cooperation in the future. As the President referred to, the case concerns Documents 8:173 S for 2018–2019, a proposal from the Labour Party for action to combat onlineness. The proposers ask for a public selection to be set up to address the framework of the public debate on the Internet and in the social media, where a specific assessment of each border should be made for anonymous participation in public debate, and how a better answer can be given to those who facilitate public debate. The proposers of the selection should look at the legal developments in other countries and assess whether it has a transfer value to Norway. They have further developed 10 points to be included in the mandate of the selection. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter and commend the proposers for raising an important topic for debate here in the United Kingdom. We can all stand behind the turbulent proposers on the development of a form of expression and a culture of debate on the Internet and in social media that goes in the wrong direction in many ways. Freedom of expression is strong in our democracy. It's a basic right and a high value. To be able to express our opinion in public space, we've been thinking about giving for a long time. For a long time, the public debate was marked by a few social debates that made their views known from various speakers, newspapers, radio and television. Otherwise, the word change went largely around the kitchen table, at work or other relatively local meeting places. The digitisation and development of different digital platforms has opened up the societal debate and today includes much more than before. It's something we're essentially going to see as positive. Nevertheless, with this development, we are also allowed to participate in opinions and opinions that border on – or go beyond – what we, as a society, can and will accept. Hateful statements can be offensive, frightening, and demeaning for individuals or for groups in society. When the pressure gets too high, so that a good choice no longer to participate in the public debate, we lose valuable voices and perspectives. When hateful statements impel us to limit our experience of freedom of expression, it has been a challenge for democracy. In Norway, we have several current homes in both criminal law and equality and discrimination laws which prohibit hateful expressions and harassment. It is primarily § 185 of the Criminal Code that sets limits on what is considered to be criminal, but as the Council of State in its reply to this case is involved, several other paragraphs of the Criminal Code are also relevant. Penalties are fines or prisons for up to three years. In recent years, the police have been given new tools and developed good competences in this area. It is expressed by both the Department and the National Attorney that hateful statements should be a priority area for the police. Establishing a stronger professional environment, both in the police districts and at Kripos, focusing on the theme of police training, joint criminal action and the development of good law counsellors in the police districts, helped to strengthen the management of this growing problem. The Courts have also gradually developed good practice in this field. As much as police work and criminal frameworks, good prevention is important. I am pleased that the government has seen this on the agenda in several departments, because hateful expressions and netness are something that needs to be worked with and against along several lines. I am very pleased that the government in its digitalisation strategy for the base ball has focused on training in good and basic digital skills and digital judgment. At the same time, I think that we all have a collective responsibility to be good imagery, counterpowers and counterparts to the opinion culture we see spreading on the web. Through it we distance ourselves from hateful expressions, and we call about not only the one or those who are being postponed, but also about freedom of expression as a pillar of democracy. In the Right, we support the government's work in this area. We don't see it as appropriate to put down a selection of your own that will work in parallel with themes similar to those of the different departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1572	The Internet is not a thing – it is a place where we live our lives. Well over a year ago, the Workers' Party set in motion a work to carefully review the challenges we and our society are facing today in terms of the sheikhs and online – something that fell naturally, precisely because our fundamental values hold back on freedom and the ability of people to actively influence and participate in their own societies. There was no lack of feedback from our own trust leaders, politicians, professionals, organisations and individuals. A lot of people had experienced the problem with the hot air and the shenanigans online. Many now thought it was time for us, as a modern society, to address this problem by both strengthening and ensuring freedom of expression in our country. In view of this, the Labour Party has led the fight against networking among political parties, both in terms of our role as an organisation, and also by raising the debate and promoting proposals here in the Stortinget. So the background was that in our society there is an ongoing and growing problem with online hot and hot and hot, especially in comment fields and various social media. We are faced with a situation in which social debaters, politicians and ordinary people experience so much discomfort and so much of a threat that in some cases they choose not to make their position visible in the public debate. Hoarsely, women, ethnic minorities, people with a different religion or LHBTIQ people are affected. So from this point of view, the victims of the heat follow the traditional lines, while the mechanism is modern. It is of great importance that society takes care of and encourages an engaging, respectful and factual debate. It cannot be accepted that individual people are raised to silence, as this weakens the individual's and our common freedom of expression and in the long term can damage democracy. Attention needs to be paid to the differences between hateful expressions, threats, online and unlucky debate culture. The fact that something can be perceived as unpleasant may differ from serious, and this differentiation should be the basis for the attention and follow-up being started. Digital development also raises new issues of freedom of expression. In several countries, among others: The United Kingdom, France, Germany and Sweden, are now developing and exist laws regulating the responsibility of editors and organisers. Norway, like those countries, should review this issue and ensure that its legislation is adapted. Much can be done to combat opinions that violate the law we already have in Norway. It is essential that the police are provided with sufficient resources to strengthen their competence and systematics in this work. Of course, on the part of the Labour Party, we are pleased that the members of the Committee from the Right, the Progress Party and the Centre take note of the serious situation that is hot and hot online. Nevertheless, we are concerned that the same parties do not take on board the major changes that have occurred in terms of online opinions, but are content with their own government's handling of the theme. The letter of reply from the Department of this matter shows that very good work is being done on the subject. Nevertheless, we believe that it would be of great value to our society and our democracy if a broad public sample were set down to explore the framework for public debate online and in social media, where the borders for anonymous debate were discussed and evaluated. I take this up with me the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1591	The representative of Maria Aasen-Svensrud has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1596	When you read the setting of this matter, it might be a little bit difficult to see the big political contradictions between the parties. Everyone in this room -- there aren't so many of us left, but those who are here -- agrees that onlineness is something we don't like, but we don't quite know what to do with it. We also believe that social media has given us a new dimension by means of communication. It has been a democratization of political space. It's expanded the scenes of political commitment -- and so it's important to us that we don't restrict those arenas. At the same time, we have seen, as many have now pointed out, a flood and an increasing amount of what we perceive as netness through social media and comment fields. This, of course, is very demanding and challenging. We also have a fundamental debate. We need to protect the right of opinion. We also need to expand the scenes and arenas for democratic opinions. At the same time, we will create regulations and frameworks that will ensure that this is within the limits of the law. Therefore, the Workers' Party and SV want a public body to look at those boundaries. Where does the boundary between what is to be lawful and what is to be defined as illegal? And how can it be followed up in a proper way? We're all exposed to this. I am absolutely sure that those who are left in the hall will also experience part of this. Even on the Internet I am constantly being called “sick”, “crazy” and “tufs”, and I am told that I have nothing to do at all on the Stortinget. It keeps writing people away to me if I talk about something in the media. These are definitely hateful statements, but are they illegal? I do not know that, nor is it certain that the new Minister of Justice, who is also a lawyer, can say if they are illegal. But they're definitely hateful. So we also cannot establish that all hateful statements in their intention are necessarily illegal. Just clarifying these limits will be important to us. Amnesty did a survey last year among women politicians. It's not me, as a male politician who has the worst, I'm probably pretty good at it. Women and women politicians are the worst. The survey conducted among these found that two out of three female politicians are regularly exposed to this — kind of false claims, sexistic messages, etc. There is definitely a challenge to discrimination here. What also appeared in that study, and which is more serious, is that eight out of ten of those exposed to this say that it makes them more careful in their political work, they get concentration difficulties from it, and they lose confidence. So we have a challenge here that's interesting: we're creating a society where we want to protect the right to express ourselves. We believe it is a democratic right. There is a conflict between the fact that the same democratic right to express itself can be a restriction on the ability of others to express their views – and will therefore also limit democracy. There are demanding contradictions of principle that we have to deal with in a new way. Therefore, with the support of us, the proposers believe that there is a need to get competent people to look at and explore the boundaries between what is lawful and not, and that we are then introducing some regulations. It is definitely also important to look at this legal, so that it becomes clear to everyone what is legitimate statements, and what are illegal statements. So back to what I said at the beginning. It's probably hard to see the political contradictions between the parties in this. Everyone who's talking about this is saying that this is bad -- way along the same lines that I'm doing now. The difference between us is enough that the proposers and SV are somewhat more eager to do something. There is a greater commitment and pressure, while from the government side we experience a somewhat daunting and eye-catching approach to this – without that expectation and pressure to try to solve this societal challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1611	The center party, like everyone else in this room, thinks that these are important themes. The previous talk ended by discussing what is the difference between us politically. I think he's right that the political difference is not so big. I don't necessarily believe that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party are more eager than the rest of us, but in the interests of the Centre Party, we're not quite sure whether a new public sample is the right instrument at the moment. It's resource-intensive, and it's not always that investigations into different things lead to an improved situation. In addition, there are some points in the mandate of the public body they want to put down, which we cannot fully support, so we have chosen to stand outside that proposal. These include: that several of the points are about to instruct the police in what they should prioritise and what they should spend time on. It is a fact that the police already have a lot of things to prioritize between and need freedom to be able to dispose of resources as they think is appropriate. We have received feedback from the police that they have too many priorities — not all of the action plans they are bound by and all the measures they need to take, are looking up how much resources they have. Then there's another thing, and that's especially the proposal that's about whether the police should be given the opportunity to give an infringement fee or another administrative penalty for online access. That's what the Center Party believes there's reason to be skeptical about for several reasons. The government in its letter of reply has shown that this could lead to this type of crime not being taken seriously enough. You could say that, but another thing about it is that the assessment of whether an opinion is illegal or not is often very difficult. It's a nice line, it's a demanding legal balance. I think it is right that this is a basis for thorough treatment and a court-martial. If you start giving the police the authority to charge for such things, you could risk people who do not have the skills to do the difficult demarcations, actually have to do it – the police themselves are going to do it on the street. I think you have to be very careful about how to design such a type of law, and we have therefore promoted an alternative proposal to ask the government to make an assessment of exactly that, whether it will be useful and proportionate, and that you have to weigh different considerations, among other things. freedom of expression and the presumption of innocence in criminal proceedings. I'm taking up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1622	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1627	The government is also committed to facilitating a good public exchange of views with mutual respect for each other. An open and free debate on society is a fundamental value for a functioning democracy. Freedom of expression, as we have heard, also has its limitations, and therefore Norway has laws that prohibit hateful expressions or calls for violence, even if it involves an intervention in freedom of expression. The representative’s proposal emphasises in particular the responsibility of the editor and the organiser for issues relating to freedom of expression. It is also shown how other countries work. At this point, there is already a legislative process in Norway. The issue has been discussed in detail in the Ministry of Culture consultation note on new media responsibility laws. The consultation notes propose inter alia: to continue the editorial responsibility and to neutralise the platform. The proposal also points out that attention should be paid to the differences between hateful expressions, threats, networks and unlucky debate culture. I'm probably in doubt whether there's a need to reduce a sample that looks at what's currently in force, and that's because the boundary between illegal and legal statements can be derived from the preparatory work we have and a wealth of case law. Therefore, I do not believe there is a need for further follow-up to Decision 698 of 7 May 2018 extending the provisions of the Criminal Code on hateful statements to gender identity. On 4 July 2018, the Ministry of Justice and Defence sent a proposal to follow up the request decision. During the hearing, a wide range of hearing bodies have been involved which provide a good basis of knowledge for the follow-up to this Decision. This will be followed up by the Ministry of Justice and Defence in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture. Kripos has a 24-hour tip desk and receives requests for discriminatory and hateful statements that are passed on to local police districts for follow-up. In the Ministry’s management of the Police Directorate by means of a letter of assignment, the Ministry is clear on, and has been so for years, an objective of effective, high-quality criminal proceedings. For several years, the National Advocate has promoted hate crime as one of the types of action to be given priority in all the police districts of the country, in line with other serious crimes. The police directorate has also developed a police district counsellor so that criminal aggravating factors can be taken into account as required by law. At the same time, the Police Directorate will assess how a national competence environment in the field of hate crime can be built up to support police districts. The high school of police has its own training provision for the prevention and investigation of hate crime. The courts are also working to ensure that judges are not influenced by factors which are not relevant to the case, such as: religion and ethnicity. So they're working on raising awareness. With regard to the use of the conflict councils, this is based on recovery processes. It presupposes voluntary action by both parties, but it is fully possible today to also use conflict advice on network issues, if both parties so wish. The penalty for making hateful statements is fines or imprisonment for up to three years, according to Section 185 of the Criminal Code. In the event of negligent infringement, the upper penalty is imprisonment for up to one year. It is therefore serious crime that needs to be investigated and treated in a thorough and adequate manner by the police, the prosecution authority and the courts. Creating a simplified presentation in such cases could send bad signals that such actions are not being taken seriously. By letter of 29 May 2019, the National Advocate General has decided that Kripos should investigate, prosecute and execute criminal offences throughout the country against central government members of the political youth parties. The government is working in several areas. The Ministry of Knowledge is responsible for developing curricula in primary school to raise awareness. We also fund research on how children manage risks on the Internet, and we have established centres for extremism research: right-wing extremism, hate crime and political violence at the University of Oslo. We have also adopted a mandate for a new freedom of expression Commission, such as the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. jobs to look at measures to prevent the spread of hateful and other illegal statements. So we are not waiting – we see that this is serious and works on many different fronts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1661	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1667	In the work of the Workers' Party on the fight against online networking, we have met many people who experience the heat online so strongly that they choose to stop participating in the public debate. Other organisations, such as the representative Eide pointed out in his statement, such as KS and Amnesty, have had the same experience when they have also focused their attention on this problem. Does the Council of State think it is a problem that politicians and social debaters, yes, common people in the street, are being silenced?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1672	Yeah, I think that's a big problem. This is also something we're serious about. This is serious crime, and we must prevent and combat it. And during the election campaign last autumn, I invited all the parties, the youth parties and the mother parties, the KS and more to discuss action against this, and there was a lot of action. But I don't think you should underestimate the problem. It's not a smart fix. Here all the agencies have to contribute in their field and we have to do more things, and that is what I have tried to explain now in my response to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1677	No, it's probably not on this problem. That is also why the Labour Party has called for a public body to be set up, with relatively many points in a draft mandate, which we also have. One of the proposals goes along with the police, which in recent years have strengthened their efforts to secure legal certainty on the Internet and prevent crime online. The committee experienced this when we visited the police in Stavanger last, and got good examples of their work. Nevertheless, it seems that some comment fields and opinion areas online can unfold far beyond the legal framework, without the intervention of the police. Does the State Council believe that the police have sufficient means to enforce the law online?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1682	I don't think this is a job that's done, and I think the tools always have to evolve along with both the problem and various tools that are being used. So now the Directorate of Police is working on this, increasing the competence of the police. I think consciousness has become much bigger, but I always think we can work better. Then you can agree with the problem and disagree with the answer. Is an action plan or a new public sample the answer? We are now working in several areas, and I believe we should complete that work, and I do not believe that a sample is the answer – at least not right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1687	With regard to the possible development — perhaps a little later — of today’s legislation to secure the country’s citizens, I pointed out in my speech that digital developments are also raising new issues of freedom of expression, and that more countries, among others. The United Kingdom, France, Germany and Sweden, are developing laws or laws regulating the responsibility of editors and organisers. Does the Council of State believe that Norway, like these countries, should review this issue, i.e. with editorial and organiser responsibility, and ensure that its laws are adapted to our digital society?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1692	Now I explained in my reply that this is part of what the Ministry of Culture has been assessed in the context of the Media Liability Act, where it is proposed to make changes, among others. related to the editorial responsibility, and not least to neutralising the platform, which is of course absolutely necessary. Then it is that we have recently adopted a mandate for a freedom of expression Commission, and they will also be able to carry out a very good and hopefully thorough review of the position of freedom of expression in Norway and also look at measures that can counter hateful statements, and whether there is a need for other types of action here. So there's a job in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1699	It is good to hear that a job is done, and I hope that the representative does not experience it prematurely by repeating the same questions. But it is important for us from the Workers' Party to get thorough and good answers to this. It's a work we've been doing over time and spent a lot of resources in. So I just want to stress that this online hot and hot stuff is such a serious social problem that people are simply raised to silence. Thus, people in Norway are afraid to take part in the public debate in fear of meeting hot and hot. And now the Labour Party is promoting a proposal – rich but relatively modest in its form – about a sample that will take over all of these issues that we have discussed here today, and that I think we are concerned about all of them, and that I think several of the parties have contributed well, and one could like to promote more proposals into this mandate, for example, if that was something that was specifically addressed. Does not the Council of State think that this could be a good tool both for bringing together and raising the debate, and perhaps even for bringing in valuable proposals that the Storting could help to promise, and for securing people in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1706	The President will simply confirm that it is not perceived as premature that the representative is asking for a reply!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1711	I understand the motivation of the Workers' Party to propose this, and I understand that when you sit on the Stortinget, it is appropriate to ask, for example. on a selection. And I think we have it in common that, as politicians, we have met many individual ships, and I have met politicians who do not dare to say what they mean, even in the context of the elections, as I said. Of course, it's totally unacceptable that someone is being threatened with silence, that someone does not dare to participate in democratic debates, that someone does not dare to express themselves. It's totally unacceptable. But that's why it's so important that we now work in many areas – working with children, working to detect, prevent, enforce and persecute criminals who commit criminal acts, because that's what we're really talking about here. So I hope I've been informed that the government works in many different areas. It is not that we are now sitting quietly hoping that this will pass. On the contrary, we understand that this is a big problem, and this is working on it. And just getting more expertise in the police department, I think it's absolutely vital that we take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1718	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1725	It is good to hear through this debate that the government, like the Labour Party, is concerned about the problem. We appreciate that. So there have been some points in this debate that I would like to highlight, among other things. this with administrative penalties, i.e. to be able to impose an infringement fee on online opinions that violate the law. This has received a lot of attention and has been debated a lot in the last year, and I am pleased that it is also being brought forward here in the debate in Stortinget. The challenge we are facing from the Workers' Party is that the distance becomes so violent, because as you experience that you have been exposed to hot or hot online, you have a choice either not to do anything, or to take the case to the court and go through that whole process. That's why we believe that it would be both general preventive and also quite effective to find a solution that might be somewhere in the middle of the big investigation, the big case in the courts, and simply not doing anything. We have other examples in society where this has been useful, and maybe it could be considered a safety belt in the digital world. We are pleased with the recordings that have come to the matter, but of course we are sorry that there does not seem to be a majority for our proposal. We think it would be useful. Then I'll just give you a little explanation of vote on the proposal from the Central Party. It is good that the Centre Party addresses this issue, which we believe is important to be thoroughly informed, precisely this with administrative sanctions. Of course, we are not entirely satisfied with the vague wording of the proposal as it exists, but should that be the case, we would like to support it subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1739	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1758	In 2016, the government decided that 126 Länsmannskontoret would be closed throughout the country, and on 5 April 2018 the Stortinget adopted the following: ‘The government is asking for a real strengthening of the offices of local officials that remain after the implementation of the police reform.’ In the period from 2016 to 2018, 85 municipalities with the remaining Länsmannskontoret had a decline in police year-on-year work. One of the examples of this is the municipality of Lier, which is a large municipality in the central east, between Oslo and Drammen, with over 25,000 inhabitants. Lier kept his Länsmannskontoret, but the staff was reduced from 24 full-time jobs to two jobs eight hours a week. What was a fully-fledged and well-functioning police house, a very large police house with many employees, is reduced to an office with a door and an opening time between 1 p.m. 9 and 14 every Monday and Thursday. The decision of the Grand Duchy that the Government should provide for a real strengthening of the officers' offices which remain after the police reform was adopted following a proposal from the Central Party of the Innst. 143 S for 2017-2018 and remain in force. The decision was unanimous in Stortinget. Right-wing justice spokesperson to ANB on 6 October 2017 said that the proposal ‘closes open doors and appears as naturalities’ and so on: ‘The stronger candidacy offices will be the consequence of the reform’. The Right-wing and Progressive Party believed that the content of the proposals in the representative’s proposal ‘in many ways is self-evident and can be found in the 2015 close-up reform agreement’. In its comments on the proposal, the Right-wing and Progressive Party, which was the minority of the Judicial Committee, wrote: ‘...an important consideration behind the closure of 125 labour offices has just been to strengthen the remaining ones. This is something that comes naturally in practice when you gather and create an exploration environment in one place rather than letting police officers and women work alone or with one or two employees in a small place of employment with limited opening hours.’ In addition, they wrote: ‘These members consider, in this context, that most of the proposals made by the proposers for the real strengthening of the Länsmann Offices have already been taken into account both for budgetary appropriations, for the conciliation and for the positive impact of structural changes on the remaining offices.’ The reality three years later is that the reinforcement has not been done in any way for all the remaining Länsmann offices, as the Stortinge's decision says. As I said, there are 85 offices that remain after the reform that have fewer police years than they had before the reform. When the previous Minister of Justice, Jøran Kallmyr, got this challenge – that is, almost the same wording as in today’s interpellation – at the Grand Summit on December 12, 2019, his response was: "I think it's a little different perception of what it means to strengthen. In my head, it means to strengthen that you give a better service." Yes, it is possible that we have a slightly different perception of what is involved in strengthening. In fact, more and more reports show that police reform has led to police being removed from the population, local police being built down at the expense of policemen in the main seats and in key positions, central agencies being built up, and it is not without reason that the police reform has been nicknamed the remote police reform. There's a reason to ask yourself a question when a place like Lier, a huge municipality that actually has a loner's office, has not got a reinforcement in the near future. At least the Central Party believes that there should be a warning for the government and for people when 85 offices have fewer police officers than before the reform. There's something that's not right. For the previous explanation we have received from the Minister of Justice on the example of Lier, which is also found in other municipalities: you need to be quite creative to get a reduction from 24 employees to 2 employees to become a reinforcement. You should also be quite creative, I think, to be able to get it going from a full-fledged police house with a close and good service to a police house with a hatch office two days a week to be a reinforcement. It is also worth noting that the kind of police station or county office that the government has now created in Lier is exactly the kind of cannon office you have argued that you do not have the right to life, which you have argued that you have to leave because you could not have a cannon office with just one or two employees and only open a few times a week. So now Lier, who was a big police house, has become just such an office that the Right Party and the Advance Party have criticized. My question is, how is this compatible with Storting’s decision to strengthen all remaining Länsmann’s offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1798	The representative, Mr. Enger Mehl, has asked questions about the strengthening of lumni offices and refers to a request decision that was taken in Stortinget on 5 April 2018. The representative points out that 85 municipalities with the rest of the county office have suffered a decline in police and reduced opening hours, and ask how this can be compatible with the decision on the size. My predecessors in the Ministry of Justice and Defence have also answered several written questions on the same topic. In the draft budget for the Ministry of Justice and Defence for the year, the Government communicated that the request decision has been followed up. Then I register that a majority of the Judicial Committee believes that this is not the case. I feel that we have a common goal of having a good local police force. The most important thing is that we have a population that feels safe, and fortunately it does the most. The 2019 survey of the police, which was recently presented — in fact yesterday — shows that a total of 94 pst. by the residents feel safe. There is an increase of 2 percentage points from 2018. But then we have different perceptions of how we get a good local police force. The government is also committed to strengthening local police and police services. The population shall have the same services as possible, irrespective of their place of residence. That is one of the key points of the police reform. So, of course, the question is, what is a good local police force? The representative, Enger Mehl, equates the number of employees in the lumbar spine with the number of good police services. The question is what does a real strengthening of the local police actually mean, and that's almost what we have to look at. When the government in the budget proposal explains that the decision has been followed up, it is because we believe that police services, including local authorities, have been strengthened. For the new organisation of the police, new joint functions, new working methods and a significant increase in the competence of nearly all patrol and investigation staff, better quality is achieved, including at local level. It also provides the basis for further strengthening services in the coming years. In addition, basic care in the districts has increased by about 1,450 new police posts since 2013. During the same period, police districts’ budgets have actually increased by about 1.9 billion. kr. So while Enger Mehl wants to strengthen the lumbarist offices, the government is committed to strengthening the services. A reinforced near-police is about a lot more than how many employees there are in the individual county office. Let me give you some examples. With the new, larger operating centres, readiness in the districts has been significantly strengthened. The operating centre controls the patrols, the patrols are based on intelligence information and where the needs are at all times. The patrols are currently serving as mobile offices, because the police are currently equipped and competent to initiate on-the-spot investigations. It provides better services to those exposed to an event, including: because they do not meet up at the Länsmannkontoret for questioning or giving an explanation. At the same time, response time requirements are in place to ensure that the police get to the scene quickly when there is a real need for it. Specialised functional holdings with a high level of competence resolve cases for the whole district. This means that citizens in small places that previously had limited resources receive better services today than before the reform. Extensive and complex infringement investigations can serve as an example. The Advocate General has previously stated that the quality of the investigation has improved. It increases legal certainty. So even though the quality of services is the most important thing, we have all the demands to use the community's resources in the most efficient way possible. In our opinion, a general strengthening of the remaining Länsmann offices in the form of several employees will not necessarily be good knowledge-based resource utilisation. I am concerned that there are local needs analyses, local knowledge bases, which will provide the basis for the allocation of resources and possible staffing of posts. The Chief of Police must have room for action to control the resources where the need is greatest at all times. It is not, however, that the government leaves the political, general decisions to the police chief. Over time, my predecessors have been very clear to the Police Directorate that police districts should be given priority before the special agencies and the POD, even when new police year works are to be distributed. As part of the follow-up to diffi’s evaluations of police reform, the Department will also give the Police Director a signal that she will assess the allocation of resources between the special agencies and the police districts, and between the special agencies and the Police Directorate. I also expect the police management to use the action space to redeploy resources internally, so that competence and capacity are used for services that benefit citizens through local presence. It is to give clear political leadership that priority should be given to local availability and presence. Within the framework of these leaderships, there can be no doubt that it is the police chief who is best placed to assess how resources should be made available when allocated to the police districts, and they must give priority to them. Police cannot be everywhere, always: priorities must be made on the basis of a sound and comprehensive basis of knowledge. Good intelligence products that analyse the crime and risk picture in districts provide the best basis for making good decisions. Resources must be put in places and times where the need is greatest. Neither is the availability and presence of a loner’s office or a patrol. How the police should be accessible in other ways, i.e.: on digital surfaces and by telephone, must also be part of the assessment. There's still a lot to pick up here. The police are very busy, among other things. network patrol and social media communication. It's e.g. so that young people want to communicate with the police in ways other than those of us who are a little older, want. Some important choices were made regarding the reorganisation of the police in connection with the agreement on new police reform, and because we did not want the new organisation to lead to more bureaucracy and to act cost-effectively, it was decided that the police should be organised at two levels: the chief of police with staff functions and the geographical and functional holdings. This means that all the places of employment belonging to the same geographical holding are part of one watchful cooperation. The employees have a meeting place at the offices, but they are not employed at the individual offices. So it doesn't make any sense to count the number at one cannon office. In the distribution of the 225 posts, a minimum of 90 pst was required. the maximum driving time of the inhabitants of each district should be 45 minutes to the nearest place of service. It's met with good margin. Furthermore, it was requested that the services should have flexible opening hours which allow services to be provided outside office hours at least one day a week. It's solid. Opening hours shall also be predictable and known so that those who actually need to meet physically can plan for this. At the same time, it would be a poor use of resources to have police officers sitting in the county office waiting for someone to come in. That is not the same need for today as it was in the past. Finally, I would like to stress that the government is committed to making the measures of the police reform work. We need to evaluate both the effects of the reform and the service structure in 2022. It follows from the agreement on the reform. Until then, we will continue to give leadership to prioritize local presence and accessibility, and follow it up in the dialogue with the police director.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1834	I record that we have very different input into these questions, but my interpellation was actually quite concrete this time. I refer you to a specific Länsmannskontoret where it has not become a reinforcement in particular. At least I can't see that a reduction of 22 positions is a reinforcement. Governments showed a great deal of support for the police in other ways. You've got more patrols out there. The Council of State said that each patrol is like a separate office. There have been joint criminal proceedings, investigation commitments – many things that the government always refers to. But the Storting had never decided that every canal office should be strengthened, unless the majority of the Stortinget felt it was important to strengthen the canal offices. It is such that we believe that strengthening the LEN's offices will provide a better police service. And then you can use Lier as an example because it's the starting point for the interpellation. If you have people living in Lier and working there, who are the police in Lier, they know the local conditions in a different way than they do if they live and work in the Drama and have to commute from there. They have a connection to the municipality. In a municipality like Lier, where you already have over 25 000 inhabitants – there is a growing municipality – it's not like those who work in a lumbar carpentry office sit and wash their thumbs and wait for someone to come in, as the Council of State did. Those who have been removed from that office are people who work with research, who work with prevention, who were policemen in their community. The feedback from the citizens is that the police are more remote. The police are now starting from Drammen and not from Lier Municipality. It is not in all municipalities that you have a center in the municipality, and then you have a villager outside. Now it is often the case that the police service provided is best located in the centre of the municipality, while in the countryside, for example. In Sylling, the police are more absent. You can see that again in the municipality after the municipality. The neodense is another example. It was revealed in an internal police report of September 2019 that the inhabitants of the Nesodden cannot expect to receive assistance within the response time requirement more often than rarely or never. It's a municipality with over 20,000 inhabitants. It is quite remarkable that it is still believed that the Storting decision to strengthen the remaining Länsmann offices has been followed up when we see what has happened. Unless it is believed that each police car qualifies as a janitor’s office, that decision has not been followed up for all the remaining janitor’s offices. That the Council of State can't admit that it also applies to Lier, I think it's a very bad thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1847	I'll give the interpellant right in one thing, and that's that we look completely different at this reality. Where the Center Party is concerned about going back to the structure we had 10 and 15 years ago, I see a completely different crime scene. I see a competence challenge that has been completely changed. I see that traditional crime has dropped by 36 pst, while online abuse against children has increased by 160 pst. I think we're going to have a police officer for the future, and rather than counting employees in one county office, the question is, what is the situation in that district? Is crime being enforced and prevented? Is crime discovered, and is it followed up? Do you do your job, and do you do it better now than before? Someone will turn the clock back. I think we have to stand in this. We must be rusted for the future we see coming. There are probably parts of this reform that could have been handled in another way, but in the big picture, I think this is right. Then we're going to do an evaluation -- we're going to learn from what we've done. But that evaluation will come in 2022. That means it's too early to put away what's very good with the police reform, but we're going to make sure we can do parts of it better. But I don't think the answer is to count employees in a county office, we just have to review the crime and the methods and develop the police in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1854	Through the agreement reached between the then government parties, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, and the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, the majority decided to strengthen the remaining Länsmann offices. Now we've seen this over and over again that it doesn't happen. And the Council of State today is quite clear that it is because it is not important. Then I wonder if the Council of State believes that decisions taken in the Storting are not important. The offer has been seriously restricted, which goes beyond the access of citizens to police services and weakens people’s legal security in the countryside. Last week in Nore and Uvdal, we visited an office that was not strengthened. What I would like to say to our fresh Minister of Justice is that our concern about this weakening of the Länsmann offices is an expression of our concern at a slightly more general level – that the settlement that was concluded is not followed up. They've followed up the structural part, but they seem to have forgotten the content, that is, how we're going to get more police force all over the country, so that it creates security for the entire population. It is serious in itself that an agreement that one party does not follow, but the most serious thing is that the police are unable to fulfil their social mission. Of course, from the Labour Party, we now have a hope that the new Minister of Justice will enter into his new job with a desire to fulfill the good agreement that was made on the police, not only for us in opposition, but for the people and the country. So we've been excited about this looping message that's been notified for a long time now, a big message about the police reform. It has been repeatedly notified, and it has been said that it is right around the corner. It would be great if the Council of State could now assure the Government that the announcement will really come soon, so that we can now see a clear will from the government and the new Council of State to take over and point out a solution to the major challenges facing the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1865	I had hoped that once again it would become a new Minister of Justice in Norway, and this time also from a new party, it might signal a new direction of government policy towards the police, but unfortunately speaking points have been brought with it by the Progress Party in the Ministry of Justice and Defence and, at the same time, drew great faith that centralisation is the answer to everything in society, saying that it is unreasonable that a majority in the United Kingdom has decided. For what we are discussing today is whether the government intends to follow up on what a majority of the majority in the Grand Duchy has called for by decision, that is to say, that the remaining Länsmann offices after the police reform should be strengthened. The whole argument that started when you talked about a police reform was that you had to get a massive centralization of the LEN's office, which the Center Party was opposed to. But the argument for doing so was that you should be able to strengthen the janitor's offices that were left after the reform, so that you would no longer have offices that only had a few employees, and that were open only a few days a week and a few hours those days. But what has happened in many places in Norway? I can use an example from my own police district, from my own neighbourhood, where well-functioning lumbarians' offices have been clipped and emptied of content, to strong protests from local communities. There are clear warnings both from those who work in the police and from those for whom the police are to carry out a mission, namely the people, the inhabitants who live in the area. At Årnes in the municipality of Nes it was approx. 1200 who went on a torch to take care of the canteen office, which had a great deal of excitement in the village, and which delivered good results. They were overrun. A well-functioning loner's office, which was open five days a week, with many skilled employees who had good results, was replaced by an office that is now open only a few days a week, a few hours. The same thing is seen in Nittedal, where you also had a well-functioning cannon office with a lot of excitement in the village. We've seen wing clipping again, it's emptying for content, it's emptying for employees. The municipality believes that it has gone so far that it has not been willing to enter into an agreement with the police, because the underlying assumptions have not been followed up. The same has happened in Lørenskog, where one had a large Länsmannskontor, more like a police station, where it was mostly 50 employees, in a municipality close to Oslo and with many of the same challenges as one sees in some parts of Oslo. It has also been reduced to a handful of employees, two to three permanent employees who are there a few days a week. That is the reality. And then you try to give the impression that you've strengthened the remaining loner offices. No, of course, if you're going to strengthen the rest of the loner's offices, you have to give them more jobs, you have to have more people to do the job. This is not the reality of a number of candidatures in Norway today. And then you say the crime scene has changed. Yes, of course, the crime scene has changed, it is important to get to grips with what is happening online. However, it is also important to have good people working to target what is happening online, and to have police present throughout Norway, which can address the neck collar of those who need it – be present and secure security and preparedness for the population. In the past, half a year ago, internal reports in the police found that, for example, the population of the Nesodden can rarely or never expect the police to arrive within the response time requirement, something is fundamentally wrong. One uses the argument that now the police are on patrol. Some of the last thing that has happened in East police district, happened from June 1st last year, where the emergency instructions from the police in the past, that there should be at least four patrols present in Rome at any time, have been removed because the police officers believe that there is no resources to follow it up. So there is a need for a new direction to be taken by local police.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1880	The government has a clear decision on the size of the population to follow: the remaining lumbar carpentry office must be strengthened in real terms. It has been decided by the Storting. It is quite creative to say that it has been followed up when we see that 85 Länsmannskontoret, which remains after the reform, has had fewer employees. Many of them have reduced opening time; they are less accessible to the public. As a result, the police are getting rid of people, they are getting less research capacity in the areas they are talking about, and many of them are also losing authority over their police resources. The taped for people, reduced opening hours, less authority over the teams that are attending the Länsmannskontoret – yet the government believes that this is a strengthening. The government parties wrote in the comments when we considered the proposal that was adopted, that all the officers' offices should be strengthened, that it was, of course, that it was going to happen. I think it's quite obvious that it hasn't happened, that this is a weakening, when, for example. Lier goes from 24 full-time employees, a full-time labour office with investigative capacity, local management and preventive activities, which are present in its municipality, to be reduced to an office with opening hours of two days a week, with two employees. It's not a reinforcement, it's a weakening, it's a disassembly of that janitor's office, and we've seen that in many municipalities all over Norway. So I'm going to encourage the new Minister of Justice to go for an extra round and follow up the Storting decision. The government is, in fact, bound by a big decision. The Right Party and the Advance Party also took into account the comments that all Länsmann’s offices should be strengthened, and that must be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1889	I can assure and I can promise that with a great deal of humility and not least curiosity and an open starting point, I will go into all the challenges that the Ministry of Justice and Defence has, including this issue. But I have to say, because we have some numbers, we have some facts here, which you can agree or disagree with, that giving the impression that the police are now starving, that it has never been worse, is not right. The police are strengthened by 2,800 posts, the police are strengthened by 1.9 billion. kr. Yesterday we got numbers that showed that the confidence and security of most people has increased. That's very good news, and it's a very good starting point for doing the best possible job for our citizens. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1896	The debate on substance is closed. So 7 is over. So today's map is ready to debate. The store is now taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1919	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map. The called alternate for Oslo, Olivia Corso Salles, is now taking the seat. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1935	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 4-6, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 7, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals 8 and 9 from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party; proposal No 10, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and submit proposals on how to deal only with health services as a self-incorporated entity, and that such defaulted debt items must be exempted from the obligation to sell housing under compulsion.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1968	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to be investigated by the government and to make proposals to impose own funds in respect of unsecured debt granted under a simplified credit rating.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a firm ban on the sale of unsecured debt issued after a simplified credit rating.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e1990	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-6, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider setting up a high-speed track with a pay-as-you-go for small amounts, without going through the pay-as-you-go.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to come back to Stortinget with an investigation and a proposal for a reduced appeal period if too much has been deducted from income.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to prohibit so-called ‘pay-back’, a refund to the creditor in return for the assignment of the debt collection agency.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e2019	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to return to Stortinget with proposals to introduce a negotiator obligation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e2035	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to reduce the writing rate to actual costs.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government to determine whether a negotiator obligation should be imposed on unsecured debt cases granted after a simplified credit rating and whether the creditor should bear part of the collection fees and salaries.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government to investigate and propose how to deal with health care probabilities in debt collection requirements, including debt collection agencies, and the level of pay in such cases.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e2104	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e2123	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Emilie Enger Mehl on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to establish a principle of local volunteering for merger decisions or joint management of courts.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e2147	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the maintenance of the court structure of the day, with the exception of groupings anchored in a local consensus.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e2177	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e2189	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e2201	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Jan Bøhler on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 4-6, from Jan Bøhler on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 7, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to introduce a control regime in the context of an extended knife ban: 1. require the police to log all checks for this purpose. Statistics must be made publicly available and searchable so that others outside the police can also verify this. Such statistics should include at least age, nationality and, where possible, comments relating to control. 2. require the police to introduce a pilot project in which persons being checked in connection with an extended knife ban receive a certificate that they have been checked.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e2235	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-6, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up an obligatory action plan against knife violence in broad cooperation with all actors who can contribute.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better enforcement of the prohibition on the wearing of knives in public places, the use of criminal reactions, the extension of the prohibition list in the Arms Code, reduced availability of dangerous knives, a separate statistics on stabbing and knife threats, cooperation with schools and prevention services for children and young people with more’. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present the Action Plan against Tender Violence by the summer of 2020.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e2264	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how the customs services can better authorise the seizure of knives that bear the character of violent products, including whether the imposition of police or age restrictions on the introduction of certain types of knives may be required, and whether provision can be made to ensure that repeated breaches of the Arms Act lead to the refusal of imports of the persons concerned.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a ban on the marketing of knives as self-defence products.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests the reintroduction of body damage due to knife and knife threats in the STRASAK report.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e2300	The Labour Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e2319	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Emilie Enger Mehl, on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public body to examine the framework for the public debate on the Internet and on social media, which specifically assesses where borders are to be used for anonymous participation in public debate and how better responsibility can be given to the public debate organisers. The sample should look at legal developments in other countries and assess its transfer value to Norway. In addition to the abovementioned, the Committee shall have a mandate covering the following items: – Ensure the follow-up to Decision No 698 [[2017-2018]] – Evaluate measures to enhance the content and marketing of police reporting services for hateful online opinions and assess to what extent the tips should be followed by Kripos. – Develop a clear mandate to the police, police districts and prosecutors in order to give priority to the work against hateful expressions, and to review the resources and competences needed to prevent and stop hateful expressions also online. – Review the ability of the police to streamline the national registration of reports of hate crime and hateful opinions and to systematise the ongoing data collection on such crimes, and also ensure that the recommendations of the UN Committee on Human Rights are followed up in the final note of the Norway 7th Periodic Report. – Find measures that will enhance the competence of police, state lawyers and courts for cybercrime and cybercrime. – Evaluate the possibilities and what is required to establish an experimental mechanism in the conflict councils, where network victims shall have the opportunity to bring the hotter to mediation in the conflict council, and where the hotter shall be subject to the obligation to meet. – To facilitate the authorisation of the police to impose an infringement fee or other administrative penalty on the network. – Explain how people threatened by their opinions and opinions can be better protected. Editors and journalists shall have special protection. Consider how the police can investigate these issues and consider any need for regular contact persons for this group at the police station. – Review the training currently provided in the network and the use of social media in primary schools and assess the stage at which this should take place in view of the further development of curricula in this field. – Review research on the network, the scope, the role of technology and what seems to be effective to date, and make recommendations on further research in this area.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e2376	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortingen with an assessment of whether it would be appropriate and proportionate to empower the police to impose an infringement fee or other administrative penalties on the network. A balance must be made for different reasons, including — but not limited to — the right to freedom of expression and the presumption of innocence.’ The Workers' Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e2400	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e2412	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-28.ana.ud382e2450	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
