ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e28	The called alternate for Eastfold, Camilla Sørensen Eidsvold, is now taking the seat. The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e38	On behalf of the representatives of Solfrid Lerbreck, Audun Lysbakken, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, I have the honour of submitting a proposal to ensure that all employees get their holiday money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e43	The representative, Roy Steffensen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e48	On behalf of the representatives of Hanne Dyveke Søttar, Kari Kjöna's Kjos, Silje Hemdal and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the necessary changes to the rules on the police record for school and kindergarten employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e53	The representative of Terje Halleland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e58	Then, on behalf of the representatives of Gisle Meininger Saudland, Sylvi Listhaug, Jon Georg Dale and myself, I would like to make a proposal to stop the development of wind power under the old concession system, until the legal system has finally decided on complaints brought before the courts. In addition, I would like this proposal to be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on urgent procedure, point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e65	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e81	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Tina Bru, Odd Emil Ingebrichtsen and Guri Melby will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Cecilie Myrseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e90	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. Both I and the Minister of Fisheries are off the coast. We know how great opportunities there are, and we know – at least I know it – that the coast has been over time deprived by this government, of which the minister is now a part. There is now a rare uncertainty along the coast, which has been continuously since Per Sandberg was Minister of Fisheries. Now we've reached the five-year-old Minister of Fisheries. Fishing is one of our most traditional industries, but also one of our most important industries, which provides Norway with high incomes. It's an industry that's used to a lot of uncertainty: how much fish is there to fish? What's the weather like? What's the market like? And so on. What they should let go is the sheer sea and the uncertainty of government and big business. Two weeks ago, the Stortinget dealt with one of the most important issues for the Norwegian fishing industry in a long time: the quota notification. It is about who will get fishing, how and where — the framework for one of Norway’s most important industries. Together with large parts of the coast and the opposition, the Workers' Party had over time demanded that it wait until the Riksrevision had submitted its report on the quota system. It refused the government parties to do, despite the fact that the criticism from the Riksrevision was crass and we know that haste is cargo. During the examination, the government parties submitted a proposal that the consequences of the treatment in Stortinget had to be assessed after the treatment in Stortinget – in other words, the stomach space of the times on the finish line. It's referred to as absurd. Today no one knows what is happening, and there is a sore need for clarification. That's why I'm asking: What is it that now needs to be verified? The Minister has not been able to respond to this earlier – not to the media, not to the Stortinget. I hope now that I can use the time to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e103	This was a comprehensive question from the representative Myrseth. I would first like to say that the quota notification, as it has been submitted, has been thoroughly evaluated for many years, for example. based on a NOO, Eidesen selection setting. I want to join in what the representative says about the people of the coast being both actionable and handsome and seeing opportunities, which has been very useful in the time we are in now. I'll give them very much praise for that. This is also an area that has gone very well in the big picture, in the situation we're in. It's also an area that's going to mean a lot to the nation in the future, in terms of both jobs and value creation. There are very many opportunities for Norway in the field of fisheries and seafood in the future. As far as possible further investigation is concerned, we have a thorough evaluation in the department. In the light of the discussion here in the hall on the allowance message, we want to be 117 pst. Make sure we've got everything and all the details. The Office is now in full swing to see if there are proposals to return to the Grand Duchy to be dealt with in an appropriate manner. It is important to say that we take the report from the Riksrevision in the utmost seriousness. We have received a number of recommendations that we will of course follow up on. It has also been important from my point of view to point out that in the large picture we have succeeded very much in Norwegian fishing. We have managed to have a sustainable management of fish stocks, which means that we have fish to fish for next year. We have a profitable fishing industry, and that is the best starting point for creating more activity along the coast in the future, and not least for further processing in Norway of Norwegian fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e114	Some of us have been so unfortunate, maybe, to look at Paradise Hotel, and there you say 110 pst. Sure, but something could just be 100 pst. Sure, and I need the Minister to be 100 pst. be sure of what is actually to be investigated. I expect and demand that the minister also tell us, because this is actually not good enough. Now it's almost two weeks since we dealt with this message. The industry, the coast, doesn't know what's going on. The size doesn't know what's going on, and not what's going to happen. The minister doesn't know. Who in the world knows? I'm just asking. I hope the minister can now answer what it is. It's not good enough to say that we're going to figure that out. The Minister for Fisheries must know: what is to be investigated, and how will the Storting know about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e121	The majority of the population decided new things, in addition to what was presented in the quota notification, and it is natural that they have asked the government to take a closer look at it, and to the extent necessary, consistent and come back to the Storting in an appropriate way. Then I also want to say that now the majority in Stortinget has set a direction for Norwegian fisheries policy. The industry itself has called for predictability and a stable framework. If you were to have an impact assessment even more, as the opposition wants, it would create uncertainty for a long time to come. The quota notification was sufficiently established. The new proposals that have been promoted will be dealt with in the Department and, where appropriate, we will return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate way. I think that is a pretty good answer to what the representative asks.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e128	It opens for follow-up questions – first Cecilie Myrseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e133	I totally disagree. I do not think there was any good answer at all. It wasn't an answer to what I'm asking: what is it you're going to get back to? When you make such a special proposal to the Stortinget, when you deal with a big case, that you have to determine the consequences of the proposal after treatment, that is very strange. When you do that, at least you have to know what this is. The Minister for Fisheries has made a statement, including: to the class struggle on Saturday, that there are many new elements that the majority have asked the minister and the government to investigate. But he could not say what elements this applies. I think those who work along the coast, on land and at sea deserve predictability. But that's the opposite that happens, so I'm wondering which elements it is that you're going to figure out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e138	With the quota notification, a necessary simplification has been achieved, and a more honest system has been introduced, including: what goes on the actual length versus the length of the house. I think that's an important clarification for many. Those holding allowances retain the allowances they hold only within a new system, such as: actual length versus base length. Then there are some things about overregulation, you have to look at. The majority of the population have, among other things: to say that they want us to take action in relation to it if there are adverse consequences. It is about wanting both to set a direction for the fisheries policy and to clarify a number of important things. Among other things, declared that no State quota treatment is being applied, as requested by the industry. Now one direction has been set, and then it's about doing for us in the department to figure out the details. Some of the measures proposed should not enter into force until perhaps by 2028 – this with a fall in structural quotas, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e145	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e150	I think that the Council of State may be debatable a little bit of the turmoil that is now actually there. When an organisation by organisation and economic operator calls for answers and is said to be insecure and refers to this – among other things. Pelagic Association yesterday – as the belly pad of the times, there might be something in it. Then it's not good enough to say that that's pretty good. No, it's not quite good, it's pretty bad political craftsmanship, not least from the government parties in Stortinget, and it's up to the Council of State to live with it. But I wonder about one thing, for a few days before we dealt with the matter, the Riksrevision came with quite a crass criticism, where one among other things. showed that ownership is concentrated on fewer hands. It was shown that many coastal communities are weakened, and one of the most serious, perhaps, is that the policy objectives have not been achieved due to poor policy impact assessment, including by the Department. Can the Council of States now guarantee that the future issues will be properly resolved?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e158	I want to say that the representative Myrseth really contributes to talking down an industry and putting a very negative focus on some things that are not perfect in the fisheries. Neither is everything perfect in fishing, but there is a lot going well. And taking a 25-year perspective on that, it's an industry that 25 years ago was subsidized by the big society, which is now profitable, and which will contribute to the big society next year. It is a fantastic starting point for further development, new jobs and new activity along the coast. We couldn't have had a better situation. And so – yes, there are some ambiguities, everything is not perfect, and some coastal communities have not come out as well as others. But it's also that there are some coastal communities that have come out much better. And everyone wants to get more processing of Norwegian fish in Norway, and so does the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e165	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e170	I don't want to say in any way that I agree to talk down on the fine industry that we have, but I agree to listen to the fine and good industry that we have, when they come with very clear feedback. I also recommend that the Minister for Fisheries do that, and answer the questions that the industry is actually asking. Then it's not just a matter of saying that things are pretty good, that things aren't so bad. The National Audit Office's report was pretty bad, because it shows that things over time haven't worked well enough. My last question to the Council of State is: Should the matter have been sent back to the government for a proper investigation before Stortinget got an allowance message 2.0?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e177	The representative asks a question to which she knows the answer, and which was answered during the bulk treatment. The quota notification is thoroughly consistent. There are new proposals that have to be looked at in greater detail during the debate. I just want to remind the representative that, for example, Norway’s Fiskarlag has said that they wanted the quota notification to be processed because they did not want any more uncertainty in the future. If there is not a significant and heavy voice in the Norwegian fishing industry, I do not know. Then I have also registered that there are people who believe the opposite, among other things. The representative Myrseth, but that's it. The majority of the population have made a decision, and we take the Riksrevision report very seriously. We will follow up on all points with recommendations from the National Audit Office, but it is also important to point out that there is a lot of good things going on in the Norwegian fishing industry, and that is a very good starting point for getting more activity along the coast. And then it's about fighting for resources, fighting for interest. It has been going on for decades and will probably continue as well. It's an honest thing to fight for their interests and want more allowances for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e184	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e189	One of the things that was mentioned in the quota statement was a new fish fee. The fee shall be 100 million. kr annually and imported from 2021. It's a so-called fiscal charge, i.e. a tax that has no other purpose than to get money into the treasury. So the fact that it's a fiscal fee has nothing to do with the fact that it's a fee on fish. Thus, the right and the step-by-step parties have a fixed fee on mackerel, a fee on lyres, herring, sieving and screaming. The centre party doesn't think it's a good idea to introduce new taxes for coastal industries, especially not in the situation you're facing with market uncertainty and the corona situation. My question is: why does the Council of State think it is wise to introduce a new state tax on fish?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e198	Yes, the bulk of the population has decided that the fishing industry should be charged 100 million. kr in a so-called fiscal charge. In total, including the fisheries research fee, it amounts to approx. 2 pst. of the first-hand turnover. It's not a huge fee. But an industry that goes well — just like in some other industries — is going to contribute to the big community by making use of the community's resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e203	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e208	In an interview with the Class Battle on Saturday, the Minister of Fisheries was challenged by a number of criticisms raised by the Riksaudition and to take the short version: The ownership is thus concentrated on fewer hands, vessels with quota are more owned by non-fishers, there is less variety in fleet, fewer and larger vessels, the link between vessel and quota becomes heavier, and foreign ownership increases. All of this is contrary to the principles and instructions given by Stortinget. In the interview, the Minister for Fisheries said that: «common resources are managed within the rules of the game specified by the Storing». But the gags that the Storting has given you are broken. The size has given clear rules of play that one of the administrations through the department has not followed up. How can the Council of State say that the fishing resources are managed within the playing areas of Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e224	The National Audit Office has not pointed out a single breach of Norwegian fisheries legislation by the fisheries management, i.e. what the Storting has adopted through the Participant Act and the Marine Resource Act. Fisheries management is governed by the law. That's what I mean by that statement. What the Riksrevision points out, otherwise, that there has been a development towards larger ships, is a consequence of a policy that has been firm for very, very many years, even in the 15-year period over which the survey has gone. This has led to a development where it has become fewer and larger vessels, it has some positive sides – and also some negative aspects for some. But there has been a desired development of a broad majority in the Biggest. Then, of course, I could have commented on some single points that the representative asks about foreign ownership. The National Auditor says that this is not essential, it is about. a couple of percent or something – if I don't remember wrong. There are EEA citizens who have lived in Norway and started fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e233	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e239	That's a little bit of a special answer. The law is very clear. Fishing resources shall be managed in such a way as to contribute to the employment and composition of coastal communities. The National Auditor says it didn't lead to it, it actually has our negative for the coastal communities. It has been a development in which it has our profitability, but too fewer and fewer, wages have moved from the wide coastal population to fewer and fewer actors. Several of them aren't on the ocean either, they're fishers with tie, which they're called along the coast. It's a little special that one says that one has not broken a law when the lead from the Storting is so clear on the administration, when the law is not too misinterpretable, and when the law is so clear and clear. In the same interview, the Council of State says that the policy is not contrary to the principle but challenges the principle. Can the Council of State, which has a publishing background, explain to me the difference that it ‘does not conflict’ and that it ‘challengs’ the principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e246	Yes, I'll try to answer the representative. What is pointed out in the report is that in some coastal communities there has been a less positive development, a negative development, but there are also some societies where there has been a positive development – that is, the same thing that happens elsewhere in society and in other industries. The fishing industry cannot bear sole responsibility for the overall development of all communities, so what is the point, and which is pointed out by the National Audit Office, is that it has succeeded in achieving profitability in the industry. The National Audit does not mention that you have succeeded in obtaining sustainability. The three key principles are sustainable stock management, industry profitability and activity and coastal employment. The latter has not been fully successful, but it is good in some communities, and it is also important in the big picture to point out that the fishing industry is really doing quite well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e251	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e256	Yes, for fewer and fewer, it is becoming increasingly better because one has ensured that the control of fish resources is on fewer and fewer hands, and then the wages for them are increasing. That's exactly what the Riksrevision criticism is, that this wasn't what the Storting wanted. So, here's a clear set of rules from the Storting, which even the government's own party has been involved in adopting, and one has not followed up on this in government. One has simply led a policy that is contrary to it. Given what the Council of State says here, that this is happening elsewhere in society, there is a centralisation, there is a development that has also come to fisheries – that is, it may be, but here, in fact, the fisheries policy has driven such a development, and that is what is the criticism of the Riksrevision. Then the question is, how in all the world can the Council of State say that the administration has our good, when it has challenged the principles and directions of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e261	The fisheries management has followed up the Norwegian law. There has not been any mention of a single infringement of Norwegian fishing legislation by the administration, and I think that is very positive, even though the representative Knag Fylkesnes in advance had hoped it would be a crime. So it's very important for me to say that what the Riksrevision points out about the development of some coastal communities is correct. But it is also important to say that it is also part of general social development and that there are some coastal communities where things have gone better. I believe that the things that have worked out, profitability and sustainable management are a great starting point for developing the industry further and getting more processing of Norwegian fish in Norway. It may also be appropriate to take into account that we should ensure market access and perhaps lower rates of duty for processed Norwegian seafood, which will further increase the export potential of the industry and increase the possibility of processing in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e268	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e273	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge and Integration. We in Norway spend enormous resources on integration, and we all have a common goal and a common desire to succeed in the integration work. But it's hard to say that we've done it. If we look around at those countries in Europe that have had high levels of immigration, they have also had similar major problems. Our neighbouring country has major problems with crime, exclusion, segregation and a wide range of negative aspects. We also have major problems in Norway. We see that some immigrant groups are strongly overrepresented in a number of negative statistics — low employment, high social assistance payments, and there are high levels of crime among some groups. This is something that is precious and that is not sustainable for the future. If we look at the country as a whole, immigrants stand for 56 pst. of all social assistance payments. If we look at Oslo, immigrants stand for over 70 pst. of all social assistance payments. That's how you can hold on and frame up a lot of negative sides that we unfortunately haven't succeeded in. My question to the Minister is: What does the Council of State think is the reason why so many immigrants, and perhaps especially immigrant youth, fall outside and become criminals and not part of Norwegian society, as we want?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e284	There is no doubt that it is challenging for a good part to be well integrated into Norwegian society. This is precisely why the commitment to integration is one of the main efforts of the government — that all people in Norway should have the same opportunities, that we all have the opportunity to succeed in our own lives, is crucial both for the individual and for our success as a society and a community. The integration strategy proposed by the government in 2018 contains a good number of measures that contribute to participation and to opportunities in school, education and working life, to everyday integration and to the right to live a free life. In addition, the government has introduced a new law on integration through training, education and work. There is no doubt that Norwegian knowledge, knowledge of Norwegian social life, good schooling and good education are the key to success, participation in a job. Indeed, a great many of the challenges that the representative of Engen-Helgheim raises for both social assistance and crime are largely linked to poverty. These are challenges for people with low incomes and children growing up in low income families. If we manage to solve those challenges and improve the relationship of immigrants and others with the world of work, very much has been done. Some of the most important steps in the new law on integration are to contribute to the formal education of several refugees, to the improvement of Norwegian skills, and to the qualification of the Norwegian labour market to a greater extent than at present. Everyone must live a free and independent life, both children, young people and adults have the right to make their own choices. It's a fundamental human right, and that's why we also have to contribute to the fulfilment of those rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e293	Thank you for your answer. This was, of course, an illustration of a lot of good measures that I think the whole Storting can stand behind, or at least a lot of good intentions. But what was my point about the question was that we haven't succeeded with these measures. None of the measures that are being put in place here are successful. We are very good in Norway to spend a lot of money on measures we don't know about working, or that we know quite well isn't working. Then my question is: could the minister imagine looking at some of the things that have actually worked out, such as. in Drammen, where, as the first municipality, we introduced an activity obligation for social welfare recipients and managed almost overnight to halve the number of young social welfare recipients by making demands? Will the Minister contribute to increased obligations and more concrete demands for people to contribute to the provision of benefits and services?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e300	First, I want to correct that description of reality. Saying that we have not succeeded in integrating into Norway, I believe is a completely wrong description. Most people actually get well integrated, most things actually get a job, most things qualify, and most people become active members of society. I think it's important to bring it with me. There is no doubt that having a more diverse society is a strength for Norwegian society. That's something we're going to fence about, which is positive. But of course, we shouldn't pretend to be challenges, nor should we pretend that everything we've done before has been perfect and very good, and that we've now kind of taken all the measures that are going to make absolutely everyone succeed much better than before. This is why the government has also launched a number of new measures, and much of it is based on evaluations of measures already taken. I think we have a very good combination by increasing the requirements and obligations – we have, among other things. now just proposed to raise the requirements for Norwegian skills in order to gain citizenship, while at the same time contributing to this by making higher demands on the Norwegian education actually given.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e309	It opens for follow-up questions – first Jon Engen-Helgheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e315	There are things we've heard for a very long time, which are accepted as explanations, that the vast majority of people succeed in Norwegian society. But if we look at the criteria for success: I want to say that when the immigrant population is as different as possible from the rest of the population, we have succeeded in integrating. If we look at labour participation from rural groups in Africa and Asia, it's actually not that most people are at work and can live on their own income. Most people are actually out of work and unable to live on their own income, and I don't mean that we can say that most people succeed in Norwegian society. I think we need to be a little more honest and keep up with a little more stringent requirements. I did not get an answer to the question of whether the minister is willing to make more demands for more services and benefits, as was done for social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e322	I answered the question from the representative, among others. by pointing out that we are making higher demands for citizenship, which is one important instrument. I'm very open to evaluating areas that can be claimed, but it also needs to be followed by strengthening services and improving the ability to meet those requirements. If we are to impose higher requirements on e.g. In fact, we have to make sure that Norwegian training works around the municipalities – that it is not random, that people with very different background skills do not get exactly the same offer, that we do not measure in the number of hours if you are able to achieve the goals you are going to achieve, but that we actually measure it in the skills achieved. I believe we have come a long way towards integration in Norway, but there is no doubt that we have a long way to go, and learning from good experience from municipalities that have taken action that has worked, I am very open to. I also believe that we have to do that. The constant evaluation of the measures we are implementing and the adjustment of the course is an important part of the government's efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e329	Jon Engen-Helgheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e334	Thanks for the answer. The Progress Party has proposed, inter alia: to introduce an integration barometer, that is, to measure how things work with integration over time, where we look at a wide range of measurement indicators, such as labour participation, social assistance payments, crime, child protection issues, education and a wide range of interesting things to see how things evolve over time. Very often we run with a lot of vision when we talk about immigration and integration. Some people think it's going very well, while others don't think it's going very well. The numbers are certainly nothing to boast of. Then is my last question to the Minister: Would the Minister approve of introducing an integration barometer that openly and honestly shows the figures on a wide range of these indicators to make it clear whether we are successful in integrating, or whether it is going in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e343	I'm a little bit unsure about what areas we don't have numbers for, and what we're missing, I'm going to have to take a closer look at that. As I see it, we have a lot of statistics that tell us a lot about how we succeed in integration, which is both about education and about completion in basic education. There we see, for example. that children of first-generation immigrants of very many nationalities succeed very well, and that, I believe, is a very important indicator of good integration. We have figures for employment, for social assistance and for a number of other factors. I think we have a relatively good knowledge of how integration goes into Norwegian society, and I don't see any immediate need for a new investment in it, but of course we're always open to gaining new knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e350	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e355	Someone might say it's paradoxical, but it's an irrevocable fact that the competence and the good peoples that keep Norwegian oil and gas industries going, maybe is our strongest map in the transition to a climate-friendly society. There is every cause for concern when the coronation depression in the economy and low oil prices threatens to put a wet blanket over the industry that in many ways constitutes the lifeblood of our business – yes, of the entire Norwegian community. In particular, there is reason to be concerned about enterprises and tens of thousands of jobs in the supplier industry – those that have until now built chassis for oil platforms to build foundations for marine wind turbines, marine platforms and coastal fleet renewal. At the same time, electrification of the socket is central to achieving Norway's climate obligations. It is a work that will have a major impact on maintaining a competitive and competent supplier industry throughout Norway. Important jobs across the country depend on these projects, and it is with the background of the experience we are going to develop tomorrow's solutions and build new industries in marine wind, aquaculture, capture and storage of CO 2 and green shipping. Three large and more small electrification projects are planned in the next few years towards 2022. It's electrification of Sleipner, Troll and Melkøya. Overall, they will result in a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of 8 pst. for the industry. The government's arrangements now provide security for execution only on Sleipner. The electrification of Troll will be postponed because the scheme only marginally improves the project economy. At Melkøya, it's going to be a loss. Both will therefore be exposed to the arrangements of the government. The loss will also be the possibility to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by more than 1 million tonnes of CO 2 per year. Does the Minister for Oil and Energy believe that such a postponement is appropriate at a time when the supply industry needs jobs and Norway is struggling with climate change objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e374	I want to start by saying that I share many of the concerns and considerations that the representative brings about the future for Norway's largest and most important industry. They're in an incredibly demanding time. They have been struck by a kind of perfect storm caused by both an oil war and a drastic fall in the demand for oil as a result of the global pandemic. I've been in close dialogue with the industry ever since this start. I've been trying to figure out how we can facilitate that we don't lose entirely decisive environments of competence and important businesses all over the coast and across the country in this incredibly extraordinary situation we're in. That's why I also thought it was quite natural and correct that we met this industry, as we have done with many other industries, to assist in a very demanding situation. That's why we made a proposal for targeted, temporary adjustments in the tax haven on the base, precisely to meet some of the requirements of the industry itself, primarily to improve liquidity, as they themselves said was one of the most crucial things in order to be able to move on with already planned projects. In this work I have also been concerned about the same thing that the representative is concerned about: how we should also secure the green projects on the base. It is very important that work is not delayed as a result of this particular situation. I believe that the proposal we have put forward provides good opportunities to continue those projects. Here I fully share my intention. Now there is a debate on this proposal. I also record that the industry believes that we have not met them completely, and that is correct. The proposal we're making is not exactly the same as theirs, but we've been busy having a finite solution just to preserve the normal tax system in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e383	The industry is very clear that two of these projects will not be implemented with the government's plans. But the supplier industry and the yard are already turning to a climate-friendly future. Marine agriculture, wind, research vessel and conversion to a greener ship's fleet are just a few junctures. On the way, we have to bring with us knowledge, technology, capital, and not least the peoples of the industry. Maybe the solutions aren't, and at least not the orders, in place before two, three, four or five years in time. Then it is critical that many shipyards will experience empty order books from the next summer. If we're going to make the transition, we're going to have to keep the welders, the engineers, the fitters and the plate workers going. We can't believe that we can permite people the next summer to then call them back in 2024 to build sea windmills. We need activity all the way. Enterprises and jobs must exist if they are to contribute to conversion. How will the Council of State ensure that the oil and gas industry can help to continue to create activity and change in the yard and supplier industries over the next few years, without the disappearance of precious businesses, precious time, skills and labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e390	Once again, I just have to start by saying that I share many of the considerations the representative has. I'm busy with the exact same thing. There has been a central point for me in the work we have now done in the government on how we should just avoid losing important environments of competence and ensure that we still have activity. The proposals for the tax package are one piece of it. It is a temporary arrangement with a fixed end date. The scheme applies to investments in some projects incurred up to 2024. I am also a little concerned that we have to remember what this industry is always asking for – at all the conferences I and the representative have been at together in the years when I was also at Stortinget. What are they always raising up as the most important thing? Yes, there is stability and predictability, not least in the tax ego. It is a system for which there is a broad anchoring in Stortinget, which we have been proud for many years, and which has served both us and the companies well. I am very concerned that we – although we now have to take some temporary measures – must be careful not to get into a situation where we are going with a completely different system very far ahead in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e401	There will be follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e407	The problem with the government and possibly with other parties in the Storting is that a combined industry does not think it is good enough. It is not just the oil companies – also the supplier industry, the trade unions and local communities are unisony: this is not good enough. A decision must be good enough to trigger the deployment of the supply industry over the next three years. Kværner Verdal has one year of assignment. If the Hod expansion, which is now exposed, does not come back on the rails, the order books will be empty in June 2021. This is one of the largest industrial workplaces in Trøndelag, with over 750 employees. They have a lot of subcontractors, many of them gathered in the Verdal Industrial Park, who employ 3,200 people. If Kværner Verdal doesn't make it, there won't be a family in Verdal who doesn't notice. An entire region will be hit. Does the government really dare to risk these jobs? Is there a risk that the Government and the Council are willing to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e414	I just don't want to risk these workplaces. That is also why we have proposed something that is actually quite historic, that is, a temporary change to a very important and large system for the country. And yes, it's a little more limited than what was the original proposal from the industry, but we politicians also have to make their own assessments. I believe that we are already well on the way to meeting a lot of what has been the core challenge, and that the industry also pointed to itself, before the proposal came, namely the liquidity issue. It has been very important. This also goes over several years. It may apply to investments incurred entirely in 2024. It's a significant horizon. We have to remember that these are projects that in a long-term picture are profitable. They don't require a very high oil price to be profitable. We also have to include that in what we're discussing here. So I think it's also important to think about other things that can help us get active in the supplier industry. For example, we have announced a green conversion package. There will also be things that will hit this industry and these important businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e423	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e428	In the last week, the Senterparti-leiter and I were in Rogaland and visited the shipyard and supplier industries – Rosenberg Verft in Stavanger and Aker Solutions in Eigersund. Aker Solutions is the largest workplace in Eigersund and in the region – an enterprise that is important for Dalane, for Rogaland and for Norway. The birthplace of Aker Solutions was ready: the package presented by the Minister of Oil and Energy will not secure the jobs in Eigersund. There is a need for tougher measures to keep up the activity and secure value creation and work in the yard industry. My question is really very simple: does the Council see that it should do more to save jobs in the shipbuilding industry, for example. by Aker Solutions in Eigersund?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e435	Now I've really answered this question for several rounds, but again: I share these concerns. I'm recording that the industry is not 100 pst. satisfied with everything in the package, that it does not go far enough, but now the package is in Stortingen, and it is up to Stortingen to deal with the proposal. Nor can I say that I have registered any alternative suggestions from the Centre Party. It would have been interesting to hear whether the Centre Party has some own assessments of how this proposal could be targeted, how it should be defined, and what its purpose is. The only thing I've registered from the Center Party so far is that an exact copy of what's suggested by the industry is what the Center Party will go for. It's okay, but we're also politicians who are going to do some internal assessments, so it would be interesting to hear if the Center Party has any suggestions on how this can be better targeted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e442	Sandra Borch - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e447	A number of rapporteurs from North Norway, NHO, LO, Regional Councils and Food Associations have launched a campaign to save the supply industry, among others. North Norway and, in particular, Lake Sandness. The changes proposed by the government in the petroleum tax allow industry to invest, but at the same time make many investments unprofitable. Several communities in the north are directly affected by the crisis that we are experiencing, and therefore, targeted and rapid action by the authorities is crucial. The most dramatic thing for North Norway is that Aker Solutions is now laying down in Lake Sandness, and I will challenge the Council of State: When the order books become empty, what concrete action will the Council of State take? Is she just going to sit and watch that knowledge and hundreds of jobs are now disappearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e454	No, I'm not going to just sit and watch that. I fully agree that this is a critical situation. I am also concerned about all the important jobs in our shipyards around the country. Therefore, as I have said many times before, I have also been quite clear that it was necessary to make some temporary adjustments in a tax system that should strictly be something we can do over time. We did this in the case of the previous oil price fall – then we were on the tax haven, because it is designed to work well in both bad and good times. I fully agree that this is such an extraordinary situation that here we have to do something in addition. So it's worth noting that the oil price today is almost $35. We now see clear signs that the market will stabilise in the long term during the year we are entering. There are better prospects than we had just a few weeks ago, also because of the global production cuts. That's also a picture we need to bring with us. I fully share the representative's concerns, but I also believe that with the proposal we are now considering here in Stortinget, we have come a long way to meet the needs of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e463	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e468	The government insists that her and the government's proposals are good enough, but what we challenge is that a whole industry doesn't think so. It's not just about the oil companies, it's about the trade unions, it's about the supplier industry, it's about the LO, and it's about the NHO -- none of them think it's good enough. So ask the council what the Center Party would do differently. We would have removed this half of the income that the government has deposited. It's just a trick – it has no real effect. And we would put in enough elements to make sure that Hod is not exposed, that NOAKA is not exposed, that the electrification of Troll and Melkøya is not exposed. For if a first measure is to be taken as a deferred tax — that is not tax-free, this is deferred tax — it must at least be sure that the measures are effective, that jobs do not go down in the meantime. I agree, in 2023/2024 there is going to be a lot under renewable projects, but Kvärner Verdal's order book is empty next summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e475	I fully agree with the representative Arnstad that this is by no means a tax relief – it is absolutely right that there is deferred tax. There are many people who are trying to say that you should not do this grip, precisely because you should not help an industry that has been hard tried right now, because you should rather let the conversion go its way. I do not agree with that. I very much agree with what the representative also says, that it's about bringing the important businesses and environments of competence forward, and then we have to do this. The explanation why we in our proposal reduce some of our income is simply that the income is initially a compensation for the fact that companies do not receive immediate expenditure on the investment cost. They now receive that in the proposal that the government has put forward. That's why we've also seen it natural to reduce the income. But I note that this is a debate. There's going to be a debate in Stortinget. We're a minority government. Now, the Storting must be able to have the debate they want on how they think this should be designed in order to meet it well enough, although I believe this is a good proposal from the government, which responds to many of the challenges that industry has pointed to itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e483	Espen Barth Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e488	We are many who share the concern expressed here for a large and important supplier industry, which not only creates many jobs today and important incomes to the community, but which will also be with us in the bridge into the future. I am pleased that the Council of State also confirms that this is something she is concerned about, and that there is a time for great and extraordinary action. I want to supplement the questions that have been asked with a slightly different question: does the Council of State agree that we need to set up measures to accelerate the transition to the future industries, rather than lock the Norwegian supplier industry more into a fossil economy than what might be lucky, when we are now also going to have jobs in five to ten years' time? If she agrees, what steps will she take to ensure that the choices we make now are wise both today and in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e495	I have to admit that I am a little uncertain about exactly what the representative thinks about where to put such demands in that case – whether it is in the tax changes, or whether there is something in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e500	Both of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e505	In addition, I believe that it is possible to do several things. We have also announced a green package. I think we have a very good tool in Norway. We have many good ways to support technology developments that also hit the supplier industry and the companies that have largely now focused their activity on oil and gas. But they were also very good at converting under the previous oil price drop. I think we as authorities can assist and accelerate it, make it possible, but then it's important that those companies actually exist there, also at the other end, because it's now that many of the new technologies we want to bring out are not something that is profitable on their own, so they need support. But absolutely, I share the intention that this is important to ensure even in the time we now go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e514	Espen Barth Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e519	I thank the Council of State for a good answer. I think we actually share the ambition that we should now secure the jobs we actually have today, in the jobs and businesses we actually have, but in such a way that it also builds bridges. The question is whether the state council is not concerned that we set this up so that we relate to the fact that the world out there is changing, no matter what we decide in the Storting. It is quite obvious that Europe sees the need for long-term gas differently than they have now. There is a great interest in the transition to hydrogen, for example, as a substitute for gas. You can imagine lasting changes in behaviour after the coronary crisis when it comes to new ways of working, new ways of travelling. This could be done, for example, by: take a very long time before demand will be back at the level it was, if it ever gets there. So my question is, isn't the litmus test really whether we can create a complete system that achieves these two purposes at the same time – without just prioritizing today's needs, but also making sure that the future is heavily present in the plans we make over the next few weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e530	I don't disagree. I also think that's what we're up to, precisely by bringing a green conversion package, which is announced, and there will be a lot of exciting tools. If you think about the tax proposal itself, I think there's limited space there. It's a tax system, and it kind of has to be. But we have also tried to take such considerations into account in the proposal we put forward, through, among other things. that we have pointed out that we must maintain the CO 2 tax at the same level, even if quota prices should fall in the EU, for example. It is a clear signal that we believe this is an important instrument for triggering the green projects through the tax and tax side. And then we'll soon come up with a hydrogen strategy; it's notified. We are doing a lot of exciting things on the sea wind: we have had proposals for opening up areas to consultation and new regulations. Also, I aim to get back to before the summer. Of course, we have carbon capture and storage projects. So there's a lot of important projects that happen next door, which I definitely think plays into that picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e542	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e547	My question also goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Today's Business has recently revealed enormous losses and an unculture that lacks parallel in Norway, linked to Equinor's investment and investment in the United States over the past 20 years. There are completely wild stories about the sponsorship of turkeys to NOK 700,000, huge checks that just stayed lying down, and that it was quite natural for the leaders to drive the very most expensive cars. The result is a loss of – last reported – 218 billion. kr. That's a number that the few of us have a relationship with. But there are two North-Norway courses, there's a lot more than the giant free E39 project, and we could have got awfully many nurses, kindergarten teachers and teachers for that sum. The 218 billion are from the oil that has been on the bottom of the Norwegian base. It's our oil -- our common resources. So this money has Equinor invested, wasted and lost in the United States. Equinor has been engaged in more than 30 different countries. We know that the deeply problematic investment in oil sand in Canada ended up as investment in the United States, with sales and depreciation of 4.5 billion. kr. The question that arises is about the culture that prevailed in the United States, which was also a culture in the company's investments elsewhere. As recently as in 2018, the audit firm KPMG concluded that Equinor ‘did not have effective internal control over financial reporting by 31 December 2017’. Does the Council of State think that the problems revealed by Equinor are solely an American problem? Or is there reason to believe that this is a culture of the company also in other countries? And what's done to make sure that this doesn't happen again, except that Equinor himself carries out that they've handled this now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e560	I have to start by saying that lately Equinor's foreign business in the United States has received a lot of negative attention, and that is right. What has happened in the United States, with the big losses, has not been a good business. There are huge losses, and of course there is nothing you want to see. The other side of this case is that there is a lack of internal control, a business culture that we do not believe is something a Norwegian-owned company should admit. I've had an owner's meeting with Equinor this week. My first meeting after I became the Council of State also accelerated in the light of what has happened. There we discussed, among other things: This is culture. The company and the board also said that they now see that this is something they should have been informed about when they started the cleaning job. It was unknown to the Department that there were challenges with internal control and business culture in the United States. They assure us that they have cleaned this up. I also asked what the representative here is asking if they have exposed similar challenges in other countries. They said no, they don't, and the United States is separate in that way. But they also assured me that they have cleaned this up. They agree that they should not do that, and I am glad that they also take on self-criticism. I agree with what the representative says, that it's an unhealthy way of doing business, and we're not going to have that in a large state-owned part-privatized company like Equinor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e574	I thank you for your answer. The council said after the meeting with Equinor on Monday, which she refers to, that she now wants a closer follow-up of the company, which of course should be lacking since the state is the dominant owner of the company, who has lost huge sums of money. But what does a closer follow-up mean concretely? A large part of the problem with Equinor’s investment is that what has happened has not been available: how much losses have been and how the company has behaved. Lack of publicity and transparency seem to have been one of the core values of the company once they have been made. It is therefore imperative that we now know more about what has happened, and how the company will handle this in the future. The question is whether the Council of State will publish what is now coming out through the closer follow-up it will have with the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e583	I think I just have to say that I do not fully agree that it has been little known that the company has suffered severe losses in the United States. It has been quite well known over many years. So that information hasn't been very accessible, but there's been discussions about the cumulative number. It also tells the company that they could be even clearer, it could be easier available. I agree, and that's why I'm glad they're saying that. But with regard to the follow-up of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, it is not the case that the international business, and in the United States in particular, has not been discussed in meetings in the past. There has been a theme for all meetings of the owners between the State Council and the Board of Directors since 2016. So we've followed this closely. We have also prepared our own reports from our consultant Arctic Securities, to go deeper into that business. What I'm saying is that I want to do now is to have a new meeting that goes deeper into the annual report, before the annual report becomes a topic for the owner's meetings, as it has always been. But there is an even closer follow-up to what concerns the US business and foreign investment in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e590	There will be follow-up questions – first Lars Haltbrecken.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e595	I hope that the Council of State uses the opportunity she now gets to assure us that there will be full publicity about the answers she gets from Equinor. But if a whole-time state company or a public agency had been responsible for just one million of the losses we've seen in Equinor, it would have consequences for management. In this case, it seems rather that those who have been responsible for Equinor’s investment have moved up the company and in addition received huge bonus awards. Today's Business reported last March that while ordinary employees had to pay attention to a bonus of 8,5 pst. of the basic salary, Equinor peaks received 40-50 pst, plus large share allocations. For outsiders, it may seem as if you are being promoted to your own incompetence level. Such a misstatement as these investments have been would in most other cases have led to some consequences. Will this have any consequences for the management of Equinor, for the bonus payments that are or have been, and also for the board, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e602	Yes, in my owner's meeting with Equinor I took up what has been revealed around the pay culture and the bonus payments that have been in the United States. It says the company itself that they have cleaned up, and that is not the way it should be. I think it is perfectly obvious that they also say so. What I asked the chairman of the board of directors about was the assessments about also informing the owner of the challenge they had faced when it was revealed, which I think they could benefit from. They themselves confirmed that they should. I am pleased, because this is also important political discussions that we have in Norway, not only in the case of Equinor, but in general, that go on leadership pay and how to be competitive on pay – yes – but not on pay. It's an important value that we also have to take to the rest of the world. I had a need in my meeting to be directly informed about what they have done, how it could happen, and what has gone wrong. We've discussed that. I also believe that I have received good assurances that they have cleared up these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e609	Espen Barth Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e614	I want to start by recognising that I think the Council of State has been clear in the signals she has sent through the public to the board and the management of Equinor, and thank you for a thorough answer to my written question. I think this case really has two dimensions. One is the clearing-up of what has obviously been an unculture in the U.S. bet, and that's what the Council of State has responded to. The second question that will now come is: What does the state want with its continued ownership? What is the purpose of owning the largest energy company in Norway in the time we now go into? In the public debate, it has been in the last few days, for example: an idea that ownership should be used strategically to give Equinor an even clearer renewable mandate, i.e. that Equinor should be used even more as an engine to drive the transition that we all now have to go through, just as in the 1970s a very clear mandate was given to build Norwegian competence, to support the Norwegian supplier industry, to make Norway a partner in international oil work with the others. Does the Council of State see that this discussion can lead in exactly that direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e621	I think, as the representative is involved, it's a little bit important to remember why we own Equinor. It is to maintain a leading technology and energy company with its head office function in Norway, and then it is a measure of the highest possible return over time. We have served well in Equinor over many years. Only last year we got 90 billion. kr in dividends and taxes. It has been a good business for Norway, evenly. Discussions on how to use the company deal with ownership policy as a whole. The ownership message was just adopted. I think the framework that lies there is a good framework. I believe it is the company itself that has to provide strategic assessments, for example. of how to invest, but political discussions on how to manage the company must, of course, be open to the political parties. I think ownership policy, as set out in the ownership message, is good, and then I record that the company itself makes several different choices to widen its portfolio, for example. within renewables, and I think that is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e628	Espen Barth Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e633	As regards the form of ownership, I agree that it should be professional. It shall take place through a general meeting and shall not be done by day-to-day political detailed management. This is an important principle that we have been together in Norway for many years, and which I think is a good reason to defend in this situation too. But there's something quite different than the question of what is the strategic goal of the state, the purpose of ownership, because like all other owners, the head owner, who owns 67 pst. by the company, could have a clear objective. I am concerned that this objective of course includes making money on owning the company, but the state must have some goals in addition to that. The question is a little more specific: will the Council use this opportunity to start work to see whether to adjust the country's ownership targets in Equinor, for example. to make the company even more of a renewable engine, in addition to what the company itself has done today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e638	I must admit that I am initially skeptical of such things, because I believe that the competence of e.g. where to invest is a competence of the company rather than of the politicians. I mean, for example. It would be demanding if Equinor were to be used to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, which I believe has been proposed in the context of the treatment of the ownership notification. I think that's a bit demanding. I believe that we need to have a clear distinction between the roles of ownership policy as well, and I think I just have to repeat what I said instead: when the company itself makes the assessment that it makes sense, and they see profitability in entering into renewables, it is a sign in time that you evolve in that direction. I trust that the company will also make wise decisions on such questions in the future. I believe again that it is enough that they are on that professional competence, and not I.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e644	Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e649	Equinor’s foreign investment in North America has not only been bad business, as the Council of State said, it has been a staggering, unprofessional cost management. Governments are probably aware that the Green Party has proposed that the Storting should appoint an independent commission to examine Equinor’s foreign investment in North America and also state ownership and ownership dialogue over those years, also to find out what changing governments have known and not known about Equinor’s activity in North America. I have noticed that the Council of State has asked Equinor to explain what has happened, but I do not think it is enough in any way when it is talking about as many years and also as fainting large sums as over 200 billion. kr, which actually belongs to the community. It is a huge betrayal of trust from a hugely important state-owned shared company. Does the Council agree that a downgraded investigation commission can contribute to more transparency and important information, and in that case will it recommend the High Level Group of the Right to support the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e658	I agree that the availability of the accumulated losses in the United States could be better. I am therefore pleased that the company itself now says that they want to report it in another way. But once again, we're a little bit back to what was the discussion here: it's going to be a little bit wrong to make the impression that it's only now that you've realized that there's been a lot of losses in the United States. You've been aware of that for many years. Nor, as far as I can see, is it a great connection between business culture and internal control and the huge losses. The large losses are largely due to the fall in the oil price. This is due to investments made between 2007 and 2011, a period of very high oil prices. Then the accounting values of these assets fell after the fall in oil prices, and then large write-downs were made. But also because we wanted to go deeper into this, the ministry ordered back in 2014 a report from Arctic Securities to look at the US business, and it immediately concluded: yes, there were huge losses due to the fall in the oil price, and there were also quite a number of other companies in the United States at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e665	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e670	Heir Johnsen was the founder of the Norwegian State's oil company, and as the only employee at first he slept the first days on the floor in a thin sleeping bag in an empty apartment. "I had decided to save the company for all unnecessary expenses and therefore would not stay at the hotel", as Johnsen himself said. Today we see another Statoil, or Equinor: it's listed, it's partially privatized, it's been on the buy-in radii in the United States with the purchase of a turkey for nearly a million dollars, expensive cars and big parties – and a loss of about 200 billion. kr in the United States. Now, when we see the difference in the Statoil we had, which was a state industrial venture and a success, how clever was it to part-privatize the company? And shouldn't the Norwegian state buy back the company in the Norwegian people's property, so we can own it and run it completely?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e677	I've even mumbled back to the beginning of the story around Statoil. It's worth having it with us and being reminded of it in between, and I think that's a completely natural part of this debate we have here today. However, with regard to the more political debate, whether Equinor should be part-privatised, and whether they should be abroad, I believe that the results over time, given the starting point – why the state should own this company – have been achieved as far as the objective is concerned: we have made good money on this. If the company is to be able to grow into the future, they must also have the opportunity to be present abroad. Much of what we see now they're doing abroad is directed towards the renewable side, that's where the big opportunities lie, so I think it might potentially be a loss for Norway and for Norwegian environments of competence if our largest company didn't have the opportunity. But it is a political debate. I am dealing with what is the framework of ownership policy today, for why and how we own the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e684	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e689	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. In the last few weeks, teachers, assistants and cleaners have done their best to ensure that our children have a safe school to come back to. Classrooms were built in record time, some have moved into nature. Students and employees have taken impressive steps to adapt to the new everyday life. When the situation has turned out the way it is, you're dependent on everyone joining in and pulling the load. I think people in Norway have done their best, but where has the government been? It seems to me that you were more concerned with the pickle mark. For large differences between municipalities and schools are reported at the time the children get to school. Yesterday, VG wrote that Oslo only gets a minimum of one day of school a week for all students. It's the same situation in many municipalities. To VG, the government party on the right says that the ambitions in Oslo are too low. The council itself says she's worried, and that it's small. Then I have to admit that I'm getting a little confused, because it's the direction of the government and government council Melby that's the main reason why Oslo and other municipalities can't offer the kids more school. So does the Council of State either believe that Oslo and other municipalities are now breaking the rules and offering too little school, or is it such that the Council of State really encourages municipalities to break the rules on the protection of infection so that more students will attend the school for several days? Can the Council of State clarify here: Are the municipalities making mistakes, or are there the rules for the protection of the government that are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e700	I have to admit that I am a little uncertain about what the representative asks. Does he ask if the disease protection rules are too strict and should be adjusted? Does he ask whether the government should better govern the municipalities in the way they open schools? What happened when we decided to open schools, based on medical advice, was that we made some clear priorities. We said that 1–4. priority should be given to steps. They should have a full-time offer or at least as close to a full-time offer as possible. We said that professionals with a need for workshop and practical training should be given priority, and then we said that from 11 May onwards the other students would return to school. The aim is for them to have as full an offer as possible, but where the rules on the protection of infection provide for, for example: not all students can be in school at the same time, and not everyone can have exactly as many hours as they usually have, you have to find good local solutions. There is no doubt that in a municipality such as Oslo, with a lot of schools, a lot of big schools, and not necessarily a lot of extra space, it's hard to find space for, for example. 5th to 7th Steps at the same time as 1 to 4. steps shall have full days. The schools have now been open for approx. one week. I think a lot of schools and school owners have had some experience the time it's been open, about both how they can do well to follow the code of infection and how they can give kids the best possible training. I am quite sure that everyone is going to go as far as they can, and that they will continue to do so in order to give every child the best possible offer, but I don't think it's right to give infective protection requirements or to control the municipalities more closely in the situation we're in now. I think it gives us a worse offer both in terms of training and in terms of health.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e713	My question was exactly what the government thinks, because there is confusion about the signals that the government is sending out now, when you go out in the media and criticize municipalities for the scheme they offer, which is offered on the basis of government rules. I am concerned that the government will do its part of the job, not criticise the municipalities when they follow the code, and not operate with the bar, as mentioned. I also believe that the Children’s Ombudsman’s call to the government for a rapid evaluation of the rules on the protection of infectious diseases in order to ensure that the rules are not more stringent than is necessary at all times. Experience has now been gained. It is important for schools to know whether the rules they have today will last until the summer or whether they will change. When can schools expect new adjustments to the disease protection rules – will there be days, weeks or months?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e718	Firstly, neither signed nor any other member of the government has criticized individual municipalities for the offer they make. We have commented in the media that something can be heard as a little extensive offer, but what is important to us is that we actually acquire proper knowledge about what kind of offer is offered in all municipalities, and that we also spend some time acquiring that knowledge – one week I don't think it's enough to evaluate what kind of school offer has been given to the students after reopening. That knowledge we're now working on collecting, but it'll take a little bit of time, as I said. I know that the Municipality of Oslo is facing very big challenges, that it is very demanding. I'm also pretty sure they're going far to give students something more than a minimum offer. With regard to the infectious agents, we have said from day one that there are dynamic documents. They will be updated and adjusted according to general infectious diseases rules, i.e. what other causes we take in society in terms of infection, and also when we get feedback from the sector on how they work. Therefore, they have already been adjusted once, and they will certainly be readjusted when needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e726	There will be follow-up questions – first Torstein Tvedt Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e731	I think everyone who read VG, perceived what came from the government parties, as criticism. I also fully agree with the Children's Ombudsman, who believes that the Department and Government do not have sufficient knowledge of the situation out there. I hope that the request from the Children's Ombudsman is taken seriously by the government. I would really like the Council of State to be more specific in its message to the schools about adjustments in the VDU, because we know that the Council of State has previously given schools short deadlines and spent a lot of time working in classrooms. This should have been done before. The second major challenge, in addition to the infectious diseases code, is the resource situation. The money that has come was spent as early as April, and the Children's Ombudsman is also here crystal clear that priority must be given to the resources needed to fulfil the students' rights. Municipalities and schools report massive cost increases. Billions were set aside when business was to be saved. Doesn't the Council of State mean that the schools are equally important?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e738	The only deadline that has been short for School Norway in this situation is then decided to shut down the schools, in one day. That's what they did wonderfully by offering digital classrooms about from day one. Once we've had a reopening of the schools, it's happened gradually, and you've had a good time. Already April 7th, we said 1–4. Steps were to be brought back for full 27 April. We also said very clearly that all students were going back before the summer. This means that from 7 April you had time to plan that 1 to 4. Steps were to come back, and it was opened for the other steps from 11 May, so you've had weeks to prepare this. But there's no doubt that it's very difficult anyway, it's a demanding situation. We can't just conjure up more classrooms, nor can we conjure up more teachers. From the day one, the government has been quite clear that we are going to stand up for the municipalities. Extra costs that municipalities get as part of the coronary crisis, we're going to cover. This also means that the municipalities now have an opportunity to use additional funds, including: to provide rooms and extra money for showers, if they need them – these are funds that the government will provide. We must come back to that in the budgetary procedure, and possibly also through other crisis packages.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e743	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e748	I think it's really only the Council of State in the whole of School Norway that thinks she gave the schools good time for reopening. It's a rather unison feedback, and I'm asking the government council to look more closely at the pathologist and be more specific in their feedback to the schools. When it comes to resources, I'm not asking the Council of State to magic – I'm asking her to pay for the extra costs that are. I've also heard the council say the government has to set up, but we already know the answer to that. The revised national budget was presented, and there was not enough money. The counties say the buses are ready, it's on money to get the school kiss to the municipalities. The municipalities say that the premises are available, there is money to hire them and to make room for more people. The government's answer is that this they have to look at and consider further, but now it's starting to rush. We don't have much time left of this school year, and when the municipalities now say it's on money, one should be clear that that money should and must come – so that it's not too late, and that one actually gets back this school year. The consequences of not coming money, we already see: it's cut in school and kindergarten. Can the Council of State clarify when the government is to set up?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e757	I doubt that the representative Tvedt Solberg has spoken to the whole of Skole-Norway. We have had close dialogue with all parties all the way, including with the KS and all the trade unions, and with the exception of one organisation, everyone was very clear that they had had a good time to prepare, that they were ready to open the entire school on 11 May, and that they wanted that opening welcome. It is clear that there is an extremely demanding and stressful situation – I think a lot of people in many sectors have experienced that it is difficult to predict exactly how to solve these problems, and that you actually have to do it a little after a while. That challenge I think the schools are facing, and it is clear that very many, both teachers and other employees, are experiencing demanding days. I think we should recognise that. In terms of funds, I think it's hard to say it so much clearer than what we in the government have done. We've told the government to set up, we've said we're going to cover extra costs. The reports we get from county councils, with which we have close dialogue, are that they find good solutions to school kissing, and where they haven't found it yet, they're working on it. Here I'm absolutely sure we're going to be able to find the solutions together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e766	Let's move on to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e771	It's almost three weeks since the government presented its proposal for changes in the oil tax. Since then, a mass oil industry, the supplier industry, the NHO and LO have virtually slaughtered the proposal. However, it does not seem to have made any significant impression on the government, which today expresses concern. But it's not a concern that's wanted, it's an action. Investment in oil and gas contributed to tens of thousands of jobs at sea and on land. Investments of tens of billions are now at risk only in 2020 and 2021. These are investments so large that if the government started everything that was ready and ready for the construction of road and rail projects, all that was planned by public buildings, and everything that is easily accessible by maintenance in the Norwegian community, one will not be close to compensating for the activity that might fall away in the oil and gas industry. It's serious now. Workplaces are at risk. Shipyards can go over the end, large industrial environments can be weathering. But the government doesn't move a millimeter in the issue of oil taxes. For this reason, my question to the Minister of Oil and Energy: Since it is so far in the hands of the government to make all the necessary changes and improvements in the oil tax, can the Council of State take a single measure, or several measures, which are capable of compensating for the loss of the economy of several billions, as the oil and gas industry now announces as a consequence of its government proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e780	As I have said many times earlier today, of course I share this concern. It's about up to 200,000 jobs. It is Norway’s main and largest industry. So I don't in any way agree with the premise that the representative here adds, that we haven't moved a millimeter. We have actually made a proposal for a temporary adjustment in the tax haven on the base that can trigger up to 100 billion. kr in increased liquidity for the companies. It is not an exact blueprint of what the industry itself wants, but there are opportunities here to help companies to continue planning projects and to provide liquidity, which they were busy with. For companies, early deductions mean mass. It will improve an incredibly demanding situation. I think I have to ask the representative the same question I asked a representative of the Central Party earlier today: Does the representative see the need for this to be a limited system – that it is targeted and set in a timeframe – because at some point we are going back to our normal system? What, then, are the proposals of the Progress Party? Do they have any suggestions other than the industry's own? Do they see that need? I am also concerned about stressing that I share exactly the concern that the representative has. I think this is incredibly important to get in place. I also believe that we have delivered a historical package by now entering and adjusting a tax regime in which it has over time been so important to have predictability. I still believe that it is. But there is a need for exceptional measures now, in an exceptional situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e791	If I had had such a small answer to the question I received, I would have tried to contact a new question instead of trying to answer it. But the reality is that the answer confirms what we already knew. There is not a single single measure or measure that is capable of compensating for the loss of demand that this provides for the economy. That means that the position of the government can give us a tougher setback in the Norwegian economy than necessary. And that's your crash, that's what's incomprehensible. When the government says they want people back to work in private companies, we know that there are these companies that build up a lot of the capital environment we have in Norway that can create new jobs. We don't get it if these companies go over the top. The tanning industry on Sunnmore doesn't worry about itself. Workers in Egersund, Stord and Verdal need rescue now. Then the question is, what does the government intend to deliver that actually gives more activity to these companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e796	Once again, we have made a proposal that could mean as much as 100 billion. kr to these companies, which raise projects and which in turn trigger activity. It is linked; if you don't invest in projects, if you don't have progress in projects, it doesn't become activity, nor does it become a job for the yard industry. That's up to 100 billion. SEK in 2020 and 2021 for investments to 2024 at the latest. I fully agree that this is a critical situation, and I fully share the concerns the representative has, but I think it's going to be strange to say that this is in a way not a thing – which is a bit of what the representative is creating an impression of. That's actually it. But as I answered a previous question here, we're a minority government. Now this package is in Stortinget, and that is negotiations, as far as I understand. Here the representative must contribute what he thinks are the right solutions. I believe that we have responded here to some of the most important companies that requested, which were just increased liquidity to ensure activity and progress in projects, which also require a low oil price and are profitable for the country in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e804	There will be follow-up questions – first Jon Georg Dale.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e809	It is good that the Council of State acknowledges that the job of this proposal must be done in Stortinget, as the government has not done so. We're going to do that, of course. I thought as far as it was quite revealing when the party leader in the government party left yesterday went out in the newspaper and warned other parties against listening to what she called the oil lobby – or as we others call it: Norway's most important industrial companies. Aker, Equinor, Norsk Industri, NHO and others with shoes are referred to as an oil lobby one must not right when dealing with the most important proposals to keep the activity in Norwegian industry in the future. The fact that a civil government refers to our most important industrial companies as a lobby is paradoxical enough in itself, but when one actually shows that one does not take seriously the signals coming, it gives cause for even greater concern. The question is: is the Council of State agreeing on the outcome of the Left Leader, or will it actively distance itself from defining our main industrial enterprises as a lobby?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e818	The ones I have listened to before we made this proposal are just the companies. You might say that any grouping that promotes a view is a kind of lobby, but I don't see it that way. I think these are important businesses. We've also talked to organisations, such as, those in the trade movement, Norwegian oil and gas, Norwegian Industry, etc. to get input into this package, that's quite natural. Of course, they're concerned about the future of their businesses and their members, I understand that very well. That's also what we've been trying to do by making a proposal to come up with the concerns they have. Of course, it is important to listen to recordings from what is Norway’s main and largest industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e823	Terje Halleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e828	Over 50 years, we have built up a unique expertise and knowledge in the offshore petroleum industry. It has given us enormous value creation and hundreds of thousands of jobs. Now we are at a crossroads that can have major consequences for the future of this industry and for thousands of jobs. The government has done a lot to harness the industry's competence to increase its weight in addition to petroleum, which is very often referred to as green investment. The most famous have come a long way, including carbon capture and storage and sea wind. Can the Council confirm that investments in these new industries such as carbon capture and storage or sea wind do not in any way replace job losses in the traditional oil industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e835	Yes, I think I can confirm with reasonable certainty that they do not. They don't want to replace them, but they're a very important addition and very important for what's going to happen in the future: we're going to build something new on the shoulders of what we've built up over 50 years in Norway, and come into a future that also requires new technology. I am quite proud that Norway is at the forefront in so many areas by promoting and helping to develop the technology that we know is going to be absolutely crucial for Europe and for the world in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. In all that time the Progress Party put in government and I had the pleasure of working with Tord Lien, Terje Søviknes and Kjell-Børge Freiberg on carbon capture and storage, we made enormous progress. It's very exciting, and it's important. But no, it will not only replace the important driving force of the oil and gas industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e842	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to regular Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e856	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Kari Henriksen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be raised by the representative Astrid Margrethe Hilde. Question 2, from the representative of Mr Sivertsen to the Minister for Finance, has been withdrawn. Question 4, from the representative Lene Vågslid to the Minister for Justice and Security, has been transferred to the Minister for District and Digitalisation who is directing him. The question is proposed, at the request of the Minister for District and Digitalisation, moved and answered for question 12, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 13, from the representative Cecilie Myrseth to the Minister of Defence, has been withdrawn. Question 15, from the representative of Geir Pollestad to the Minister for Fisheries and Maritime Food, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is responsible. The question is proposed, at the request of the Minister for Finance, moved and answered in response to question 3, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e876	This question, from the representative of Kari Henriksen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be raised by the representative Astrid Margrethe Hilde.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e881	‘NRK’s case ‘Discovered by the mobile phone’ shows how position data from our mobile phones are sold on to so-called ‘data dealers’ without our knowledge of it. The Consumer Council addressed the issue in the Out of Control report, where they showed how actors systematically monitor the use of apps by consumers and disseminate personal data uncontrollably. In the Consumer Notice, an action was just to strengthen privacy. What concrete initiatives has the Council of State taken against the Minister of Justice and Security and the Minister for District and Digitalisation to strengthen consumer privacy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e894	First, I would like to thank the representative for an important question, and then I would also like to thank the Consumer Council for an important report on the resale of personal data. The report reveals how companies in the advertising industry collect large amounts of sensitive personal information via different apps and share it without the consumer being aware of it. The Consumer Council concludes that the advertising industry is behind widespread violations of data protection legislation. It has now been two years since the new standards of protection, or GDPR, were introduced. In view of that, I have to say that I am very concerned about the image we see, and the developments described in the Consumer Council's survey. On the other hand, it is good that we now get concrete examples that give rise to debate. It is also important to strengthen compliance with data protection law. Digital developments, where the consumer pays increasingly with his personal data, have contributed to the increased need for cooperation between data protection and consumer authorities. Privacy is also a very important issue of consumer policy. The Government shall, as it is known, establish a Data Protection Commission. One of the issues that may be relevant to the Commission is the ability of users to safeguard their privacy through the use of digital solutions and services. This will be explained in more detail by the Minister for Digitalisation in his own reply to the Stortinget. But she has also personally engaged in this matter from the Consumer Council and the NRK. In the consumer message that I recently presented, to which the representative refers, the government comes up with several measures to strengthen digital consumer protection. I would like to highlight two measures: firstly, we are going to create a strategy for consumers' digital everyday lives where privacy will be an important topic and part of the work. Secondly, we will ensure that a cooperation forum for digital regulators in Norway is set up. Among other things, there will be: Consumer and Data Protection Supervisors cooperate closely to detect breaches of consumer and privacy on digital platforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e907	I thank you for your answer. It is reassuring that the government is looking at the matter. As a consumer, defenceless people face this industry, and there is a need to look at how, and how well, the data protection law is being enforced and what needs to be done to strengthen both the security, security and privacy of these digital platforms. Does the Minister of Consumers agree with the Workers' Party that what this consumer experienced in this case at the NRK is both unacceptable and unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e916	I believe this is unacceptable. That is why I am also pleased that the Data Protection Authority, to which the representative refers, has taken this matter very seriously and acted quickly. It is an independent supervision that now deals with the matter and that has also had dialogue with the Consumer Council. I also think it is extremely good that the report is being disseminated across Europe, and that one is also taking this most seriously at European level in the various data controllers. As I said in my main response, in the follow-up to the Consumer Notice, to which the Storting joined, I am concerned that the strategy we are going to develop, also receives privacy as an important topic. I think we just have to admit that it's huge sums to earn from being able to gather this information, and then it's extra important that it's being followed up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e925	This report is important, and the information they are now selling is so valuable that it has created an entirely new industry. Consumer position data are sold on a large scale to these commercial operators and authorities interested in knowing where people are. These companies say that the data is anonymous, but as NRK's case shows, it's not a problem to figure out who the data belongs to. What I'm asking is, do you have any concrete plans to ban this type of resale of information?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e932	Many of the questions that the Workers' Party is asking today are to be answered by the Minister for Digitalisation. As far as data protection law is concerned, I believe that this is good. The GDPR has been a great victory. When it came two years ago, I was one of those who thought it was very positive. Also, some of the challenges are that the legislation is one thing, but it is not necessarily that it is practised. When you look at the ‘Out of Control’ report to the Consumer Council, it is precisely what they also point to, that they believe it is a breach. Therefore, it is so important that the Data Protection Authority, as an independent body, follows this up and can see if there has been a breach, and then proceed with penalties. This is a topic for which I fully share my concern. As Minister for Children and Family Affairs, I would like to say that much of this is also cynical towards children. For this reason, we have been committed to strengthening e.g.: Consumer supervision, as well as looking at what is more targeted at children, in order to ensure that they are safe on digital platforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e952	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e960	«Since March, the size has adopted comprehensive and powerful economic crisis measures. However, a number of establishments in crisis throughout Norway have received little financial assistance through the follow-up of the schemes established by the government. This applies, inter alia, to: many small enterprises, enterprises with large seasonal variations, enterprises with fixed costs as a result of regulatory requirements, foundations and other activities which are not taxable and many more. What new measures will the government take to ensure these?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e967	Governments and magnification have, as the representative points out, implemented comprehensive and powerful economic crisis measures, which help to alleviate the crisis for those who have been severely affected by the coronary crisis. Since 12 March, we have been promoting economic measures to combat the crisis in five rounds. The deficit in the oil-adjusted budget balance sheet is 239 billion. kr in the revised national budget for 2020 and can be fully attributed to the outbreak of the virus. Permitting legislation has been amended to allow businesses to reduce their variable costs rapidly. The Loan Guarantee Facility provides for loans with State guarantees. The general system of business compensation is designed to help a large amount of companies with their fixed, unavoidable costs. In addition, a number of specific schemes have been developed, including: for culture, private kindergartens, airlines, travel, growing businesses and for self-employed persons. The employer’s tax has been reduced and several tax payments are deferred. In total, most establishments will be subject to one or more schemes. Several new measures are also being taken. In the revised national budget for 2020, we estimated a total fall in GDP for mainland Norway at 4pst. This year, but the figures are unusually uncertain. Compared to last autumn estimates, this represents a large loss of income for Norwegian industry. With the measures now adopted and proposed above the State budget, the majority of the loss of income in the private sector has been compensated. In the future, we will gradually facilitate even more measures to prevent infection and, at the same time, have good control over the spread of infection. It is also necessary to amend the financial measures accordingly. Some should be phased out, while others should change in a direction that makes them more supportive when the outbound and unemployed return to work, and that the activity of the enterprises can recover. During the month of May-June, the government will come back with a proposition with additional financial measures, including assessments of how we should adjust and implement some measures. The main theme of the proposition will be the way out of the crisis for the Norwegian economy. We consider measures to promote skills development and conversion, while at the same time contributing to the return of the skilled and the unemployed to work. The aim is to create incentives for increased employment, growth and security to bet. The measures will enable us to better meet the challenges ahead of us, which have been ahead of us for a long time, and which will be even stronger when this crisis is over. It is about creating more and including more, and implementing the green shift, so that greenhouse gas emissions go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e982	There are, of course, a number of establishments which, as mentioned above, have not been adequately addressed through the measures put in place. For a long time, among other things, The seasonal companies also requested and requested Stortinget: When does the concrete model come? So last weekend, there was a sketch on this model, which has clear boundaries attached to it. One is that it limits it to services, such as: means that souvenir shops and others do not end up inside. Secondly, it also states that it should relate to activities or experiences that take place in whole or in part outdoors. A number of seasonal businesses, whether hotels or rental or transport, operate indoors. What the industry itself says is that maybe as much as over 80 pst. by the establishment with it falling outside. What is the background for the government proposing such a powerful intensification here? Is one willing to look at changes in that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e989	The compensation scheme has now provided support to a large number of enterprises – about 21,000 so far in March, and already for April more than 3000 have been paid, and that is since before the weekend, when it was opened for it. This is a mechanism adapted to the acute crisis situation in which Norway was shut down. Still, companies need to be compensated for unavoidable fixed costs, but we now need to gradually look at the transition to other schemes, and the government is doing well and will have dialogue with the Storting when we present the proposition in the transition from May to June. With regard to the seasonal holdings, we have had dialogue with the NHO and Working on this. We have come up with a solution that we believe is well adapted. Seasonal farms are naturally adapted to the weather situation as well, and we think mainly of alpine plants and amusement parks, but also others who have mainly out of activity. Now we've put a sketch on this, but there's still some items left before it's completely in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e996	Of course, a hotel located in Trysil or Hemsedal, or other types of establishments located in those places, will be hit as hard as those operating the ski lift and business there. After all, society as a whole is hit, not just some businesses, and seasonal businesses are something much more, although it is very important that one also goes into concrete areas, for example. alpine and amusement parks. But then one has also outlined that one should come with a model to cover maintenance costs, which is good. There also refers to alpine and amusement parks. But there are also many others who have maintenance costs, whether it's for fire protection, it's for vehicles, or it's for indoor lifts. Some of those affected include: Traveling tivioli, which ensures that we not only have fun in a few places in South Norway, but that we have fun throughout Norway. Will a few models that also secure them?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1003	In the compensation model, we chose a digitised solution, an automated application process. That means there must be some clear criteria for what's inside, and what's outside. We gave priority to quickly getting the money out of front of the millimeters of justice. We see that the Danes, who talked about such a model before us, have not come as far as we are, because they need more manual application processing. This may mean that the money will first be in the account closer to the summer vacation. The feedback we receive is that many people are satisfied with the quick treatment we have provided. So this representative also has an important key role to play: in many contexts, the whole community is affected. We cannot adapt to such a model of compensation, but we need to think, as both the magnificence and the government, through how we can now support those communities that are particularly hard hit. It is one of the issues that the government is now considering in the communication that will come closer to summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1010	We're going to go to question 15, which has been moved forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1019	This question, from the representative of Geir Pollestad to the Minister for Fisheries and Maritime Food, will be answered by the Minister for Finance who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1024	‘Because of my government council that one, in 2020 and 2021, is going to go away from a distribution where the municipalities and county councils get 80 pst. of the revenue generated from the sale of new salmon farming production capacity?»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1029	The marine industry is a major and important industry for Norway. The industry contributes significantly to the creation of value added and employment along the coast. In the revised national budget of 2020, the government has made proposals to ensure that a share of the value creation belongs to the municipalities and counties in which the breeding activity is carried out. I remember that the Stortinget in Decision No. 4 June 2018 asked the government to set up a sample to investigate different forms of taxation of the aquaculture industry, and that the matter should be closed in the spring of 2020. With the government's proposal, the income of municipalities and county municipalities also becomes more stable and predictable. We propose to introduce a production charge to the local government sector from 2021 which replaces parts of the unstable income through the sale of new production capacity. The proceeds from the production fee are estimated at 500 million. kr and paid through the Marine Fund from 2022. There is a long tradition that unstable revenues from auctions and profit taxes fall to the State. The country has better conditions for managing fluctuating income than individual municipalities. In order to ensure a further share of the income of aquaculture communities, we propose that they should also be added 25 pst. – in addition to the production charge – of the revenue from future sales of production capacity from 2022. Overall, this results in a significant share of the public future income from the aquaculture industry from 2022. The Government proposes that the municipalities of aquaculture should also receive a significant share of the revenue from the year’s sale of production permits, broken down by 1 billion. SEK in 2020 and 1 billion. NOK 2021. Payments from the Marine Fund increased from 60 million. SEK in 2017 to SEK 2.8 billion. kr in 2018. In the last 10 years, the incomes of the aquaculture communities and county municipalities from the aquaculture industry have varied considerably. For several years, no new generation capacity was allocated, nor was any revenue received from allocations to the municipalities. In 2018, however, they received record revenues of 2.8 billion. kr. The payment in 2018 was much higher than anyone likely to see in the creation of the Maritime Fund in 2016. In comparison, the growth of free income for the local government sector was overall at about 1 %. 600 million. kr in 2018. Several marine municipalities increased between 30 and 50 pst. of the adjusted, free revenues. The government's proposals now ensure more stable and predictable incomes for aquaculture communities from 2022. The Government proposes that aquaculture communities also receive significant revenues from the year’s sale of production permits. The proposal creates predictability for both the municipalities and industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1042	I think this answer is very historyless, because the reality here is that the question applies to 2020 and 2021. A new system of current incomes for 2022, yes, we can discuss that. But Stortinget has decided that 80 pst. revenue shall go to municipalities and counties. That means that the next two years – at least in 2020 – are expected to be a 5 billion hall. kr. 80 pst. Of that is 4 billion. kr to the local government sector. What they get is 2 billion. kr. So it's going to go away 2 billion. kr, and then one presents this as a cause for rejoicing for the municipalities. My question is: Wouldn't it be the cleanest thing to stick to the decision that a mass mass increase made – I think – about 80 pst. to municipalities and counties until a new scheme is in place with a payment from 2022?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1049	The majority has asked the government to set up a sample to assess the taxation of the aquaculture communities. There is also an assessment of what municipalities and county municipalities should retain. The size has asked for this to be completed and addressed before the summer of 2020 – and this will be facilitated by the government. Our point is that with our proposal we ensure predictability of the industry. I record that the industry is mainly satisfied with the proposal. We create predictability for the municipalities, so that in the future they will receive significantly more money than they have received if you look back in time, where the incomes of the municipalities have been very low. That was $60 million. DKK in 2017 and just fine, SEK 2.8 billion. kr in 2018. In addition, we also need to consider the question of fair distribution between municipalities. Here there are some municipalities that get a lot, while other municipalities don't get anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1058	It was just a thought through when a farm fund was created – I was part of those negotiations. The high amounts that came were something that one actually saw going on. One may have been in government offices for a while when one takes 2 billion. kr and calls it persuasive. It's very special. All of them are certain that the new scheme to make a payment from 2022 will include an element of a production fee and that it will affect the other factors. The reality here is that from 2020 and 2021 onwards, coastal municipalities from Finnmark to Agder – large municipalities and small municipalities – will be reduced by a significant amount of million because of a change in the glare of players along the way. Had it not been the cleanest thing to stand on 80 pst. until 2022?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1063	I disagree. I believe that the proposal we have put forward is neat. The size has asked us to come back with an assessment and a proposal so that it can be completed before the summer. We have put forward a proposal that creates predictability for the municipalities and predictability for the industry. I also have to show that the growth in the free revenues of the municipalities in 2018 totaled 600 million. NOK, while there was a selection of municipalities that distributed SEK 2.8 billion. kr. I believe that the municipalities that provide the aquaculture industry will receive a share of the income. We want to facilitate local value creation, but we also need to have a sense of justice in this, which also makes us think about the differences between municipalities. Now we guarantee municipalities a significant share, a significant amount, in both 2020 and 2021, and that will be predictability in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1070	We go back to the ordinary question order. Question 4 has been moved and answered for question 12, so we go to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1080	‘DFØ presented on 5 May its fourth progress report on the ‘near-police reform’. The DFØ refers to statistical data and notes that there has been and is a centralisation of police resources. Is it only the government that has not yet taken on board that the so-called ‘near-police reform’ is the centralisation reform of the Norwegian police?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1087	Let me start by reading the first sentence in the report the representative refers to: ‘After four years of reform work, action in police reform begins to produce positive results.’ So this is a comprehensive quality reform, as DFØ also points out. The reform has given us better and more like police services throughout the country. The Advocate General: ‘There can be no doubt that the quality of criminal proceedings is today higher and progressively more uniform than in the past.’ So there have been several police years since 2013, as DFØ also stated in its report. However, like the representative, I believe that the reform is not perfect. It works, among other things: to be an imbalance between local police and central police disciplines — although we must remember that the central professional communities are important because they also support local police. I will both believe and hope that the representative of the Battle of Vedum and I agree that we need a police force that has competence and capacity to prevent and combat serious and complicated crime and that is prepared to deal with unforeseen events and threats. This requires sound professional environments, robust operational centres, new working methods and processes, structured cooperation patterns and an organisation that makes best use of resources. The population shall have good access to police services and the police shall be present and accessible in the communities. At the same time, we must nuance what an accessible and present police is. It's not to be employed at a lumbarist's office. It is there to prevent crime and to deal with crime, accidents, pandemics, border controls and natural disasters. It's also about being present when crime happens on the Internet. Then the police must be present and visible there, through e.g. network patrols or the National Cybercrime Centre in Kripos. Then there is no presence to appear in the streets, although it is also important. The representative Battle Violence Vedum often dreams of what things were like in the past. Let me therefore conclude by reminding you that in 2013 there were over 2,800 fewer annual police work than today. I am very happy that we have a police ano 2020. I don't want a police officer in 2030 now in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1108	I noticed that the Council of State also talked about the police in 2030 – I hope it gets better than it is today. In the rationale for the near-police reform, Prime Minister Erna Solberg made it clear that she thought it was tragic — she actually used that word — that very many of the canal offices were open only a few hours a day. It was used as a justification for shutting down a number of volunteer offices. Now the reform has worked over time. Then is my question to the Council of State Monica Mæland: Is there an average longer or shorter opening time at the remaining Länsmann offices now than it was before the reform, and is the proportion of Länsmann offices that have opening hours, higher or lower now than before the reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1117	That's exactly where the representative Battle Violence Vedum and I separate layers, because I don't measure the quality and competence of the police at the opening hours of the cannon offices. I measure them in presence when something happens, and to prevent something from happening. The patrols do e.g. a completely different job than before. For example, they're recording. on-site testimonies when recent incidents have occurred, with witnesses present when something has happened — not being called in when appropriate to the police. I know that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, will use his time, his resources and his energy to reopen cannon offices. I don't think that's the answer to our challenges. I recognize that there is a job to do in the districts. I have explained that, and I also recognise that this is a reform that has not been implemented. We're in implementation, and it's going to be evaluated in 2022. I'm going to present a police report very soon, where I'm going to explain how we're thinking about the police in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1124	The answer is that the opening hours of the remaining Länsmann offices are worse now than they were before the reform was carried out. Although state councillor Monica Meland ridicules it with opening hours as a point, it was her own Prime Minister, Erna Solberg, who said it was tragic that there were so many Länsmann offices with little opening time. So it is perhaps Prime Minister Erna Solberg who now ridicules Monica Meland. This shows that the whole reason for the reform, including: that you should have a longer opening time, obviously the reason you meant was not, when it came to the problem, because something else has happened. Another main reason for the reform was the need to have more operative policemen in the streets, by the way, in the car – who would take things into the community of people. Then is my very specific question, to which I have not yet been able to get a proper answer from Monica Mæland: have there become more or less operational police officers out now than it was before the reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1131	I'm not busy making fun of anyone. I am very much in favour of the job done with the police reform. We've gained more quality, we've gained more competence. I understand that the Central Party and the Representative for Violence Vedum do not want to listen to that ear, but we do have a police force that is much better guarded against the crime and the methods we need today. We're also going to have visible and local police, and they're going to be present in the whole country, but we have to assume that the crime scene is something different today than it was before. That is why I believe that police reform is important. I really hope that no one will turn the clock back after the election next year. It would be very, very sad considering the challenges we have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1139	‘The government has shown that they are happy with temporary employment, including in the justice sector and the police. According to the Police Forum, 561 graduate policemen stood without a job in the department on March 31st. The Minister of Justice said in March that the police will have 400 temporary posts with the following reasons: ‘In a very difficult time, the police will have to have the personnel they need to ensure safety, law and order in Norway. This is why we are strengthening preparedness in Norway by up to 400 policemen.’ Is this a recognition that basic police preparedness is not good enough?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1146	I could have done this very briefly by saying no, but I can add a little bit more. So it is – and with all due respect I also hope that the representative has discovered it – that we have a crisis in this country. It is a recognition that we are in crisis, that the police must be operational even in a national crisis, and that we are suffering from disease. We got quarantine regulations, and we got more responsibility as a result of the crisis, among other things. to border inspection. The police have done an amazing job, and I really want to praise them for the job they have done and do in this crisis. Of course, we have contributed to this by increasing the number of posts, and it comes to the top of the 2,800 more posts that the police have today compared to 2013. So it's the way the police are strengthened, the preparedness is strengthened. Social security, border control, return work, modernisation, ICT security and the fight against trafficking in human beings, sexual offences and violence and child abuse have been strengthened. Police are the most important response resource. They constitute the basic preparedness by being present throughout the country and by having the right skills. The government has been committed to strengthening basic preparedness through the recruitment process, which I referred to instead. All police districts have more police officers, and everyone has more police coverage today than they had when the government joined. – I see that the representative looks a little impatient, but these are the facts that the representative himself has asked for. So basic readiness is much better today than it was before, and it's strengthened because we have a national crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1155	The Minister of Justice cannot escape the fact that we have over 550 policemen who are not at work. We also have limits, which are some of what the temporary ones are going to do, which in a normal situation are heavily understaffed, and we have a border crime like this. In Finland, there is clearly no control because there is no time to follow it up. So you could have done the basic manning much better, even in terms of the usual situation. The police officers in the Inland and in the South-West have already announced that this year they must cut their crews to keep the budget. If we look at the numbers of crews this year, both of these police districts have already reduced their staffing considerably, and according to the police's own statistics, the Inland has, for example, the lowest police crew of two years. South-West has the lowest number of police now since December 2017. So the question is, does the Council of State see that this has consequences in the police districts that lose police personnel, especially when the near-police reform sucks all the people into the largest cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1162	I wonder a little bit about the entrance to the question. After all, the fact that policemen are unemployed when they are newly educated is no different from the fact that all other professional groups are. It is true that over the years we have accepted that nurses, for example. have had serious problems getting a regular job, at least 100 pst. job, and engineers can be available, hairdressers can be available, and teachers can be available. So the normal situation is that newly educated students are available. Unfortunately, in the current situation, it is going to be an even greater problem that newly educated people are unemployed, and there is no police situation other than that of other professional groups. This government has made the police a budget winner every year. We have strengthened every police district with more policemen, so you have a higher base crew than before. You also have response time, which you didn't have before, so much in the police force is strengthened. And then we still have one more piece. I'll explain that in the police report, which is very soon to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1169	I do not fully agree with the Minister of Justice that policemen are exactly the same as other completed students. We have the opportunity to regulate police training based on the needs we have in the police case, so it's a little strange that we have more than 500 policemen without a job when we needed them in the basic personnel out in the police department. There has been a slight increase, but much of the increase has just come from police officers in the office, who are at the core of the main seats in the new police districts. So far this year, the South-East police district has reduced 34 years' work. There's a lot for a police district that's already struggling. They have not had a lower number of police officers since May 2017, and the South-East actually had a higher rate of increase in police year-on-year in 2013 alone than it has in the last seven years. So how long will the Council of State refuse to open its eyes because there is a critically low police force in many districts after the near-police reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1174	I just have to be very clear: there are more police now after the police reform than before. There's more competence, there's more quality. That's the actual situation. Then I recognize that we have a completely different reality picture. The fact that the Center Party is now going to spend money and resources reopening the janitor's office is absolutely amazing, and that you're not willing to look at a crime development that's completely different today than it was before. Winning crime has fallen dramatically, but the detection of sexual crimes against children requires people in an office, which I understand the representative is not so much a fan of. It requires people in offices with skills and tools that are completely different today. So it's a strengthened police force. That doesn't mean we shouldn't go on, because we have to, but then we have to work on the basis of the reform that we are now in the middle of, and that I believe strengthens the police, not weakens it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1186	‘The police staff survey published on 11 May shows that job satisfaction is falling in the Inland police district. At the same time, we know that according to police officer Johan Breek, the Inland Police Department must cut $50 million in the year’s budget. On 31 March 2018, the police district had 10 fewer police posts than at the end of 2018. Does the Council of State see that the government's coup d'état of police districts leads to a decline in staff satisfaction?»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1193	The police staff survey for 2020, which was recently published, shows that most people are doing well at work. They identify with the community mission, have a good relationship with their closest leader and are proud to work in the police. This is the police's own investigation, which the police obviously have to base on the follow-up. That's also what the police director said they'd do. There is a high response rate, and it provides a good basis for follow-up, including in the Inland Police District. There is something about the premise in the question that I am responding to. I think you have to be a member of the Center Party to think that more than 3 billion. More in the police operating budget and more than 1500 police officers in the districts are strangling the police. On the contrary, the police have been budget winners in every state budget under this government. It is the police themselves who govern the police districts by allocating resources. The Directorate of Police reports that by the end of March this year, the Inland had 173 more annual work than the corresponding units had in 2013. I don't remember the Central Party in the government thinking that in 2013 the police were being bullied. Now we are in 2020, and there are many more annual works. The budget for the Inland Police District has increased by about 25%. Twenty-seven million. SEK from 2019 to 2020, i.e. in one year. At the same time, the 2019 accounts show that the police district had an additional consumption of about 50 million. kr, which must be covered by 2020. I understand that it can be demanding. It is not due to cuts by the government; it is due to increased consumption in the district. We know that the resource situation in some districts can be challenging, but there are no points to say that it was better before. The government has prioritised resources for the police, and we're still going to do that. We have better quality and better results than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1206	Either way, it's 50 million. kr to be saved in the country of origin. Nevertheless, we are repeatedly told — even today — that police preparedness has never been better. When, on written questions from representative Jenny Klinge, the Council of State does not want to give figures on how many patrols are operational now or before the police reform, but answers that the police are evaluated on the basis of criteria other than the number of patrols, it is almost provocative – perhaps not for us, but especially for those who work on the floor. One of the main arguments from the Right and the Advance Party to shut down 126 LEN's office was that they wanted to release funds for more police patrols and top modern equipment. As long as the lenght offices are closed or have reduced opening hours and the number of employees is halved and the patrol districts are getting bigger, the police are actually the only visible presence in a car. I repeat the question that has been asked earlier: have there been several operational patrols in the districts after the police reform, and are they equipped with top modern equipment, which was promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1215	I can repeat this over and over again: the police have more competence, they have better quality, there are more policemen employed. So there's a lot going in the right direction. But the police reform has some weaknesses. We have to do something about that, but the answer is not to turn the clock back to 2013, counting the number of patrols and counting the number of officers' offices, and saying that we were much better then. No, we weren't. Probably there was great darkness when it came to crime, especially crime committed against relatives and children, crime that was not revealed. We probably have a situation now that is much better, and that we're going to work on. But there are weaknesses, and we're going to work with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1220	The reason we spend so much time on this matter is that the near-police reform was sold in by saying that there would be less bureaucracy. Several smaller sites were to be grouped, with increased competence as a result, apparently in order to achieve increased presence, more patrols, more capacity. It would reduce the response time – yes, one would get more police for the money. The development of Uppland illustrates exactly the opposite. According to the SSB, the number of employees is reduced from 501 to 469. In Hedmark, the number increased from 491 to 656. There's the main seat. In Lom, the number is reduced from 14 to 5, on Dombås from 11 to 4. Even in Lillehammer, there are fewer employees now than it was before the reform. In Gjøvik, the number is reduced from 177 to 156. The winner is Hamar, who had 356 employees at the end of 2019. There's an increase of 216 employees. What does the Council of State add to the concept of ‘near-police reform’?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1227	I'm adding that we have better skills, more quality, more policemen, they work better, resources find each other more. I am also looking at the development of statistics that important issues and the most important issues are given priority, and we are discovering more. That's what I'm putting in the reform. It's an honest thing that the Center Party has been against it all along – it's completely eel-ridden. We can discuss it, and we're probably going to go into an election campaign where the Central Party's answer is more like a loner's office. My answer is not that. That is not the answer to the challenges of the future. That's not the answer to the challenges we have today, either. Rather than reopening the janitor's office, I want to detect and prevent crime, especially serious crime. That's the starting point. The country had 173 more annual works in 2019 than in 2013. It's called the Center Party a "strupping". I totally disagree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1239	‘The close police reform ensures an operational, visible and accessible police force, which will be there where people are,’ said Minister of Justice Anders Anundsen in February 2015. DFØ's status report shows that this has not happened. According to the SSB, there has been a massive centralisation of police officers in the period 2016-2019, with some 1,700 more posts at the main seats of the police districts and fewer police officers in almost half of the country's municipalities. Is the government aware that there are people living in places other than the 12 main seats of the police districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1246	I refer to my answer to the question from the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, who raises the same issue as his party trap now does, about the DFØ report. The starting point is that it shows that we're on the right track. The report shows that the reform measures deliver results. Reform measures provide better quality, more consistent services and make the police deliver better services overall now than they did four years ago. But of course, the population should be able to expect the police to be present with quality and competence throughout the country. That is why it is good that all police districts have more police officers and that all police districts today have a higher police coverage than they had when the government joined, which has also helped to strengthen basic preparedness throughout the country. I'm recording that the representative Borch uses the municipal boundaries as a sort of facility for the allocation of police resources. Of course, I could say a lot about the need for municipal reform – I should not – but let me assure the representative that the police now, as when the Senter party was in government, also fight crime elsewhere than in the municipalities where the office is located. That's the whole point of patrols, that they're mobile, and that they work in larger units. At the same time, as the Central Party was a government, so that it is the responsibility of the police officers to dispose of the resources and to organise the organization so that each police district solves its social mission, including the need for proximity, in the best possible way. It is not that because a police officer has office space in one municipality, he does not fight crime in other municipalities. On the contrary, precisely because police reform has given a more effective structure, more policemen could be out there fighting crime where crime actually occurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1257	I notice that the Council of State says we're on the right track. But then I can take a concrete example from my own home country, Troms, because earlier this year the police chief sent letters to all the municipalities to initiate savings and investigation of a new organisational structure. It is also critical that the municipalities are not included in this process at all. The situation in Troms is unclear, and it is serious. In the last letter sent to the municipalities by the police chief, the police chief also says that the number of geographical holdings is to be negotiated – that is, once again. My question to the Council of State is: how can it be said that there are more police officers in the districts when, for example, The police chief in Troms has put all the investments that were agreed in the police reform on hold, and selected posts will be available on a temporary basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1264	This I can say because I can count. And that's how we now, this year, are going to reach two per thousand. We were never near it when the red-green government crashed. Then I'm familiar with the letter that's been sent out, and I think that's very funny – and that's what I asked the Police Directorate about – given that all the police districts have been given increased resources. But we are familiar with, as I have explained earlier today, that some police districts have used more than what they have had budgets for, even though the budgets have increased, and then, of course, they have to govern after that. It is not the case that geographical holdings are subject to the police's own assessments, that is what is laid down in the police reform, which is laid down in the Stortinge, and which is determined here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1271	The letter from the police officer in Troms is not to be misunderstood, and it will have great consequences. It is serious and will contribute to further centralisation of services and significantly more pressure on an already marginal emergency service in Troms. The police chief says that since the organisational structure is under investigation, no new house rental agreements will be concluded. It's about the rent agreement for a new police house at Setermoen, it's about the offices in Harstad, it's about the offices at Finnsnes, and it's about the offices at Storslett. What will happen to the police houses and offices at Setermoen, Finnsnes, Harstad and Storslett? And is the state council through the police chief here trying to centralize all the services of the police in Tromsø to Tromsø?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1276	When I smile, it's because on the contrary, it's not up to the individual police officer to decide his own geographic structure. It's decided. And then I'm very happy with the information that Borch here gives. It gives me an opportunity to ask questions to the Police Directorate. This is not the case in any police district. But you have to deal with the budgets you have, and if you've spent too much money, you have to do it wisely, but not so that you can drop out of the office.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1286	‘Fishing companies at Værøy report that they have to fight for a timebooking with the police in Bodø in order to register EEA citizens who are going to work in the company. It may take several weeks for these workers to get an hour, and this goes beyond both companies and employees. Will the Council of State look at the possibility of simplifying this process so that the fishing industry and its employees do not have to wait unnecessarily for several weeks before they can contribute to coastal value creation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1293	The Ministry of Justice and Security has asked the police to open the public receptions again, in so far as it is possible to reconcile with the current infectious disease council to open offices. It has been working for several weeks throughout the country, and I expect it to happen at the Foreign Office of the Police. The police now have limited opening hours, which means that you do not get an appointment to register until after 90 days. On the websites, the police provide information on current waiting times. The registration system itself is a simplified procedure. The purpose of the registration is for the Norwegian authorities to have an overview of which EU/EEA citizens live in Norway. Swedish, Danish, Finnish and Icelandic citizens can work in Norway without registering with the police, but they have to report moving to the People's Register. Personal presence is important for the police to check the identity of EEA citizens and to detect any abuse of the scheme. It is therefore difficult to see the scheme further simplified. This is a regulation for which my colleague, the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs, is responsible, but I understand that a late registration will not have any consequences for the right of residence of the EEA citizen in Norway or for his/her ability to start working. Since EEA citizens can start to work before the personal presence of the police has been completed, this simplified procedure should not be a major problem for the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1302	I have to try to get the minister to understand what's going on. This problem arose long before the coronary crisis. I was on Værøy, and then I heard stories about how people in the administration were getting ready with more PCs at 0 p.m. 14 Fridays, because that was when new hours were spent. They sat there ready for battle, had people who were ready to start working – but then they don't get hours. This was a task that was done by the local Länsmannskontoret. It took ten minutes. This is not something that comes about because of the coronary crisis. With the arrangement as it has now been, it seems as if it is an arrangement to use the agency and not get employees who add tax revenue locally. – Then the Council of State has been given a clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1311	I didn't understand. I realized that this was linked to the Korona crisis and limited audience opportunities. I believe, of course, that there should be resources available for business to get the necessary personnel. And there's absolutely no call for agency personnel, just to have it said. This with identity is important, and we need to have some procedures for it, but that's why it's also essential that you start working before you have implemented these procedures. I have to come back to the representative, as this is linked to a concrete place in the country and completely independent of the Korona crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1320	In fact, since February, there has been an attempt to register employees. Nor did it succeed before the Korona crisis. If one of the workers who is going to contribute to value creation is so lucky to get an hour next Wednesday, he has to take the ferry at noon. 05.15 to Bodø. He'll be in Bodø by noon. 10th@item: inlistbox So it takes five hours. If he gets an hour earlier, he must travel the day before. Then he's going back again, and then he's going to leave at noon. 01.45 and is at Værøy at 01.45 p.m. 04.30, that's in the middle of the night. It'll be 24 hours. This isn't close-up police at all. Is it possible to look at concrete measures to get a) this done a lot faster, without fighting in the hours, or b) get it sorted locally?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1329	Both yes and no. I will admit that after a visit to Denmark, I asked the Minister of Justice at that time if we could not get the municipal houses to issue identification papers and passports. It's not going to work at all, given the scarfs you're doing in terms of identity. This is very demanding, and it takes a high degree of security and competence to issue identification papers, for example: What we must be able to imagine is more mobile solutions, so that rather than everyone has to go to the police, the police have to leave. This is something we're working on. I am aware that this is demanding. There are demanding places in Norway where you depend on seasonal labour and travel time is long. It's demanding because you have to face up in person to establish identity. But we're working on this, and I hope we'll get more and better mobile solutions that can be where people are.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1340	‘Corona survivors who have been in intensive care may face significant health challenges. Professionals have warned that our existing rehabilitation services are not good enough to handle this. What measures has the government taken to ensure that this patient group has rapid access to good practice, and how does the government feel it has facilitated such rehabilitation in its proposal for a revised national budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1347	The coronary apathy has given Norway a new challenge in terms of capacity and competence in the healthcare service. Some patients have been hospitalized and intensively treated. The disease species differ according to age, underlying disease and general condition prior to coronary infection. Some will need rehabilitation. Many countries assess the content of effective rehabilitation services for covid-19 patients. This applies to new forms of lung rehabilitation, but also to assistance with e.g. nutrition, difficulty swallowing and psychological reactions. Although covid-19 is a ‘new’ disease, there is also a long experience in Norway with severe lung injury and lung rehabilitation in the specialist health service. Competence exists particularly in the lung outpatient clinics in hospitals, in private rehabilitation institutions and at the Sunnaa hospital. The eastern part of the country and the hospitals in the south-east of the country have treated most seriously ill so far in the pandemic. The Medical Rehabilitation Board in the South-East has started work on developing a patient course for the rehabilitation of patients with covid-19. The hospital in Vestfold has already developed a patient course that also includes rehabilitation in the home municipality. Sunnaa Hospital accepts patients who need rehabilitation after covid-19. The hospital provides guidance on rehabilitation for patients, relatives and health professionals also in the municipalities. Bærum Municipality has established a separate department for the rehabilitation of patients with covid-19 after hospital discharge. In the revised national budget, the government has taken into account the growing need for rehabilitation. We're proposing to increase the hospital framework by 6 billion. kr. This includes, inter alia: compensation for additional costs of treatment, including the rehabilitation of the covid-19 patients. The municipalities have also, overall, been given a better room for action. It is assumed that virus outbreaks in general involve increased costs for municipalities related to infectious diseases equipment, infection tracking, additional cleaning costs, increased use of temporary workers and economic social assistance. Due to the considerable uncertainty about the impact on municipalities, the government will follow developments closely, including: set up a working group to provide professional assessments of the economic impact on the local government sector. According to the Health Directorate’s priority note on health care in Norway under the covid-19 pandemic, patients with newly emerging significant disability and need for rehabilitation should be given priority. My impression is that it also happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1370	I thank you for the answer and am glad that I now hear a slightly more offensive health minister than when I asked a written question about the same in April. Then the answer was that at that time the professional community would not be burdened with any need for post-treatment, training and rehabilitation after illness. It is also true that some professionals have been out in the media and warned that the offer is very bad. A few weeks ago, Jon Laake, at the Rikshospitalet, was in charge and announced that there was no standing offer for rehabilitation today, and that therefore the great effort made at the hospitals for some of the patients was at risk of going to play because they were referred back to themselves. Norwegian association for physical medicine and rehabilitation has also been concerned about that situation and said that it is possible that there is significant loss of prediction for the individual patient, and the accompanying economic consequences of this at community level because a rehabilitation offer has not been put in place that has been good enough. Is it now that the Minister of Health believes that we will not have a situation after which some patients will have an unnecessary loss of functioning because there has been a lack of provision for rehabilitation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1379	As the representative is aware, before Easter we were in a situation where very large resources in health care were made available to the emergency room, and where one also cancelled quite a lot of the planned treatment, including rehabilitation. It was all about patients. After Easter, however, the situation has changed as a result of the control of the spread of infection, and after Easter health services were also assigned to return to more normal operations. This means that someone is now using the rehabilitation services that are available, including for these patients. And as I also said in my answer, there are a number of initiatives going on targeted at this patient group. Then there will be an individual assessment for the individual patient of the level at which he needs rehabilitation. Some people have a major need and will, for example: go directly from the hospital into extensive rehabilitation in Sunnaas. Others will need more specialised rehabilitation elsewhere, while others will be able to cope with rehabilitation in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1386	I thank you for the answer, and I really hope that we get a good system in place. Among other things, we saw: after the swine flu, there were some people who felt that they were not getting a good enough rehabilitation offer. In 2018, the Health Directorate presented a report on the rehabilitation offer in the specialist health service and in the municipalities. It is good if people can get good rehabilitation in their municipalities, and then it may be natural to build down some rehabilitation in the specialist health service. But that report said that there had been a reduction in specialist health care without evidence of similar construction in the community health service. Is the Minister of Health certain that, in the transition between specialist health services and community health services, we will catch up with all the patients who might now have a need for proper rehabilitation, after having been through a tough period of the coronary virus?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1393	With the extent that we have now had of patients in this area, I believe that we in Norway are well equipped to provide a good rehabilitation service. But that doesn't mean that it's not likely this time too will be things that can be improved, and now there's also a large research program that will follow some of these patients, also towards rehabilitation, and it'll probably also provide us with new and useful knowledge. There's no guarantee that everything will work 100 pst. I don't think any of us can ever give, but that this works well, I have a clear impression of. These are patients where some of them have been through very extensive treatment and have been very ill, and need more extensive rehabilitation. I perceive that our highly specialized rehabilitation institutions are also prepared for it and accept patients. Then, too, the municipalities have been better equipped through the rehabilitation plan to provide an offer to their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1405	‘The payments of compensation of pay for days 3 to 20 of the period of leave are completely blue, Nav reported this week. Can the Council of State explain the initiatives taken by the Council of State to make this decision on enlargement effective, and when will this money be paid?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1412	Thank you for the question. This is an issue affecting many outsourced workers, and it is unfortunate that the pay compensation scheme has been delayed compared to what was first notified. At the same time, it is also important for me to say that before a unanimous decision was taken on this scheme, we were also very clear on the information we provided. Among other things, I quote: from the answer to a budgetary question from the Workers' Party, where the Ministry writes: The establishment of any new income insurance schemes will not be possible in the short term, i.e. it may take several months to put new systems in place. The same could apply if new groups are to be included in established schemes. Furthermore, Nav is facing very large cases, which will challenge the agency's procedural capacity. Nevertheless, of the twelve decisions given to Nav, which made either major changes to existing schemes or new schemes, eleven are now in place, but compensation is unfortunately delayed. The reason for this is that the technical solution that Nav originally took on would have led to a number of errors, and many would not have received the money that they needed. It was due to the fact that the reported information from employers to the ‘A’ scheme, on which the solution was based, proved to be insufficient. Nav has worked under a very strong time pressure to establish a number of new schemes in a short time, and in an exceptional situation, unexpected problems sometimes arise. This is the type of problem that is common in investigations, development and testing, with the possibility of opening up and correcting. In this case, it is not possible. The Ministry has worked closely with Nav to find an alternative solution that can be established as quickly as possible and with a high degree of automation. This is absolutely necessary, so that the payment can start as soon as possible. Briefly outlined is the main model currently being worked on, based on the fact that the employer provides the figures on which the compensation of employees is based. Nav has briefed the social partners on the solution, and some employers have also been tested. With the important reservation that new unforeseen issues may continue to arise, a new model will be opened up for searching in the first half of June.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1427	I am grateful that the Council of State refers to the reply letter of 19 March, which was given to the Committee in response to the Workers' Party's question of 13 March. But the problem is that it is stated in the Ministry's press release of 20 March: 'The Member States will take over the liability for payment as of 20 March.' And then a new press release came from the Department on 14 April, which goes on the same thing, where the Council of State says, 'The new system is simple, so that it is manageable for Nav.' Then we're in today's situation. A lot has gone wrong, a lot has failed, it's about tens of thousands of people. My question is then: why didn't the Council of State come back to Stortinget with an alternative way of doing it, so that one could get a quick payment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1434	Let me first say that here is a system that applies back in time, even if the system is not in place. That is, from March 20th, the scheme will cover the corona-permites, even if the search itself is not in place. Then on 14 April, when we completed the regulations, which were based on the information we had then, this was a system that was to come, based on the employee's own application. As we had announced, it would come at the beginning of May. What happens then, as I also explain in my first answer, is that Nav, when they get even a little bit further, sees here that there is a scheme that in the worst case will lead to large mispayments, or very unprecise payments. In other words, you have to have a different type of system. The size decision is general, it is a pay compensation from 3 to 20 days, and therefore the size is orientated, among other things. through questions here, and also in another, appropriate way, but it has not been natural to come back to the Storting on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1443	I thank you for your answer. In the case of the daily allowance after day 20, a prepayment scheme has been established, a prepayment within the limits to be paid to him. It should have been possible to make a simple advance payment in a similar way for the first 18 days, at a level below what he would get. I can't see that the Storting would say no to it, because the situation we are currently in is that it is not yet paid – after two months – and the Stortinget's point was that this scheme, together with the sickness scheme, should be in place first, to ensure the employer and employee in the critical phase that one is now in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1450	There was no assumption from Stortinget that this should be in place first. Nor can the Stortinge mean all the time we gave clear information that these schemes would take some time to develop, even though Nav has now done so – many of the schemes, at least – in a shorter time than we suggested. But if we now rewind: if on March 20th – or March 25th, or at the end of March – I had known that the system with which Nav then worked would be delayed, it is quite obvious that it would be sensible to make an advance arrangement. But what we worked out from then on – we established the regulation, that was one of the last things we did before the Easter holiday – was that the arrangement that Nav worked on would work, and that it could come early in May. When it turned out not to be technically possible, although Nav has worked at record speed, it has now been important to use the time to get a system in place in the first half of June.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1460	‘In the NRK’s case ‘Declared by the mobile phone’, it was found that position data from our mobile phones are sold to so-called ‘data dealers’ without our knowledge of this. The companies say that the data is anonymous, but as the NRK's case shows, it was easy to find out who the data belonged to. How will the Council of State address this in the Notice of paper on Computer Innovation, and is it relevant to provide incentives to companies promoting privacy-friendly solutions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1467	I would like to thank you for a very important question from the representative of Aasen-Svensrud. I am very happy that the matter is discussed in Stortinget, because there is no doubt that the NRK revealed in this case, «Discovered by the mobile phone», is deeply alarming. The case illustrates that seemingly anonymous information may not necessarily be. The data could be easily linked to specific individuals and used for anything other than the ones for which they were originally collected. I believe we have a good and strict data protection law in Norway through the pan-European data protection regulation. In a matter like this, it is absolutely essential that international cooperation works well. I am therefore pleased that the Data Protection Authority reacted very quickly, went into this matter and discuss it with its British colleagues now. Overall, data protection has a central role in developing better international cooperation to stop unwanted use of personal data. This case raises questions about what is a valid consent under the Data Protection Regulation. Information must be provided to enable the user to understand what they agree to if they choose to use the service. The responsibility for developing an intelligible user condition lies with the actors processing the personal data. In the notification of data-driven economy and innovation, it is natural to discuss these issues. Because if we're going to be able to create increased values out of different data, we're totally dependent on us as citizens having confidence that privacy and security are being protected, and that personal data is not going to get out of hand. The Government will consider measures that can help ensure a high level of privacy for individuals in the rapidly growing data-driven economy. It's not just that it has to be legal, it's also about ethical use of data. And in the government's strategy of using artificial intelligence, we gave these ethical assessments a central place. That is also why the government wants to set up a Data Protection Commission. And one of the issues that the Commission needs to look at is precisely the user's real choices and ability to maintain their own privacy through the use of digital solutions and services. It may also be interesting to take a closer look at the possibilities of measures encouraging the use of labelling schemes, or certification mechanisms for good privacy, which the representative is faced with as a current issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1478	I thank the Council of State for a good and detailed answer. As the Council of State is in it, these companies say that the data are anonymous, but as the NRK indicates and as the Council of State points out, it is quite easy to find out who the data belongs to. The companies that deal with our personal data operate across borders. The council said to the Day Revy last week that she would follow up on this, among other things. with his English colleague, and the Council of State was within this in its reply instead. How will the Minister for Digitalisation actively follow up on the work on this internationally? Is it possible to say a little more about what has already been done, in addition to what the State Council mentioned with the Data Protection Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1485	Yes, it is good that we have a powerful data protection agency that stands up for privacy and to protect us, and it is very important that those who are right now are going into the matter and are looking at how they can follow it up in an appropriate way. They are in contact with their British colleagues, but we will also be in contact, both with my British counterpart, when we see how the matter develops from the Data Protection Agency, and also with the European Commission, at political level, just to inform about this specific matter on which the representative is involved, and to see it in a broader sense. There is no doubt that these are international companies that operate without intervention by the Norwegian authorities, and the way to strengthen the privacy of the population is through international cooperation. Here it is important to show the specific case and the serious consequences it can have for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1490	The Council of Consumers states that European Data Protection Supervisors use all the measures they have under Article 58 of the GDPR. This includes, inter alia: issuing corrections and stopping illegal data processing in cases where the processing has a significant impact on data subjects. Do the Councils agree to this? How does she monitor this in European cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1495	As I said, it is important to make the consequences of this particular case visible to our international partners, but also to see it in a wider perspective. What we are facing here is a tearing trend from day to day and week to week, and although our law is relatively up-to-date, we must ensure that we have a law that can be applied to the development that is taking place and to meet the needs of our citizens. So there's also one thing that's important to say: we have a problem in making known the consequences to the users when you download apps, and when you download solutions. Do you understand what you're saying yes to? We have to keep working to make it visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1502	We then go to question 4, from the representative Lene Wagslid to the Minister of Justice and Defence. The question will be answered by the Minister for District and Digitalisation, who will address it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1510	‘In 2018, the EU Data Protection Regulation was implemented in Norwegian law. In order for this strengthening of privacy to become a reality, we rely on good and effective enforcement. The mobile NRK revealr shows that the position data is sold on a large scale. What has the Council of State actively done to comply with and enforce data protection law, and what plan does the Council of State have to strengthen our privacy in meeting with an industry that will benefit from our personal data and our privacy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1517	I would like to tell the representative, Lene Waogslid, that I am very pleased that we can discuss this in Stortinget, because there is no doubt that what the NRK reveals is worrying. It is important for Stortinget to look at how we are going to ensure that we have an up-to-date legislation that protects our citizens. As the representative has entered into force, the new Data Protection Act entered into force in the summer of 2018. It implements the EU Data Protection Regulation. Since the Regulation is a common EU and EEA legislation, it is not possible to lay down specific national rules to a lesser extent. The main follow-up we can do is to ensure that legislation is complied with and to contribute to change through international cooperation. The Data Protection Authority is responsible for the enforcement of data protection law in Norway, including the competence to impose an infringement fee. Supervision carries out its tasks and exercises its powers in full independence. I trust that the supervisory activities are carried out in a good way. I invited the Data Protection Authority to provide information on the matter that the NRK revealed, to be informed about how they work on the matter, how they follow it up and how they cooperate with their British colleagues to discover what has happened in this specific case. In order to ensure a harmonised understanding of the legislation, all data supervisory authorities of the Member States are represented in the European Data Protection Council. The Council of Data Protection Supervisors shall develop guidance on how to understand the provisions of the Data Protection Regulation. The Data Protection Board actively participates in the Data Protection Council and has taken on leadership roles in several major works. The Government considers this to be positive because it allows the Data Protection Authority to influence the pan-European interpretation and application of the Data Protection Regulation. The Government is concerned that the Data Protection Authority has sufficient resources to carry out its social mission, including the proper handling of international work, and the budget of supervision has therefore been strengthened in recent years. The specific case identified by the NRK is now under assessment by the Data Protection Authority, which the representative knows about. As the case concerns a British company, the Data Protection Authority is in contact with the Data Protection Authority in the United Kingdom. The case illustrates general data protection challenges in collecting and reusing personal data from different apps and digital services. These are issues I'm concerned with following up on the new big business message on the computer economy. A new data protection commission will be in place and will be mandated to discuss this, because here it is a tearing development, on which we, as authorities, have to adhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1532	Thank you for your answer, thank you very much. What worries me, and which certainly also worries the Council of State, is that the hall of position data in this way can also be abused by criminals and also poses a national security risk. One important point is that the personal data collected is so many that there is no distinction between children, consumers, state councils, special soldiers in the Defence. The NRK has shown more examples of this, and the Consumer Council's report is also quite broad. Therefore, it is not appropriate to view this as a purely consumer problem, a privacy problem or a security problem – we need to see it in context. Here the problem is open to this cynical business model and that the law is not being followed or enforced well enough in several European countries. My question to the Council of State will be how she will cooperate with the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Consumer Affairs, perhaps also the Minister of Defence and the rest of the government in the further work to ensure that this is done as widely as I think it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1541	Thank you for a good question. Just what's at the heart of this is that this isn't just about the consumer perspective, although it's very important that all of us who are users of a smartphone should know what we're saying yes to when we download the apps. But now I think very much of it is so complicated information that it's hard for users to decide on it, and here the companies have a very important responsibility for the fact that the downloaders know what the consequences of it are. Then, together with my colleagues as mentioned by the representative, I will now follow up on the work internationally, including at ministerial level, and not least through the European Commission, because this also has security aspects. I look forward to having a Data Protection Commission that will discuss this carefully, contribute to public debate and provide information on the consequences of the digital society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1550	Thank you very much for your answer. I am very happy that the government takes it seriously and wants to raise the problem the way they do. These are issues that concern a lot, and we know, both the council and I, that many reacted strongly after the NRK disclosure. So that's what I thought was positive. While the Data Protection Authority has been strengthened for 2020, we know that, in the further work, the Data Protection Authority will do what we expect in order to enforce the law, there is a need for both more competence and resources. Will the Council of State comment on any plans to further strengthen the Data Protection Authority? It might also have been interesting for Stortinget to the right when the government plans to put this data protection commission down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1559	To the last, I hope to do it as quickly as possible, but I am concerned that we have a wide range of competences, that there are people who have an in-depth insight into privacy challenges, but also what it means for our everyday lives on digital media, linked to the exposure of children, the exposure of parents to their children and the safety perspective, as the representative points out here. I'm glad, like the representative of Awake!, that the Data Protection Agency has been strengthened. I think it's important to strengthen it in the future. From 2017 to 2020, the Data Protection Authority has received a budget increase of 16 million. And now they have 66 million. kr in the budget. It's a good budget. Then I also look at other opportunities to test the data protection challenges in today's digital everyday life through a regulatory sandbox for which the Data Protection Authority will be responsible, so that we can keep up with the changes that are taking place, and have a law that is adapted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1575	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1583	‘Freedom Norway reports that voluntary teams and organisations are concerned about whether local levels have enough economic muscles to cope with the crisis. The requirement for a minimum amount of SEK 25 000 in losses to participate in the arrangement aid scheme leads to many not being able to avail themselves of the only aid scheme available to the volunteer. This applies even though the scheme has now been extended by several types of loss of income. When the Council of State knows the consequences, why is the requirement for a minimum amount of NOK 25 000 maintained?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1590	I have a great deal of understanding that many non-governmental organisations are worried about the economy. I share their concerns and am pleased that the representative addresses this issue and also shares our concerns. The type of compensation mechanism established by the government in a short time represents something completely new. We've been working on bombs to minimize the damage of what's an international disaster. Two months is long for those who are hit, but at the same time short time to find the good solutions that hit the width. The first round of voluntary sector compensation schemes gave us much lessons. In the light of the recordings, we have already announced that several sources of income will be included, that the application period will be extended, and that more money will come into the scheme. This has been explained to the Stortinget through the revised national budget, which was presented on 12 May. In the previous round, organisations had to have NOK 25 000 for the cancellation of ticket receipts and participant fees of two months. In the new proposal, they must have NOK 25 000 in the absence of income from a variety of sources, such as: flea market, kiosk sale, renting. The number of months has also been extended to three months. It is, in fact, a reduction in the bottom line. The sum of these changes we believe and hope will help to ensure the continued activity of the many small layers, which are glued to their communities. The common virtue of society as a whole is also that it is not possible for the government – and I don't think for the Stortinget either – to compensate for the crowns of someone in society, for business or for volunteering. But we're doing the best we can to channel the funds where it's needed, and especially where the need is greatest. Organisations that have lost large sums are at risk of having to resign their instructors, trainers, tenants, and there are consequences that may take a long time to get over. There are consequences I want us to be able to avoid, and I am absolutely sure that the representative also agrees. At the same time, I know – and I have also heard it from organisations such as Freedom Norway – that this is still not enough. For small layers, DKK 25 000 may be the entire budget of the harvest. It's important for me to listen to those who wear the shoes, I will continue to do that. Of course, we should continue to consider the necessary adjustments in order to achieve the main objective, which is to reach the width, so that we can continue to have a strong, independent and diverse voluntary sector in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1605	Thanks for the answer. I am recording that it is not yet a matter of setting down the minimum requirement. It actually means, as the Council of State was about, that many small and smaller teams and associations are not getting any help from the government right now. For it is intended that voluntary activities and other non-taxable non-profit-making activities may not participate either in the cash support scheme or in the loan guarantee scheme. At the top of the extremely poor treatment of volunteering, I would say, the event support scheme – the only scheme in which they can participate – is a framework-driven and not a rule-based system for business. This means that part of the people who are applying for money in that scheme cannot get the money they want or think they are entitled to, because they have to share with others. This is unreasonable. Will the Council therefore consider raising the pot for the event support, or turning it into a regulated scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1616	We first created a system that was in place for the first period, and we have proposed through the revised national budget to extend until 15 June. We have made the necessary adjustments to that arrangement. The first was the loss of ticket revenue, and it was a complicated situation for many — both for the grassroots and for volunteering. That is why we have included several sources of income that have fallen away, as I explained, among other things. kiosk sales, flea market, etc. We've also extended the time period you can apply for, so that it has retroactive effect. In addition, we have adjusted the frame, so that more funds have been put into this. We need to remember that this is based on the best estimates available, and if it turns out that the estimates are not accurate, we will have to re-evaluate and get back to the Storting in an appropriate way — if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1623	I think that is absolutely necessary. Many voluntary teams and organisations now have major liquidity problems. That's because they don't get any, or very small, compensation. They include: large costs of operating and financing own sports facilities, renting premises or other operating costs that need to be paid, even if they are not currently active. Both volunteering and sport believe that much of this would have been solved for their sector if they had received their own liquidity package in grassroots aid – actually the same sum that the curtailment has been on in the VAT compensation scheme in 2018 and 2019. That scheme is in place, it will be a very effective way to effect payments, and it will take a broad view, because it will take a proportionate view of economic activity. A few weeks ago, I asked the Minister here in the Questionnaire if he would listen to the volunteer and provide the additional liquidity support through VAT compensation for 2018 and 2019. He then said he would look into the matter. Has he looked into the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1632	Yes, the VAT compensation scheme has been provided several times by the government. We have done so in previous budgets. It's also one of the measures that we're of course going to consider. We have now announced through the revised national budget that we will return to Stortinget with a new proposition by the end of May. There we will take a decision on, among other things. the extension of the compensation arrangements currently in force and any adjustments thereto. We will, of course, address new devices – where appropriate – in connection with that proposition. In terms of the actual loss of income suffered by the various people, we have outlined 70 pst. coverage through the revised national budget. It's, as I said, based on estimates and the overall framework that's been set. Of course, if adjustments are found to be necessary in this respect, it will also be considered. But VAT compensation is one of the proposals, there are several other proposals, and we make continuous assessments of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1639	Question 15 has been answered in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1647	As the Council of State comes from my home municipality, Orkland, this is going to be between us two orclings. Congratulations, too, on being a new Council of State. ‘Today it is approx. 390 000 workers registered in full or in part without work, and that is approx. 4 200 apprentices who are at risk of not completing their vocational training by letter of formal qualifications or by letters of formal qualifications. The working party is very concerned about apprentices who are now on leave and who do not know if they will be able to complete their education. Even from the fall, new students will need apprenticeships. Why has the Council of State not presented any concrete changes to ensure that apprentices flow in the training cycle of the revised National Budget for the Stortinge pursuant to Decision No Stortinge? 460?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1656	I thank the integration for the question. I'm happy to get that question, because I share the concern, especially for all the apprentices who are now affected by the leave. There are very many apprentices who are concerned about their future. Therefore, the government is working to find practical solutions so that as far as possible its training can be successfully completed and completed. There is no doubt that Norway needs more skilled workers and it is important to ensure that those already undergoing vocational training are able to complete their training. Then I also want to say, luckily, there are some points of light in the situation we're in. Figures from Education Directorate 13 May show that we have a decline of 777 outpatient apprentices since the measurement in week 18. The number of outsourced apprentices is steadily decreasing as we also open up more and more of our working life. At the same time, we see that there are some sectors, such as agriculture. travel life, hotels and restaurants, which are particularly vulnerable and have the highest rates of trainees on leave. As the government explains in Prop. 117 S, our goal is for nine out of ten students to complete secondary education. We therefore consider measures to prevent increased withdrawals from secondary education, and we will support county municipalities, so that more people complete without undue delay. It may also be appropriate to focus action on the subject of education and training programmes which are particularly hard hit by the crisis. I will consider both actions aimed at apprentices who are or are at risk of being outsourced or losing their place of learning, and actions aimed at offering extended Vg3 in school from the autumn of 2020. The government will return to other measures for this group. I would like to remind you that the government has already transferred additional funds to the county council, among others. to increase their capacity to offer relevant Vg3 offers. This may mean that county municipalities set up more schools, but it may also mean that they work together on, for example: borrowing production equipment, rentals, instructors, etc. from establishments and enterprises to ensure relevance and quality of training. This has good traditions for the county councils to solve. I would also like to remind you that we have already carried out some temporary derogations from the legislation and regulations that make it easier to take professional and fly tests in the spring of 2020. Provisional extensions to the Training Act have been made to remedy the apprenticeship situation by facilitating access to supplementary solutions for professionals and apprentices. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to commend the social partners for constructive proposals and good cooperation. Together, we will ensure good quality vocational training, which will continue to be attractive educational choices for young people. In recent years, vocational training has been in a good flow of increased recruitment and implementation, and we need to make sure that this does not turn around now, because we need skilled skilled workers even after this crisis. In addition to the measures I have now mentioned, the government will return to further action for this group in the Phase 3 actions, which is part of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1677	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. It's right, as the Council of State says, that the report on May 13th, week 20, shows a slight decrease in the number of outpatient apprentices. However, as the Council of State mentions, in particular in the field of educational programmes for the food and restaurant sector, design and crafts and services and transport, there is still a very critical situation for all the apprentices who are unsolicited. 50 pst. Of all those who are on leave in the restaurant and food sector today, there is still no job, and there is 35 pst. within design and crafts. We saw in the Avisa Süd-Trøndelag today that there was a very weak search for these subjects at Meldal secondary school for the 2020/2021 school year. Can the Council of State say what the government intends to do with measures and offers in this area? These are students who are already in an apprenticeship, and students who are now applying, but who may not get an offer because of weak applicants in these subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1682	In those industries that face specific challenges, inter alia: because they have had to shut down, there is no doubt that the situation is going to be challenging for quite a long time to come. The main government can do is take the general measures to speed up the Norwegian economy again, and to ensure that we secure jobs and Norwegian businesses. We need to ensure that it is both attractive and interesting for these companies to accept apprentices also in a crisis situation, so we will look at actions aimed at it. I think everyone knows that options with Vg3 in school for most people are a worse option than having a place to study. It is true that everyone is entitled to a Vg3 offer at school if they do not have apprenticeship space. It is important that we ensure that these offers now receive high quality, that they are perceived as practical, and that there is close cooperation with the working life of the offers now to be given to Vg3 in school, which a little more students than usual need to receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1689	I think offering students alternative education in school is not good enough, because many of these students are now finished with two years of secondary school and are in the last period of completing vocational education. In particular, the industry is asking that apprentices have good professional skills that are adapted to today's and tomorrow's business. The fact that county councils are to organise an extended offer per area, in the middle of the infection protection situation that we are in, will be very difficult. How are we going to make good use of these apprentices, so that companies and municipalities can take in more apprentices and they can complete their vocational training? It has to be done quite quickly and during the summer. The question is, what will the Council of State do? Is it possible to guarantee that the apprentices are properly and professionally completed and that they are able to do so within a reasonable time?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1694	In order to ensure that all those in vocational education and training receive their education and training, there are a number of measures we need to implement. We have clearly shown that we prioritise this particular group of students through the fact that they were the first, together with the smallest students, who got back to school – those who need a workshop and who need more practical training. We'll make a few minor changes in the way you can do the exams and the flips, which will make it work, for example. is possible for apprentices to complete a professional test before they have completed their full apprenticeship if they are competent to do so. This kind of action will also help to relieve, so that not those who are apprentices now and who are actually finishing their apprenticeship will be standing in the way of those who are coming in from the harvest and who are ready for a new apprenticeship. As I said in my first post, I share the concern of the representative Asphjell for the apprentices. I can promise him this is a priority area for the government. We have come up with a number of measures, and we will come up with several measures that will remedy this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1701	Then the ordinary question mark is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-20.ana.ud79e1715	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
