ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e37	The representative Svein Roald Hansen, who has our permit, has taken the seat again. The representative of Erlend Wiborg will put forward a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e47	It is a pleasure to make a constitutional proposal on behalf of myself for the amendment of Section 91, the consent of the Stortingen to appoint judges to the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e52	The representative, Roy Steffensen, will put forward a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e57	I would like to make a constitutional proposal on the amendment to Section 59, to change the barrier limit from 4 to 5 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e62	I have the pleasure of promoting a constitution proposal from Solfrid Lerbreck, Terje Breivik, Solveig Schytz and myself to complete the distinction between the state and the Norwegian Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e67	The Constitutional proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The representative, Maria Aasen-Svensrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e74	On behalf of the representatives of Arild Grande, Lene Vågslid and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative on cleaning and cleaning in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e79	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e85	On behalf of the representatives Karin Andersen, Petter Eide, Mona Fagerås, Nicholas Wilkinson, Katrine Boel Gregussen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to extend the Child Care Certificate. In addition, on behalf of the representatives of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Lars Haltbrecken, Mona Fagerås, Solfrid Lerbreck, Katrine Boel Gregussen and myself have the pleasure of presenting a proposal for a Norwegian public investigation into sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e92	The representative, Mr Hemdal, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e97	On behalf of Himanshu Gulati, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Solveig Horne, Per-Willy Amundsen, Jon Engen-Helgheim and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on children who are being held against their will abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e102	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e107	On behalf of the great-grandfathers Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Jon Engen-Helgheim and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to ban sibling childhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e112	The proposal will be managed in accordance with the rules of procedure. Before the matters in the meeting card are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting is continuing beyond noon if necessary. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1-3 being processed below one.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e158	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: Labour Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Centre Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Environment Party Green 5 minutes, Red 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. In addition, up to three replies from the main speakers of the parties and six replies from members of the government will be given, and those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time will be given a speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e165	I would first like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the work on this Community proposal. The municipal bill provides important guidance for the government budget for the autumn and provides the municipalities and county councils with the necessary signals on the framework within which they can use their own budgets in the future. The main prerequisite for the municipal economy next year is that municipalities and county municipalities this year are compensated for lost income and increased expenditure related to the corona situation. This year’s compensation and any cyclical measures are dealt with in the revised budget and package of measures and are not part of the municipal budget for the next year as such, in addition to the fact that what is happening this year is a crucial prerequisite for next year’s municipal budgets. There is considerable uncertainty about the economic impact of the covid-19 virus on the municipal sector in both 2020 and 2021. It is understandable that not all figures are clear yet, but the Centre Party, the Workers’ Party and the SV in the Committee have considered that there must be partial compensation to both municipalities and county councils in connection with the treatment of the revised national budget 2020, as well as a significant assurance that all expenditure will be compensated. Furthermore, a new case has to be brought to the Stortinget at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2021, a second round in the new age of the figures that are not ready in October, and finally a final compensation in the revised national budget for 2021. At the same time, let me stress that it is absolutely essential that Kommune-Norge now receives a clear assurance that they will receive 100 pst. the coverage of lost revenue and increased expenditure relating to the corona. It is essential to ensure that municipalities do not pull the emergency brake now, stop planned projects or cutters in the service offer. An overall committee has noted the flexibility and the capacity of employees in Norwegian municipalities to act in dealing with the coronary situation, and we are impressed by how the challenges have been addressed. A great thank you to all who have been on in Kommune-Norway now in connection with the Korona situation. In the municipal bill of 2021, the government signals that it is adding up to a real growth in free income for the municipal sector of between 2 billion. kr and 2,4 brd. NOK 2021. The government proposes that the growth of income according to usual practice should be counted from the estimated income level in 2020 in the revised national budget, but shall also be corrected for the effects of the outbreak. What deviates from normal practice is that the government assumes that a special supplement is to be given this year to ensure that the local government sector is compensated for the real tax failure. It is therefore a real tax failure compared to what was laid down in the ageing budget. The Government indicates that the intention is to avoid a reduction in the starting point for the calculation of real growth in free income for 2021 due to something that is assumed to be a temporary effect on the income level in 2020. This Appendix is estimated to be 1875 million. kr by the Ministry of Finance on 2 June 2020. In practice, this means that the government assumes that, in 2021, the local government sector will be allocated just under 1.9 billion. kr in addition to the signaled crop of 2 to 2,4 billion. kr. The central party believes that the government's financial arrangements for the municipal sector for the next year are again too poor, regardless of the estimates related to covid-19. A key indicator for a good municipal economy is net operating surplus. There are considerable differences between municipalities, but in 2019 municipalities are grouped under the recommendations of the Technical Calculation Committee for Municipal Economics. Extraordinary tax revenue in addition to the assumptions in government budgets, including: as a result of tax adjustments and lower pension and demographic costs, the main reason is that economic performance has not been so bad in recent years. It's not because of the government's arrangement that the results in the sector are mountainous, it's despite that. 44 pst. of the municipalities had a negative operating result in 2019. It's dramatic. The debt growth has increased from an average of 21 pst. revenue from the period 2002-2008 to 48 pst. in 2019. I'm very concerned about this development, it obviously cannot continue. The approach shows that the parties have common objectives for the local government sector in many areas, but there are clear differences that show that it matters who governs the country. This applies both to the financial framework within which the local government sector must work and to the governance framework between the State and the local government sector. I will first bring forward some consensus that I am pleased that the committee has agreed on. Firstly, the Top Funding Scheme for Resource-Required Services is a matter of concern to many municipalities. The scheme may be thoroughly distorted for some municipalities with a very large share, so that it must be cut into services and introduced property taxes in order to finance the proportion of resources needed. We can't have it that way. I am therefore pleased that the Committee now wants the scheme to ensure that the recipients of the service are provided a good service regardless of where they live, and that it is unfortunate that the financial burden in some municipalities has become so great that it affects the service provision to other citizens. The Committee has also called for changes to the system for managing municipalities with particularly high expenditure for this purpose. There's something the Center Party has been working for a long time to get in place. I therefore hope that the parties will vote in favour of the proposal of the Centre Party, which takes care of those municipalities that have enormous real estate costs distributed per capita. Volunteers are another theme that we in the Center Party have been very concerned about. In the past, the government has announced that the financial instrument will be amended, which would mean that voluntary centres in municipalities with less than about approx. 12 000 inhabitants would get less money to go with to the operation, while the large municipalities would get more. However, the government has now postponed the change in funding. The Government Parties, with the Support Party The Advance Party, write that they are satisfied that the unintended impact of the inclusion of the grant to volunteer centres is corrected in this proposition. Furthermore, the same parties are asked by the government to take care of this in the future. We are very pleased about that. In other areas, there are major differences between the parties, and I expect the other parties themselves to explain their views and suggestions in the vote. The centre party will build society from below and will therefore spread power, residence, jobs, capital and competences. We want people to have the opportunity to live where they want to. We want a reform of trust with authority and responsibility close to people and listening to teachers, health professionals and policemen. They know best how to solve the problems locally. By shifting the public sector towards more trust-based governance, we get better solutions, we decentralise tasks, and simplify and streamline bureaucracy. The development of the municipal sector is important in order to maintain scattered housing and to vary business life across the country. Unfortunately, governments do not share these objectives and their policies lead to wrong developments. The central party proposes to increase the municipal sector's framework by 4 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. Within this increase, we want to find money for a lift that gives the counties the opportunity to take back some of the maintenance run on the county roads. In the municipal bill 2021, the government signals that it is adding 2 to 2,4 billion. kr. The Technical Calculation Committee has carried out a calculation showing that the local government sector receives additional expenditure of about 2 billion. kr related to demographic development. So the whole growth is eaten up by the demographic development. Over the last few years, the size and government have given municipalities more tasks and standards, including: maximum number of pupils per teacher, a pedagogical norm for kindergarten, etc. This is not fully funded, and it commits considerable resources, which have to be saved in other areas. Increasing social expenditure is another post the municipalities have experienced has shot in the weather. This is due, inter alia, to: changes in redundancy benefits, many of which are now being transferred to social assistance. The costs are passed on to the municipalities without taking it into account in the state transfers. The reality is that the government requires municipalities to solve more tasks within a reduced framework. The centre party believes it is wrong policy to starve the municipal sector. It simply means poorer services for the inhabitants. When new requirements for municipalities, such as manning and pedagogical standards, are to be met within the existing framework, other sectors are affected. Since the care sector is the largest in municipalities, it is the elderly who have to pay the bill through a lower offer. In the autumn of 2017, the size made two clear decisions requiring the government to assume that any municipal mergers should be voluntary. I now expect this to be followed up in the further work. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions that the Central Party is promoting in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e220	The representative has drawn up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e227	Future developments depend on fast and accessible infrastructure for digital communications. The central party often writes that all parts of the country must be guaranteed access to the full-time high-speed broadband, that county municipalities should have the primary responsibility to secure full broadband coverage and that the country should pay. How will this be consistent with the future 5G bet, which we know will be industrially-initiated? What is the estimate of the Centre Party's State contribution to the counties?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e232	What we know is that broadband coverage is the biggest challenge in District Norway in terms of infrastructure. It is a challenge for business because it prevents many business start-ups. It is a challenge for municipalities that will digitise services and for the state that will digitise services. It's not least a big challenge in this corona era, as we're now going to work from home, all of them, and try to get society to go around. I even have a neighbor at home who's a teacher. The biggest challenge for her was that she could not be a teacher from home – she had to move into the pedestal of her parents-in-law every morning to do her job because there was no digital access to broadband where she lives. So the expansion of broadband is the center party's bet and will be it in the future. There may be new technologies that replace this, but full access, no matter where you live in Norway, will always be the priority of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e241	The center party is talking a lot about centralization. People may have forgotten what it was like when the Senter party was in government, when there was centralized a branch ball every eight days and local hospitals were centralised. So they get away with their rhetoric where they're talking about centralization. But where they control locally, we see a completely different image. In my home country, Vestland, we were at the previous assembly witness that the Senter Party, with the County Spokesman at its head, went in to take from the small children and young bookboats, which have gone for 60 years between islands and small branches and served books and art and culture to these communities. Is this a policy that the Central Party considers to be good, or does one regret that a local stand for a great centralisation from children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e246	This is a policy initiated by the government, and with the Progress Party as a supporting party to the government. It is clear that when the purse is strangled again, the tightening must come somewhere. And if there's someone who's really suffered under this government, with ever tighter frames, it's the county councils. It goes without saying that a county municipality that gets much less to walk with has to tighten up a place, and then has a choice between a bookbox, put down lines and offers in secondary schools, or reduce the collective offer in the county municipality. It is very sad that the Progress Party and the government have not wanted to be with us on the efforts we have made in the county council over the years. We also have a billion more in this year's budget for the county municipalities than the government and the Progress Party have. It is clear that if the budget of the Centre Party – or something near it – had been followed in recent years, the county councils would have been free to operate with these very tragic cuts to which they are forced. We see that in county municipalities all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e253	If the local economy is to reach out to all the good things that the Central Party and SV agree on, then probably the central party's bets are also a little too low, but leave it at this point. I want to challenge the centre party on two proposals we have in this setting, and I am very surprised that the centre party is not on. One is to ensure a fixed basic funding for the coordination function for decentralised higher education. We know that is absolutely necessary for, among other things, that the community sector should be able to have staff around it and that people throughout Norway should be able to take training. The study centres do not have such funding today, and they must receive it. The second is that we want incentives for several municipal services by model from Stageshälla, which is just the trust reform that the representative spent quite a lot of time in his post, where one without bureaucracy has low thresholds for people, and they actually get help without spending a lot of time on bureaucracy. What is the reason why the Central Party does not support these two proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e264	I think the centre party and SV agree very much on the strengthening of the municipal sector. And with regard to trust reform, at least we fully agree that unbureaucratic, simple low-threshold offers are something that we must give priority to in the future. When we have chosen not to support that proposal in the vote, it is simply based on – the representative is from Hedmark and probably knows the ‘Stand model’ very well – that we do not have sufficient competence on what that model really is. But I have to say that low-threshold offers, no matter what area it is, there is enough for one to get more for the money. And, of course, we agree that less bureaucracy must be an objective throughout the municipal sector and, moreover, throughout the state sector as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e273	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e279	When we presented the agreement on the municipal proposition between the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, André N. Skelstad from the Left said that a good municipal proposition had now been even better. I have to agree completely with the Left in that very thing. The party of progress has the nerve to make policy better, and I want to use my post to focus on what the Progress Party has achieved from improvements, and then I expect that the government party will talk about all the good things that were in the proposition, and that the opposition closest to the Autopilot will say that there is too little money for everything, and if we had only a little more billions, all the problems had been solved. The progress of the current footprint in this setting goes on a lot, including on the social profile. After the election last year, I visited the president's neighbour's municipality, Fitjar, where the Progress Party has received the vice-president, Sigurd André Marås. As the good FrP he is, with solid commitment to the weakest in society, he was very busy with resource-requiring services. That's what he had on his heart when he was going to present the municipalities to us after the election. Fitjar is a municipality with 3,200 inhabitants and has eight young users who need good services from the municipality. The property they experience is mentioned in the municipal budget. The same thing tells our group leader in Lødingen, Dagfinn Olsen, and the councillor in the municipality of Moscow to the committee in the hearing. I am therefore pleased that the Progress Party agreed to improve this arrangement, so that even more people can benefit from a good life of their municipality. The volunteers have been throwing a ball for a few years. We've seen that the municipalities haven't prioritised these strongly enough, and it's created insecurity. The formidable efforts made by these centres should be spent on voluntary efforts and not on lobbying against us in this room. Therefore, we now decide that these funds should be recovered again. Here the Christian People's Party Torild Brandsdal will surely deepen more, the one who got this into the dialogue between us four parties. We see in the setting that we have nevertheless formulated a little different in what we write in our remarks and the proposal we agree with. Therefore, we cast doubt by making a proposal that underlines what is stated in the comment: that these funds should be recovered, not allowed under Table C, so that the municipalities are not free to dispose of them. The intention of these four parties is that these funds should be brought to the volunteer centres and not be free funds for the municipalities. The progress party is also busy with care for the elderly. The revised national budget, which we will deal with later this week, showed clear evidence of 400 million. kr extra to the elderly. What has disappointed us is that the government has postponed the extension to the state-funded orphanage trial. I notice that the red-green ones in this room are opposed to the entire project and go in to wind it up, even though many red-green politicians tell us that they want these money for the elderly out in the municipalities, such as the city. in my municipality of residence, Austevoll, where the Workers' Party's vice-presidents are asking for this state money, so that she can re-communalise the care of the elderly in that municipality. The regional profile has been improved with the cooperation of the Progress Party with the Government Party in this proposition. The holiday price uprising, for which I have our case spokespersons, and which we are also dealing with now, is a problem that many along the coast have been concerned about this winter. We recorded in our hearing that the county has different starting points and different stories to tell. Somebody's been renewing the ferry with expensive elf ferries on demand from the state, someone's on the threshold to do so, someone's turned up prices and down-priority ferries and teasing on people and businesses. And at the top of this, most states have switched to AutoPASS systems, so that passengers travel free and business and commuters get a greater share of the bill. Common to all is that those who feel at high ferry prices don't care about where the responsibility lies. They feel that this is a disability. Therefore, we are very clear that it was not smart for the red-greens to transfer this responsibility to the county councils in 2010. We see that ten years with that policy has created a rebellion along the coast that I understand very well. Therefore, the Progress Party would ensure lower ferry prices – not through the free revenues of the county councils, which can prioritize other things before that. We didn't get much in this round, but we will of course come back to trying to ensure that the ferry prices go down, if the county councils continue with the policy that has been called for by others, simply to turn the ferry prices up. Our starting point is that the ferry prices are going to go down, not up. In addition to that, we've had a positive impact on this proposition that we're very pleased with. A replaced some of these ferries with bridges. We took the initiative in 2014 in the Stortinget for a holiday relief scheme. This means that instead of the state subsidizing the ferry in all asses and people paying the ferry ticket in all asses, we can rather pay for a bridge for 45 years and people pay for a few years for this bridge and then travel for free. I think it's the only thing we've got with us the Christian People's Party that it's not all in the world that's good. When it applies to ferry subsidies, it is actually better to build bridges. It's a good economy to do it. The system needs to be improved, and it needs to be so good that these projects are actually built. There are many who work for such projects that tell us that they have challenges with high interest rates at the early stages of the period. So we're very happy that we're now fixing it by making sure that the government comes up with a solution to the house that ensures that interest rates don't get too hard at the beginning of the projects. Then the department has been strictly connected, as the president knows well in our neighbourhood – in Women's Heaths, for example. There is a ferry that runs between four ferries, and one that should replace the bridge between only three ones. Then the department has said that they should only get small money. This, of course, has created great protests from our local politicians. Ove Lemicka, our group leader in the Kvinnherad municipality, has taken it up, and plan selection leader in Eyegarden, Svein Otto Jacobsen, who fights for Lerøy-Bjelkarøy, has taken it up. I am very pleased that almost one joint committee is in favour of a proposal that states that both the Fjelberg Association and the Lerøy-Bjelkarøy will get full coverage, so that these islands can become land-based, and that the state is far more inclined than it was before the Progress Party put its stamp on this proposition. So I look forward to being invited to the wedding both on Fjelberg, Lerøy–Bjelkarøy and along the whole coast. This communicative proposition, to which the Progress Party now joins and gets multiples at important points, creates optimism. So a little bit about local economy: here it was most important for the Progress Party to ensure that we have a chance to come back to the fall, when we see how the estimates turn out in real life. It is as difficult to predict the outcome of the municipal economy in 2020 as it is to predict the outcome of the Elite series, which started yesterday. We record that the Ministry of Finance has one estimate, Norway Bank, SSB and KS have other estimates. Therefore, the most important thing for us was to ensure that we now have the possibility to come back to the fall, later in the new era, and to see how the estimates turn out, so that the municipalities can be sure that the Storting will help if the estimates fail. For this reason, it is important to have a frequent dialogue with the government working group in which KS is involved. It is important that the words that the Council of State has said that the municipalities must keep the wheels running, and that they must not take exceptional action in this situation, are followed up by a collapse decision that says the same thing, so that the municipalities can be sure that the Storting wants to compensate for tax losses and permits to provide the necessary additional costs for the pandemic based on the estimates of the health of the economy. We're very happy to get in place. In addition, public transport is specifically mentioned in a separate proposal. Here we know that the county councils must deliver full production in order for people to get to work. If, for reasons of protection of infection, reduced capacity in public transport is required, the revenue from the ticket will not be in line with that expenditure. It is a matter that we mention in particular, and that we will also follow closely and come back to. From next year it will be implemented cut in the property tax, which is very much appreciated by the Progress Party. There is an area we are all about in Norwegian policy, and we think that the tax on ownership should be reduced, that the Stortinget should take decisions that limit the scope of action to the municipalities. We're very pleased that we've got the government party on this, and that they're now agreeing to implement it as a warning, that it's going to happen from next year. The revised national budget states that this will happen. That's great, because the municipalities have plenty of time to set up after the Progress Party gets through and experiences this saying. It's actually more important that all the people who experience unemployment and insecurity get a lower income tax. We are very happy that the property tax goes down from 5 per million to 4 per million next year. Then it's also nice to record that for the first time in history there is a municipality in Norway that has reduced the wealth tax. I would like to congratulate Bø kommune and the Right Spokesman there, who have gone ahead and said that they will compete with other municipalities about who has the lowest wealth tax. And we could read in the finance paper, on the front, that there were already residents who moved to Bø Municipality because they were competitive on framework conditions and attracted activity. So we want municipalities to compete for capital and people to move to them. What Bø has done requires praise from this pulpit, and it demands applause that there is a municipality that really wants to facilitate people's creation of jobs. It's important for us in the Progress Party, and so we're very happy that we have the plus of the municipal economy through that very connection between local value creation and local income. When it comes to what we did with the coastal communities, the government made up to 1 billion. kr this year in the Maritime Fund. The progress party more than double it. We're adding up to 2.25 billion. kr to marine municipalities in the current year's budget. And we're also increasing in the future by getting a share of 40 pst, and not 25 pst, from 2020. It means an incredible amount, and here I want to thank Network fjord and coastal municipalities, which have fought this issue. Since the time I was a spokesperson, we've been fighting the red-green. Then we didn't get a pass, but the next leader, Ruth Eriksen, and the others on the board, have now been passed through this great majority to get coastal municipalities part of the value creation that is being created along the coast to become local incomes. I think that's very smart, because then we get a reason that local politicians are looking at the area of the aquaculture industry. It's important that they set of areas, because it's an industry we're going to live on in the future. We're going to export fish all over the world, and then we need municipalities to make it right. In addition, the tax morale of business will be greatly improved by the fact that income ends up in the municipal register, not just in the Ministry of Finance. So that we've had a positive impact on strengthening this system is a very good district policy and a very important signal that municipalities will receive more income from activity and less transfers from the state. It must be such that in the morning a dictator rises up and thinks: How am I going to create more activity in my municipality? – more than thinking: how do I get more money from my country? If we have several schemes designed to create income for the municipalities, we get forward-looking municipalities and forward-looking spokesmen and advisers to facilitate business more than they just travel to Oslo and ask for more transfers. This connection is very important for the Progress Party, and we are very pleased that a number of municipalities on the coast are now stating that they will receive solid income from the aquaculture industry. Finally, this is a special spring for all of us, for the municipalities in particular. The municipalities stand in the front line and have handled the covid-19 situation in a very good way. I see there are municipal leaders who have taken the lead and take initiatives for good action. And the municipalities have both handled information for their inhabitants and they have been a service provider in particularly demanding times. The school sector and the kindergarten sector have had to change rapidly — moving to online education and the handling of infectious diseases. We have a health care system that has many heroes, who have been on extraordinary terms. So I want to thank Norwegian municipalities and add Norwegian municipalities for the formidable effort they have made for a time. I would also like to thank the municipal leadership, with spokesmen and advisers at the head, who have informed and our good leaders locally, who have done so far that Norway has handled this matter in a unique way. It's because we have strong local democracy that also works in such a situation. That's what I thought we should recognize from this pulpit. Then I will raise the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals on which the Progress Party is involved. I would also like to signal that we are not voting in favour of that proposal in the vote on voluntary centres, because we have a separate proposal, which is more clear, which guarantees that there will be earmarks and not specific distributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e325	Then the representative Helge André Njåstad has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e332	I have listened with great interest to the emphasis of the Advance Party on its excellent efforts in the matter of the municipal proposition. Among other things, the representative spent a lot of time talking about the resource-intensive services scheme, where there has been a significant growth for many years now. There is a great need outside the municipalities, and we have been well aware that it has been demanding for individual municipalities with the reductions that the government has set up over several years – a government that has been led by the Progress Party, with the finance minister at the head. I wonder: Hasn't the Progress Party been aware that this has been a difficult situation? Or is it that you haven't cared, since it's only when you go out of government, you get concerned with the situation and actually take on the signals that the municipalities have been giving up for many years now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e339	It was new to me that the government that we were part of was the lease of the Progress Party. Even if the Progress Party got solid breakthroughs when we put in government, we also get solid breakthroughs when we are now a party on the tip of the Stortinget, which rotates things in our direction. We could well see in the rear mirror, and then I could tell that when we got into government, we reversed a cut from the Stoltenberg government to resource-requiring users. So everyone can go to the history books and see that they've suggested different things. Now we focus on looking forward, and we are very pleased that we have improved the local authorities who feel that this system is going to end badly, like the Moscows, the Lødningen, the Fitjars and other small municipalities that have pointed out that it is very unprofessional. I have not noticed that the Workers' Party proposed something like this when they put in government, but now the Progress Party gets it in place through this municipal proposition. We should be glad about that rather than looking in the rear mirror and pointing out what you haven't done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e346	When the agreement with the government parties was presented, I noticed in particular that the members of the Finance Committee wrote that the change that was now possible for the Maritime Fund ensures predictability and a system over time. The only thing that is at least safe and predictable is that the Progress Party is still a good support party to this government. Furthermore, it is also quite predictable that the Progress Party believes it is that when you get what I perceive is – at least if I have not misunderstood all the calculations – approx. 50 pst. growth in the proposal is therefore not interested in providing even more money to the aquaculture communities just to generate growth, giving room to fill up the municipal food funds and, not least, ensuring important food routes, such as: many of the county councils have used their shares in the payment from the farm fund to. The real question then arises: Is it such that the Progress Party is very pleased with the great dwindling of the coastal communities now getting with the proposal that the Progress Party believes ensures predictable systems over time – that is, that they are moving from the municipalities to give to Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e355	The premise of the Central Party that the municipalities are being reduced is, of course, totally wrong. Norwegian municipalities have never received more income from the aquaculture industry than after the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left form multiples in 2013 in politics. I told my post that I was a spokesperson before I arrived at Stortinget, and I had some meetings with the red-green government about this particular field. I was in the Ministry of Finance and asked for similar solutions that we have now had in place with our plurality. The answer from SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party was no. They said they can get a little bit through the property tax on farms. So there were a few hundred thousand, while for example. My home municipality, Austevoll, now this year gets close to 30 million. kr. It was worth $15 million. kr before the Progress Party negotiated in revised form. The county that I live in has budgeted $2 million. kr. Now they get 40, 50, 60 million. kr from the Maritime Fund. There are formidable revenues, so the Center Party shouldn't be talking about that there's a dwindling and shifting money to Oslo. This is the transfer of money from Oslo to the coast, and that's what we've got. The central party wanted nothing in this field when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e362	I have read the proposals that the Progress Party is now bragging about, what it says, and what it says. It states ‘reassessments’ regarding compensation for the local government sector and ‘providing a loop notification if possible’. In the case of the economic consequences of the coronary apathy, an ‘analysis’ shall be provided. In the case of resource-intensive users, an appropriate way of ‘illuminating and facilitating mechanisms’ shall be found. In the case of the county road network, it shall be ‘assessed to strengthen’. And when it comes to public transport, you have to say how to strengthen county municipalities, not that they need to be strengthened. So here's a lot of vague wording and little money. What is the reason why the Progress Party agrees with such vague wording and does not require firm fish to do so, but simply leaves it to the government to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e369	It's always like when you read things, that if you read things with SV glasses, everything becomes negative and not concrete. So if you read it as we read it, it's a pretty clear expectation that the Storting that granted authority is going to come back to these fields if the forecasts haven't turned on. If the Ministry of Finance has been right in its forecasts, the municipalities do not have to compensate for more than what they really should have seen, but if the analyses and forecasts are wrong, we have to come back with money as a legitimate authority. So that's why we're formulating it this way. I also register that a pulley pulls out the county road network. I only had a quarter post, so I didn't have time to boast that we're coming back to strengthening the county road network. But it is quite right that we also see that some red-green county municipalities do not give a strong enough priority to the county road network, and that we may need to put in place better arrangements and highlight better arrangements for it. That's why we've been introduced to it. Of course, we will follow up on all these formulations in the State budget. But it's the Storting that's running authority, and then the government knows that they're going to have to pay the money, they're going to have to come here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e378	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e383	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, and colleagues of the Committee, for a clean process. This debate is meant to look ahead in time for the municipalities, and I hope that we will, but in the special situation that now prevails, it will also be natural to look at today's economic situation for Kommune-Norway, as it is obvious – at least for most – that the economy of municipalities for 2020 will also have a 2021 impact. KS has, of course, perceived this, as the rapporteurs and city and municipal governments have perceived this, and the reports are ready for us at Stortinget: The Stortinget needs to guarantee the loss of the municipalities' tax revenues and additional costs for the protection of infection and for the operation of public transport. The elected representatives in the municipalities and the counties are clear that they need money on the table, and they need it now. They are rightly concerned about the liquidity and further failure of their revenues beyond the harvest, and the municipalities are obliged to intervene if they see that the financial assumptions fail. It does not help that the government says that it is just driving on, when the same government will not give clear guarantees or money on the table now, which would have given the municipalities a safer basis for going into the autumn and in 2021 on. On the contrary, the government has come up with calculations saying that the municipalities cannot expect more money from the state. The government says in its calculations that saving costs with a lower employer’s fee and the fact that according to the government, the employees are not going to get a penny in salary increases means that the municipalities are actually in favour of 2020. Municipalities have no financial challenges for 2020 and into 2021 as a result of the closure and loss of income, according to the government. These are the government and government parties, so to speak, alone, about meaning. Steel Groette, who is the rapporteur in the municipality of Rälingen, has said the following: I can tell from this that we see a dramatic failure in the tax entrance in May. Only in May is the failure of the Revaluation greater than the government estimates as an annual effect. Furthermore, the rapporteur says that the difference between the government's calculations and the reality we see in ourselves is very great. In general, our picture follows local KS national estimates. If tax receipts and other corona-related consequences for municipalities are not actually secured by the state, we will see very large welfare cuts locally. So the rapporteur in Ås municipality says: Now it is necessary for the government to see Kommune-Norway. We don't want to stop construction projects or cut down on special education, reduce social assistance, close hospitals, remove support for school music crews or cut library offerings, but this is what we as local politicians are doing right now. The rapporteur in Ås says that, but the government parties will not listen to this. So they have a completely different view of the realities out there. First, the government says that compensation for the municipalities is good. But then, suddenly – after both the municipal bill and the proposal for a revised national budget come from the government – they find out that the municipalities in the crisis package 3 are going to get all the money. It is quite modest, but the logic of the government is difficult to see, when, with the space of days, they wings from saying that the municipalities have more than enough money, to say yes, but of course in the crisis package they have to get a little. The municipalities deserve better. In such an important case for the country's inhabitants, the government cannot wing. Now we need the security, long-termity and predictability of all the municipalities and counties of the country. The Labour Party, through its proposals in the context of the revised national budget, the crisis package and this municipal initiative, will strengthen and ensure the conditions for municipalities to do their job, a job aimed at providing children and young people with a good kindergarten and a good school, good care for the elderly and good health care, as well as continuing to carry on effectively infectious protection beyond the fall and into 2021, to mention something. If the municipalities have any possibility to carry out the tasks on behalf of their inhabitants, they must have financially safe assumptions. Every local government member I've spoken to, every single rapporteur I've spoken to, says the same thing: Money on the table now and guarantees for the future economy in 2020 is crucial if we are not to see cuts in services and postponements of as well new buildings as rehabilitation of municipal buildings. There is something that will not lead Norway out of the unemployment crisis, but on the contrary will lead to major problems for the construction sector if local authorities start to cut their investments. The operating performance and soundness of the municipalities are not as bright and radiant as the government and government parties claim. We in the Workers' Party see that 212 municipalities have had negative operating results for at least one of the last two years, i.e. over half of the country's municipalities. 55 municipalities have had negative operating performance in both years. 174 municipalities have had a negative operating surplus in the provisional accounts for 2019. It is then approaching a double from the previous year. In addition, we see that the small municipalities have a lower net operating result than the large ones. That is why we propose, inter alia: in the context of the revised national budget, that the government has to compensate the municipal sector for the loss of tax revenue in 2020. We ask that county councils be compensated for the loss of ticket revenue, we ask for compensation for additional expenditure incurred by each municipality, and we also ask – last but not least – for a separate proposition to the Stortinget with adjustments to the revenues of municipalities for 2020, by 1 October 2020. Then the government will have the summer to come up with these proposals. Then there will be a crisis package where we, among other things, also proposes to increase the allocation of so-called pot-ready construction projects in municipalities and counties by 1.5 billion. kr, and a strengthening of the Husbank. In the context of this municipal proposal, the Workers' Party proposes that the State budget for 2021 should increase the income of the municipal sector by 3 billion. kr in addition to the government's proposal in the municipal proposition for 2021. It's important, because it's too weak, the arrangement that the government presents to the municipalities for 2021. Then we're on a number of other proposals – I think it's about. 15 in the number we're in here today. I won't go through all of them, but it's about full coverage of losses, as I mentioned, securing volunteer centres, updating ferry relief schemes, etc. All of this will result in municipalities being given security and security for 2020, and this will lead to a better starting point for municipalities by 2021. But the most important thing about our proposals is that citizens in our municipalities can be assured that our municipalities can provide the services that we depend on in care, school, kindergarten and care for the elderly, and that municipalities can do so with the quality that can be expected and the citizens have a right to. It is only to establish that the arrangement of the government and the government parties, with the support wheel attached to the Progress Party, does not provide the security that the inhabitants should have. They do not provide the security and opportunities for our local and regional elected representatives – not for 2020 and not for 2021. It's serious, it's a blow to welfare development, and it'll obviously go down on those who are already struggling, and who need the community the most. But the government and the Advance Party have their priorities – we notice that. So, among other things, they've found room to cut even more in the property tax, now 1,300 million. kr, to those who already have the most. This happens as the municipalities around the country bleed economically so hard that we really can't find the husband in modern times. There is nothing but a gross misapprehension of the government to increase the cut in property taxes while the country's municipal economy has been in its greatest crisis since 1945. Permitting figures are sky-high, unemployment is record high, and it is completely unintelligible – it is also irresponsible. I don't know what's worse, but together it's going to be bad, and it's going to be extra bad when the government shouts after virtue and common promise, that we have to stand together and jointly take ourselves out of the crisis, while the government and the Progress Party at the same time disparate advantages in the tax system, for the benefit of them most from before. And yes, I can clarify it immediately: On direct questions to the Ministry of Finance about whether a cut in the wealth tax will create more jobs, the Ministry of Finance answers that they are unable to document. I just repeat: the overall arrangement of the Labour Party for municipalities in 2020 and 2021, through crisis packages and in the context of the revised national budget and this municipal proposition, will be a much better medicine than the proposals of the Government and the Advance Party. With that, I am promoting the proposals that the Workers' Party has on its own or in conjunction with the SV in the vote, and I can only end up stating that the Workers' Party will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposals No. One, two, three, five and six in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e427	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e435	The representative Lauvås began to look forward, but that future was no more than that until next year. Then we got a long description of expenses and how bad things are. The representative of Lauvås was a little uncertain about what was worst or bad. The thing is, we know that it's not going to be more money, if we raise the nose tip a little bit and look into the future. The oil age is on the verge, and the demographic development we see is going in the wrong direction. That means we have to think about a future where you can't just add 3 billion. kr, or as the partners of the Workers' Party will, even more billions. You have to find other grips. For the Right, this is about modernisation, efficiency, municipal reform, digitisation. My question is short and good: what is the Workers' Party going to do on the day there's no more money to distribute?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e444	There's more money to distribute. It's more of a question of how to prioritize the money we actually have to distribute. As I was in the post, the representative Thommessen and his government party have now distributed something like 25 billion in the last seven years. kr in the year of tax cuts, most of it for those who have the most from before. So don't tell me there's no money, because there's no money, but that's how you choose to distribute the money – whether it's going to go to those who already have the most in this community, or whether we're going to distribute that money to strengthen the community. That's a priority. I record that the representative Thommess is well pleased with the bias he stands for. It's really not time to go into it so much more, but I can only confirm that the future lasts longer than the next year. It is also the concern of the Workers' Party when we see what priorities this government has been facing over the last seven years and seems to be in place by 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e451	It is safe to listen that the Labour Party defines the future as long as it is only one year. But they're almost on autopilot when they deal with the municipal proposition. This has been the case for eight years: no matter what the four of us have come with, the Labour Party has thought it was a little too small, and then the final result has been that the seven years we've been behind us, the municipalities have never had the better. In fact, it has also been proven that the local economy under our rule is stronger than he was the eight years of red-green rule. I also record that one on autopilot is leading the rhetoric about those who have most of the time. I think it's a little bit hollow to talk about at the time we're in, where business wears out, where there are people who have put all they have into creating jobs that we now need more. Does the Labour Party not see that they should change the rhetoric slightly toward those who are rich in responsibility, who create jobs and make sure that we get income further? Then you don't just have to have a rhetoric from here about those who have the most of them. It's actually the ones that make sure that we have as many billions as we can dispose of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e458	To take the property tax first: it is possible that the representative of Njåstad did not listen to or have not read the answers that his own Ministry of Finance had to give to Stortinget when we asked about the cuts in the property tax, for which the representative of Njåstad is very much in favour. He is very pleased with all the tax cuts that do not benefit the community for the rest. But in the answer from the Ministry of Finance that cuts in wealth taxes will create more jobs, the Ministry of Finance says that they are unable to document – they are unable to document it, is the answer we get. At that time, the Progress Party also sat with the Minister of Finance in the Department. So that the municipalities have never felt better: yes, there have been one-time incomes on increased taxes, which you have not been able to calculate. I believe that, as the previous rapporteur, the representative, Mr Njåstad, will also understand that once using lotto revenue in permanent operations is a bad idea to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e465	I want to use the opportunity to invite the Workers' Party to join in and vote for a couple of the proposals that are really forward-looking, and that I also encourage the Right to join in and vote for. It is about establishing a system that allows the local and private sectors across the country to have better opportunities to acquire the skills they need, and that people beyond. It is about providing basic funding for the coordination function of decentralised higher education. The Workers' Party and SV have agreed on this before. It doesn't look like the Workers' Party is in on it right now. The second is to look at what I have in the proposal called ‘Standing Aid’, which they do in Fredrikstad now, as they do in Kristiansand, as they do in Oslo, which is about low-threshold offers to people in psychiatry, in health and in other areas, and which makes it possible to give people what they need, with less bureaucracy and at a lower cost. Will the Labour Party be involved in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e472	Yes, the Workers' Party will agree that there will be less bureaucracy, and that we will be able to implement the trust reform that I know the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party are fundamentally in agreement on the need to implement it. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to have a sufficient majority in the Grand Duchy to get it done in a proper way so far. Then we're going to have to hope that we can fix it in about a year's time by getting a new majority that actually takes on serious trust reform and that we have to have less bureaucracy and spend more time out there and really help people instead of doing excessive reporting. There are, among other things: the importance of decentralised education, and it is quite right, as the representative says, that we have largely and fundamentally agreed that it is important to implement it. We had a case here last night in Stortinget about the buildings on Nesna, which illustrates that we, as different parties, have a similar view of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e477	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e482	The Koronacrisa has great consequences for all parts of society, including the municipalities. In the municipalproposition, revised national budgets and different action packages, we provide the basis for taking back the daily life after the closure on 12 March. In the last few months and weeks, the government has introduced financial measures to secure jobs, income for individuals and municipalities’ ability to provide good services. I want to pay tribute to those added to the community sector, who in a demanding situation have contributed to finding practical solutions for the benefit of the inhabitants. I also want to pay tribute to the municipal minister, who was quickly out there and ordered the municipalities to be compensated for extra costs as the Koronakrisa was a fact and Norway was shut down on 12 March. The government and the Stortinget were some about municipal investment before RNB was presented, but it is important to note the government’s action against the local government sector both in the RNB and in Prop. 120 S for 2019-2020, on Norway’s way out of crisis. Overall, the financial situation in the municipal sector is good, with an operating result at the level of the Technical Calculation Selection recommendation in 2019, large disposition funds, a solid buffer and few municipalities in ROBEK. The municipal sector received significant additional income at the end of 2019, which helped to keep its operating surplus up. Municipalities and county councils have also enjoyed solid reserves. For most of them, the economic starting point at the start of 2020 was good. On the part of the local government, there has been a strong growth in short-term debt since 2008. The government changed the regulation with effect from 2017 in order to clarify the responsibility of the local government to assess and assess the risks arising from short-term debt. In the last two years, the proportion of loans granted by the local government in the form of certificates has fallen slightly. After the outbreak of corona, there has been a disturbance in the capital market, and many municipalities finance their investment in the securities market, but have challenges to refinance loans that fall due. The municipal bank's equity is thus increased by 750 million. kr, allowing the Municipal Bank to refinance more of its liabilities. The anti-pollution measures and the fall in oil prices have a major impact on the Norwegian economy and will affect all industries and sectors throughout the country. The municipal sector is also a frame, and they've been transferred 6.5 billion so far. kr. In the revised budget, the government proposes to increase the ownership of the municipal sector by a further 2.1 billion. kr, including an increase in the frame rate of the municipalities of 1.5 billion. kr as compensation for lost ticket revenue in public transport. In the revised budget, the government also follows the Grand Duchy's call to reduce the employer's pay for two months by four percentage points. This means saving for the local government sector for a total of 2.2 billion. kr. In the revised national budget, the government also provides a preliminary assessment of the economic impact of the coronary crisis on the municipal sector. So far, the calculations show that the expected tax revenue has been adjusted down by 5.3 billion. kr for 2020. It is estimated that the user payment to kindergarten, SFO and public transport is reduced by 5.5 billion. in 2020. Direct additional costs of the virus outbreak are estimated to be 3.6 billion. in 2020, covering mainly the costs of increasing capacity and infective equipment in the health and care services. Furthermore, it is estimated that the municipal sector will save 9.1 billion. as a result of lower wage and price increases on goods and services in 2020. But these are obviously very uncertain numbers. We also know that there is a big difference between the municipalities and that KS has other calculations. So it's too early to say what the final consequences for the municipalities are. The government has set up a working group with KS to identify the impact of the coronary crisis on the local economy. Following the RNB negotiations between the Government Party and the Advance Party, the services for the inhabitants were further strengthened by a 400 million vulnerable elderly action package. kr. Adjustment of the arrangements for the income of municipalities from the aquaculture industry was also strengthened to the benefit of municipalities, as indicated by Njåstad. In the very last package of measures by the government, try Prop. 120 S for 2019-2020, which will be discussed in the Financial Committee, the framework for the local government sector is proposed to increase further by 5.7 billion. kr for actions in the local government sector. These are going to add up to 10.8 billion. kr the local government sector has already been granted permission as a result of the coronary crisis. The government here suggests that we use 2.5 billion. kr for the maintenance and rehabilitation of buildings in the municipalities, and the bill is distributed to all municipalities in the country. 2 billion. kr is broken down by number of inhabitants, and SEK 0.5 billion. kr is broken down according to the municipalities’ share of the unemployed. Ten municipalities in Finnmark are getting mobile standby increased, and 600 million. kr is allocated to industrial development in municipalities. Here companies can apply for funds that can bring up the activity and create new jobs across the country after the crisis. Twenty million. kr is used for digitisation of construction and civil engineering matters and 600 mills. kr to county councils in compensation for lost ticket revenue. This comes at the top of the 1.5 billion. kr they have received before. There's another 400 million going on. DKK to municipalities as compensation for expenditure on infectious diseases and SEK 170 million. kr to county councils in compensation for the increase in apprentice contributions. All in all, the government and the majority of the population, with the Progress Party, have strengthened the municipal sector strongly, with approx. 16.5 B.C.E. kr no in ours. In addition to this, the municipal sector has also been further strengthened by approx. 35 B.C.E. kr since 2013. I feel confident that the municipal sector will be followed up by the government further in the current year if necessary. The financial arrangement for 2021, which is the main housing in the municipal bill, is also satisfactory. Regardless of the corona situation, the local government sector will have to anticipate tighter incomes in the coming years. Among other things, lower revenues from the oil sector and additional expenditure linked to demographic developments will affect the income frame of the years to come. Although the budget is tight, the government still prioritises growth in the municipal sector its free revenues in 2021. As the case-leader, it will be added to a growth in the free income of between 2 billion. kr and 2,4 brd. kr. In the period 2013–2019, the average annual growth rate in the municipal sector was the free income per capita of 0.7 pst, compared to 0.6 pst. for the period 2005 to 2013. Thus, the growth of free revenues has been similar both in the period 2005–2013 and from 2013 to 2019. However, with the Government and the Progress Party's plans for 2020 and 2021, we will facilitate the provision of necessary services by the local authorities for the duration of the current situation of the corona, and to enable the local authorities to continue to do so once the situation is normalised. In the negotiations on the 2021 municipalproposition, the Government Party and the Progress Party also noted that the system of top-financing of resource-requiring services in the municipality needs an adjustment to better accommodate the smallest municipalities, which have a large number of users of such services. In RNB, there's an extra 150 million. kr to the ferries, which facilitate environmentally friendly ferry solutions. These are the ones that divide us here in our municipal proposition. We are certain that the permissions of the volunteer centres will be broken. Perhaps most important of all, we can say that the municipal sector should be sure that the government takes responsibility as a result of the covid-19 outbreak. It applies both in the form of economic consequences of infectious disease control measures imposed by state authorities and loss of income from, for example: the characteristics and the fall in tax revenue as a consequence of the outbreak of the virus. We are certain that the government will review the need for compensation to municipalities in the light of new information on both additional expenditure and income losses in the municipal sector and, if necessary, make proposals to the Stortinget. The government will also provide an economic analysis of the overall economic impact of the corona epidemic on the municipal sector. The municipalities can now focus on the services of the inhabitants in good faith that the government will set up for the municipalities in the further work of producing good services for the inhabitants and business, despite the situation we are in. The Labour Party and Lauvås concern about the municipal sector are well cared for, as I see it. Of course, we do not support the two proposals for document 8 which we are dealing with today, on better ferry policies and extra-permits to the local sector. I would recommend the other proposals Right are included in the setting in the municipal proposal, but not proposals for Decision II, because it will not be Right to support. We come instead to support the proposal to which Mr Njåstad referred, proposal No. 24, which is a loose proposal that is being read in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e533	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e538	According to the representative Trellevik, the municipalities have had so many good years to manage themselves. That's why right-wing people are now attacking the public sector. Now it has to be cut and privatized. To the class struggle, the representative Trellevik said: ‘Yes, there will probably be examples of municipalities that have had expenses they will not be covered.’ And he went on to say, ‘What is objectively assessed as corona expenditure will be co-responsibility by the State.’ The municipalities now want a clear guarantee, and the Workers' Party has given them. What are objective corona costs for the Right? Are there any tax revenue actually lost for the municipalities? Answer yes or no. Is there any additional expenditure due to corona? Answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e555	Tax revenue lost: yes. Subsistence costs for municipalities: this must be objectively correct. For this reason, the government has set down a group that, together with KS, will look at what is corona-related expenditure that is relevant to the state to follow up. It will always be the case that municipalities consider things differently, both when it comes to running schools, cleaning and other. Some municipalities I have seen account for all of this as corona expenses, while others take into account the expenses they would actually have had anyway. So my experience is that the bookkeeping of this is different between municipalities. Therefore, it is important for me and for Stortinget to get a good overview of this, and that it will be working on, so that what should be objective and correct criteria for what is real corona expenditure is handled in a good way. The way the government proposes to solve this, I think I'm both trustworthy and a good security for the municipalities both for the current year and not least for the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e565	There is considerable uncertainty in the municipal sector as to whether the government will actually compensate for corona expenditure. Municipalities are pulling the emergency brake, postponing investments and reducing the provision of services. Alvdal Right has even suggested introducing a 10 pst reduction in pay for municipal employees, because they don't believe that there is a coverage of the corona costs from the government. A unanimous financial committee was consulted in the context of the consideration of Action Package 4 in order to: «municipalities and county councils shall be compensated for the effect of tax failure, loss of income, including compensation for parental retirement, and additional costs associated with the coronary apathy». Why are the Right Members of the Municipal and Administrative Committee no longer involved in this? Why does the government go away from this promise when they now vote against the similar proposal that has been promoted here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e577	Similar proposals, says the representative. I do not understand the wording - at least not in the recording of this, in the comments - as equal. That government has been busy, and that has been very important to the Right, is that we should be involved and take responsibility for this. But in our society today, there are a lot of people who have a bit of nerve. There are thousands of unemployed people, there are entrepreneurs who have lost their work of life, and many municipalities have many resources to spend in this great common cause. I understand that the representative, Mr. Greni, wants the municipalities to be compensated for by a crown. It's a solution that the Right is strong against, because it's very hard to find each of these heads, heads for heads. It will be very resource-intensive to test the municipalities whether this is real expenditure, or whether there are any expenses they would have had. So I'm totally opposed to solving this with such a promise. What I am for is the arrangement that the government has, where an objectively looking down and discussing what are the municipalities' Corinthian expenses, and helping to cover the costs to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e584	It probably didn't get much clearer for the local government sector after that reply. The score is: Should a guarantee be provided for corona-related increased expenditure and lost revenue? That's the point. No one has thought that it's about anything other than that. That's the guarantee that's missing. The proposal on which the Right is based is to assess the need for compensation for the local government sector. And you have to, if possible, give a loop message for this. But the municipalities now have these costs. That's when the coronary crisis is -- it's not next year or the year after it again. The representative of Trellevik was the author of the case on the municipal law, which obliges the municipalities to cut their budgets when the revenue fails. Should they disregard that law now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e589	No, of course the municipalities should follow the municipality, and during the last three days of this big session we have allowed quite a few billion dollars for the municipal sector that they had not expected. So there's good reason for the municipalities to sit down and adjust their budgets as they increase the income frame they get, and the change in their expenses they'll get. Some places will have more expenditure, and other places will not have as much expenditure as they have budgeted for. What's going on in this conversation is, of course, that we don't know the tax revenue of our country until the end of the year. Nor do we know the accounts of the municipal sector until the year is over. Therefore, it may be gratifying to have a looping message from the government's downgrading selection, which will be able to look at the overall cost losses and income losses of the local government sector as a result of the coronary crisis, and to give a looping message back to the Stortinget. I think it makes a lot of sense that the Storting is kept orientated, as we're running authority. So one is also able to increase, if it's necessary. The government has also shown that she wants to give the municipalities more money if they need it, even in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e598	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e603	It was supposed to be missing that the government was not going to report this back to Stortinget. That's not what we're talking about right now. What we are talking about is that when there is a crisis in both business and local government, we must guarantee that the municipal sector will not get the losses now. Why is it important now? Well, that's precisely because we need to look ahead, to see that the municipal sector can now be a flood protection against more unemployment and bigger problems in society. If we put the money there, we know that there'll be jobs out of it. We know that there will be jobs in the private sector too, because then municipalities can afford to start maintenance projects. They can afford e.g. to start many of the tasks that they need to do in the future through welfare technologies in the care of the elderly, many of which are involved here. Yeah, we'll look forward, and there's a problem in the future. We can relieve some of it with welfare technology, but it doesn't have any money for the municipalities yet. Should the municipalities be able to think ahead now and do the smart things, so that we get out better? Yeah, that's what SV means. Therefore, we believe that funds for the municipal sector should now be increased – we have proposed 10 billion. kr fast. I heard the representative Trellevik say the government was early out. The government proposed 250 million. kr in discretionary funds. So it was the Storting that forced the next 5 billion. kr that came, and then we got a municipal economy where one thought it was a lot of money to pick up here – and especially if people like others here now talk about being heroes in the coronary crisis, they don't get any pay raise next year. Yes, it was its thanks – it has been calculated that they should not have. If the local government sector is to have a framework to implement a payroll settlement now and say a little thank you to the cleaners, to the teachers, to all the employees in care and to make sure that there are enough people there, they have to have a completely different framework than this government intends to have. There are many who have suffered now during the coronary crisis. I have had contact with very many elderly people, disabled people and relatives, and also with parents with young people who are quite seriously ill and have problems, who have now been waiting. There is a need to strengthen these services in the future, and it is forward-looking, because it will make more people better off and have a better life. It was at the time of the crisis that we saw the shortcomings in the public sector in both emergency plans and capacity in hospitals and care – there was nothing going on. They even shut down children’s health centers, school health services. It's very serious that it's so scarce. The municipal sector has a very important task in everyday life for a lot of people. They also have an incredibly important task of being good business organisers. We have to make sure that they stay in the future. We also need to make sure that the school is getting better in the future, and to make sure that every student comes out of it with strengthened sea life and good knowledge and gets better. It's an investment in the future. That's what SV wants to spend money on. We want to spend money on these schools being universally designed, so that all students can go to their home school, and no one has to be sent elsewhere. There is a great need for increased quality and quantity in care for the elderly, mental health and rehabilitation. Better rehabilitation is a major need for it. A lot of people talk about people going back to work. Yes, they actually have to get an offer for rehabilitation in order to be able to do so. It'll pay off, and SV is willing to bet on it. The municipal sector shall contribute to sustainability objectives both at social and climate mitigation levels. That's very important, that SV will take care of. The community sector also needs to make sure that we do something about the serious reduction in biodiversity that we now have and that threatens our livelihood. Competences are needed in the municipal sector for this purpose, so that municipal politicians can receive sound, up-to-date and professional advice so that they can – and have the opportunity – take on this responsibility. Finally, the system of resource-requiring services needs to be strengthened. It must not only be changed, as many now – thank God – seem to agree, it must also be strengthened. These are vital services for some people, and when the arrangement is as narrow as it is today, it goes beyond service, especially to the elderly. I would like to mention the suggestions SV has in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e626	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposals she made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e633	On 11 March, the WHO declared pandemic. On 12 March, Erna Solberg and the government shut the country down. On 13 March, Erna Solberg and the municipal minister – as the representative rightly mentions – launched 250 million. additional funds for the municipal sector, while saying that there would be more money in the revised national budget and in the other packages when an overview of the situation was obtained. But it was the day after they launched 250 million. kr. I have to say that I get a little association with Marve Flexennes: it's my mayday! It's my mayday! There's a very need to be part of SV. It's almost impressive to hear. It must be frustrating to see Erna Solberg and the rest of the government dealing with this situation in a very, very satisfying way for the whole community. My question is, how in all the world does SV see that municipalities should be compensated for heads objectively for the rest of society?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e642	It is a reality that the Storting has made very big changes in the crisis packages presented by the government, and has strengthened them significantly in terms of both the workers' ability to live on, the business's ability to move on and the income of the municipalities – which in fact the Storting has pushed for adoption. So it is not the government that has put forward these proposals. The government's proposals have been very minimal until now, and not even now does the local government representative from the Right and the government manage to guarantee that the municipal sector will be covered by the extra costs they have incurred and the lost revenue they have had. It is that guarantee – and not how to calculate it – that is important now: that you say you should cover the actual increased costs and actually lost income, otherwise the local government sector does not now have money, and they have to cut. It means more unemployed and even worse care.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e649	The representative's response shows that the government has done everything right when it comes to the guarantee that the government party and the Progress Party are in, and the signals and promises that the government has made. The representative, Andersen, is unable to explain how objectively a municipality can return its crowns in a good way, which means that the municipalities will feel non-discriminatory. I have mentioned in my article earlier today that the municipalities book these corona expenses differently. How in all the world has the representative Andersen intended to ensure that there is an objectively correct and correct system? I want an answer to that. I think it is very relevant when the representative spends so much time on it – write it in the setting and record it both in his post and in the line change. So I want an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e654	That's the whole municipal sector demand. KS and everyone are asking for it – not how to calculate heads for heads today, but how to do this, but how to establish the principle, and how to guarantee it. I see what is in the proposals on which the Right is involved. An assessment and ‘if possible a loop message’ shall be made. Local government representatives, rapporteurs and advisers are now on demand and have to cut budgets when they see that revenue is failing and that expenditure is increasing. This is the municipal law, for which the representative Trellevik was the case rapporteur. They may not live on and budget with a reassessment and a possible loop notification at any time. They are required to cut. Several municipalities now have to quit, they have to cut the supply for the elderly, and they have to stop the maintenance tasks that the private sector is now screaming for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e660	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e665	100 days ago, we took on a problem we didn't know the scope of, the government parties as well as the opposition parties. Fortunately, it became important for everyone to focus on the good measures rather than whipping party politics. The measures had to be taken. At the same time, we soon realized that Kommune-Norway had to stand in extraordinary readiness. It was in the municipalities that the job was really to be done. For the Left and the Government, it was important to put in place measures and insurance that made the situation as manageable for the municipalities as possible. Today, I would like to take the opportunity to thank you for the formidable efforts that have been made in Kommune-Norway. It's cost. Therefore, it was important that the municipal minister early assured that the municipalities would be compensated for covid-19-related expenditure. It was again underlined in the municipal bill, and it is important and necessary for municipalities to feel confident that they will not suffer any loss or have to cut off services as a result of the necessary measures being taken. While the opposition is constantly helping to bring uncertainties and uncertainties about this insurance, I must again just stress that together with the KS, the government working group will work thoroughly to ensure that expenditure directly resulting from the situation will be compensated. It's already been granted almost 13 billion. kr for compensatory measures in the municipalities. In an unreal time, it's extra meaningful to work on what really affects people out there. Community economics and policy priorities may not arouse the great masses, but they still mean a great deal to most people. Therefore, I am pleased that the Progress Party early stated that they wanted to cooperate with the government on the municipal proposition, and I would like to thank for a constructive cooperation with Helge André Njåstad. His contribution and the contribution of the Progress Party made the proposition even clearer on important political priorities, including: linked to holiday prices and holiday-reliefs. Nearly two months before the country closed on 12 March, new counties had taken up the work of joining forces in the new units. From the new year, 19 counties became 11 and the merger demands adrift, enthusiasm and not least a leadership that goes ahead to make the new counties unique and powerful in their own way. I have a great deal of understanding that this work is now waiting. However, for the autumn I hope that the new counties will have sufficient rest to take up and work together in the new units. I also look forward to traveling around and listening to the experiences that have been done so far, while I have already noticed that is a little unfortunate. In recent years, the regional reform has been the fillerist of the opposition and commentators. One day, there's a lack of relocating state tasks; the other day, it's an insane Norway map. In other words, there is no way in which the country has been affected by regional reform. It makes the impression when the head of state in the country's largest state emphasizes that she will work against the organisation of the new county she is set to lead. The left insists that today's 11 regions are better equipped to address tomorrow's challenges than the old 19 were. We believe that the new regions are meeting for an exciting time. The biggest accident for the new states is politicians working internally on sabotage plans against the units they are set to rule. To clear up a misunderstanding, first of all: the local and regional reform was never a reform to move out state jobs. This government did not need any reform to implement it. On the other hand, in the Left, we got this through separate agreements with the government in the last period, when we created 1,200 new state jobs – all with safe distance from Oslo pot. The local and regional reform intended to shift as much power as possible down from state to state and municipalities. To this end, we needed to increase to larger units that were able to take on those tasks, and there has been no lack of tasks: administration of county roads, management of grants for extended broadband, ownership and management responsibilities of fishing port facilities, management of grants for freshness, learning and mastering, and many more, responsibilities towards Siva and Innovation Norway, the development of a regional food programme for agriculture — and some tasks in the new counties have also become there. It is simply deception to claim that the new states have not been given any new tasks. The new counties have been able to accept additional tasks, including: related to higher education, skills enhancement, as the different counties are best aware of their specific needs. The municipal sector has been reinforced by an estimated 25 to 30 billion. kr under this government, and the annual growth of free revenues has also increased under the Solberg Government. I'm adding further growth to the municipal bill, which we're adopting today. These are numbers in which the Left stands well, and which we underline that the government will also follow up on the follow-up of the Municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e694	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e699	It never became the big task transfer to the new county municipalities that we had hoped for. The time following the adoption of the merger has shown us that the government has not been able to fill the regional reform with content and tasks. Several of the tasks to be investigated were to be transferred to the county municipalities, one of which has concluded that no transfer should be made to the county municipalities. The second task assignment has stopped as a result of the County Council not getting the funds needed to solve the problems, and now Young Left goes out into the Evening Post and says that they believe that the regional reform was a failure, and they want to scrape the entire county municipality, a reform for which the Left itself has been involved. My question will then be: What are the ambitions of the Left for the road ahead for the new county municipalities – will there be more new tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e706	The left is concerned with regional reform and should have been given even more tasks. But this is a massive shift of tasks, and it results in more power, not least to the new county municipalities, than it has been in the past. Then the option, which the Workers' Party is obviously calling for, is to scrape the intermediate level. I really hope that doesn't happen, because it will give you a very centralizing effect around the largest cities. But it may sound as if it is the Labour Party's policy, and in that case I would regret it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e711	I would also like to follow up the regional reform, and it cannot really be characterised as anything but a solid stomach. The notified transmission of several of the tasks has now been cancelled, e.g. in the field of culture and child protection. The tasks transferred are not fully financed. The transfer of the fishing ports has been completely blocked because the counties see that they cannot take on the task, because there is not enough money to help finance it. I also record great dissatisfaction within the Left, when the Young Left now wants to wind up the entire county because this reform is a solid stomach patch. Is the representative of Skelstad satisfied with the regional reform so far, and if not, what will he do to fill it with new tasks and content? Now we see that, on the contrary, the states have gained less power, they have received a state order to introduce free school choices. When will the states regain this power?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e718	I heard with interest the representative Mr. Greni read out. You can think of something surprising about parts of this. When most of the county councils now have red-green government and are quite clear that they will not follow up their intentions, it will also make it difficult to get even more tasks, and they even say no to tasks, such as what happened. on culture. This is also quite clear in the largest state in this country, that is, the Gulf, which has said quite openly that what they are going to work for is not the inhabitants, but to scrape the entire county municipality. I find that very regrettable. Otherwise, the Left will continue to work for us to have three levels in this country, with the possibility of doing more tasks, not least health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e723	Several of the ferries have gone ahead and made very important decisions to convert into zero-emission ferries. But it has cost a lot of money for many of them, and they cannot compensate for the extra expenses they have had, either from the government or in the comparisons that have now been made – it is a little more, but not so much. Today, a proposal is being made that, in the context of the budget for 2021, we should amend the financing mechanism so that the state fully takes up the additional costs of climate change in the state of fast boat and ferry traffic, and that the scheme should capture both implemented and forthcoming measures – i.e. that the State ensures that this conversion is progressing. During the hearing in connection with the municipal bill, several of the states said that they did not know if they dared to proceed with this now, because they were not compensated for it. What is the reason why the Left does not want to compensate for this so that it is carried forward now, and that the yard industry is then given new and important jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e728	As the representative of Njåstad referred to earlier, I said that the municipal bill after the negotiations was even better, and not least at this point, where we also get the compensation. The county council was in the forefront when it dealt with the conversion of, among other things. the green solutions, which have become very good. What's at stake here, with the holiday relief system, I think is a very good arrangement, which, of course, must also be followed over time. This also makes several of our ferries now going to be zero emission ferries. There will be a happy development in the future and something I also thought Andersen was very pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e733	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e739	The municipal proposition is the most beautiful adventure of the spring, not Holmenkolstafatten. There's probably something true about it, but people just wanted to know that this is one of the most important things in the whole year, with relevance in the middle of people's everyday lives, because there's a framework for the state's obligations for the most important welfare provider, and that's the municipalities and county municipalities. This is a good thing to say to an old rapporteur who has not forgotten what it is like to wear municipal shoes. Sometimes those shoes were pretty tight, and they were many times under changing regimes. But it challenged creativity and innovation. This spring has been special, even during the treatment of the municipal bill, which is both expected and really closely related to the crisis packages, the coronation merger with municipalities and county municipalities and the revision of the national budget. For the municipal sector, security for corona-related expenditure is important, and there has been a lot of talk in this room today about a guarantee. The government has clearly said that we should base the Ministry of Finance's estimate on developments in the municipal sector, and that is what should be considered the so-called guarantee. And it is quite clear from the government that corona-related expenses should be reimbursed, but they should not be refunded in advance, they should be refunded in retrospect. The Christian People's Party notes that the community structure is tight, but stable. There is still a tight framework for municipalities, and it has been notified for a long time. The action space is tighter in the Norwegian economy, even before the Korona outbreak. We're all aware of that, and it's important to know whether a is in position or in opposition, because it's incredibly easy to meet yourself in the door. I hope for some parties in this room that that door won't be too crowded. The process has been good both in the municipal committee and not least between the four settlement parties. In particular, I would like to highlight the Progress Party, which in this treatment of the municipal proposition has had a completely different focus on the social dimension of the municipalities. An important issue for the Christian People's Party is the volunteers. Already when the government presented the municipal bill, it became clear that the funding was secured for the next year, and now, with the solutions put forward in the hall, this is an earmarked scheme that will continue. Volunteers – what is it? It's readiness, it's volunteer, it's children and young people, it's older, it's social offer, it's glued in everyday life. I would like to stand here and not be earmarked, because I think it has something to do with democracy in the municipalities. But I'd like to label this, because this is important. This connects. In particular, the pandemic situation has demonstrated its importance, for volunteer centres also have an immeasurably important preparedness role, especially in medium-sized and smaller municipalities. In the agreement, we also ask the government to create a mechanism for top-level funding schemes for resource-intensive services that better cater for small municipalities with a large number of users of resource-intensive services. This could be done, for example, by: be highly disabled, victims of traffic, people dependent on expensive care and follow-up. The scheme is very important. Year after year, we have fought in opposition for this, and I'm very happy that we've come a little bit on the way, that we're doing something for the most expensive, and that the smaller municipalities get something back with this. I have to admit that there can be some work left to see how a person distributes costs between the state and the primary municipalities so that those who wear the shoes in this context do not become the ones who suffer. It is not good to know that one is using such services in a municipality with limited resources. Then one can quickly be regarded as a cost item, rather than – as we believe – that each person is a unique resource in itself. I will report that the Christian People's Party does not support the proposal for Decision II, on voluntary centres, but supports the proposal on voluntary centres submitted by Helge André Njåstad, on behalf of the government parties and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e764	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e769	Regional reform has become primarily a structural reform which involves neither significant new tasks nor more power for the county councils. At least we have greater ambitions for the county councils than this. We want to strengthen local democracy by making more decisions close to people. Those who know best about the challenges should take responsibility for their own priorities. Municipalities and county councils should have more room for action on how the tasks are organised and managed. Is it important for the Christian People's Party that decisions are taken close to people, and what are the Christian People's Party's ambitions for the future for the new counties?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e776	I am very pleased with the starting point of the Labour Party in describing what the regional reform should be. That is exactly what I think regional reform should be – a democratisation reform close to people who have real tasks to work with. But I also have to point out that in this room what has emerged from the Workers' Party has been that reversal is bad, failure and disaster, so I really hope that both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party can stand together to make this regional reform the best possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e781	I noticed that the representative Bransdal was very concerned about giving honor to the Progress Party in order to finally have managed to see the need for a social dimension over what was proposed in the municipal proposition. In the past, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have agreed very much that volunteer centres should be secured with funding that also keeps the centres in the small municipalities. I would like to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party for having managed to press the support party to the government, the Advance Party, in place in this area. Since the Christian People's Party was not really allowed to take the recognition itself, I wonder whether the Christian People's Party can use the newly won power over the Advance Party to ensure that this influence is maintained even when it comes to the question of whether to use the income system or not to force aggregation. Can one also use the power to ensure that any municipal mergers during the period are based solely on voluntary activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e788	There were two things here. Thank you for the honor in the case of volunteer centres. Yes, the Christian People's Party has been fighting for many years to get this done, and I'm very happy that one got it this year. I am very concerned about the matter and less concerned about who will take credit for it. But that's important. This is incredibly important. In the case of municipal mergers, the Christian People's Party has said – and it stands firm in this period – that it should be provincially neutral. The income system should not be used to force municipal mergers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e795	As far as care in the municipal sector is concerned, there has been a slight deterioration in the past, and both under the corona and subsequently, it has been quite serious for many — both older people, disabled people, parents with sick children, people in need of rehabilitation, and young people in need of help in connection with care failure. It's pretty serious for a lot of people. The representative has been rapporteur and knows that when revenue fails and expenditure increases, there is a need to revise the budgets. There's a lot of local government in there and they're doing it now. It goes beyond just these things that I mentioned. The representative says that the municipal sector will now be refunded, but this will happen afterwards. How is this going to happen when they have already had to cut the budgets because the money is not there now? The expenditure is now there, the lost revenue is now there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e800	As far as I know, you have a municipal budget for a whole year, and you actually have a portfolio for a whole year to play on in terms of costs. This is combined with the government saying that the corona-related costs should be reimbursed. For me, it is important to say ‘corona-related expenditure’, because if there are some politicians who think that here we can cover the whole spectrum of both old sins and what you would like to have in the municipal sector, it is going to be wrong. It is still well established, and that is what KS has asked for – a guarantee for corona-related expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e805	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e810	I want to start by giving praise to the work of the red-green parties on the communicative proposition. There are many good proposals for consideration today, and Red will support most of them. It seems to be a rather coherent view of the opposition to the economic situation of municipalities, both in the light of the current crisis and more generally, and it can promise good for the years that come after 2021, for the municipalities. But then we also look at the matter that there is a fascinating long way between the government's perception of the efforts of the municipalities, which they stand for, and the realities of the country. It is not new in the year, but the government’s management — or lack of management — of the consequences of the pandemic for municipalities underlines this imbalance. The government boasts of the strong economy in the municipal sector, but the truth is that almost half of our municipalities report negative results in 2019. And we're assuming which municipalities in 2019 did not reach KS' recommended operating result of 1.75 pst., the figure is even higher. In addition, when we know that the estimates of what the crisis will cost the municipal sector, crack into tens of billions of dollars, and that the government believes these losses are to be covered by the forthcoming wage settlement, the municipal scheme in 2021, after Redt's opinion, is a scheme for cut and weakened well-being in our country. The KS is also clear in the criticism of its local authority. Falling results in the municipal sector were a fact before the crisis occurred, and lack of government guarantees increases uncertainty. That was why Red challenged the government earlier in the spring to provide a ROBEK guarantee for 2021. Our proposal was to ensure that no Norwegian municipalities will be placed under state financial management as a result of the accounting deficit that can be related to the coronary apathy. Unfortunately, that proposal was defeated – unfortunately, because we are deeply concerned that the government's paralysis of action will undermine the autonomy of local authorities in the coming years, because, in today's situation, it seems almost impossible for municipalities to adopt budgets on a balance sheet for 2021. Red has established in its revised national budget that a strong first line and local self-government are a prerequisite for both dealing with the crisis we are facing and getting us out of it. Investment in a stronger local economy is a guarantee of local preparedness and value creation, and the investment must be made both in the short and long term. Red will therefore support all the proposals on the table from the opposition which will strengthen the municipal economy in 2021, and will also promote proposals that the framework for the municipal sector should be strengthened by between 10 and 12 billion. kr to next year. So we know that property tax is the only source of local government regulation of its own income. Unfortunately, the government has restricted the action rooms of the municipalities in this area. In the last month, we have seen how the corona measures affect different municipalities, both as a result of geography and demography. The cabin municipalities were early in expressing concerns about the vulnerabilities of their welfare services. We in Red will expand local self-government, not restrict it. Therefore, we propose to get a case to the Stortinget to make the property tax more flexible in terms of leisure homes. Thus, municipalities with a high number of leisure properties can better adapt their welfare offer to local conditions. In summary, Red is concerned – because if the government does not take reality out into the municipalities, this crisis will help to reduce municipal welfare and our preparedness further. Our wish is that we use the crisis to the very opposite, namely to strengthen the community through a more democratic and also more economically robust municipal sector, with more and safer jobs, with good preparedness and with a high level of public services. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e827	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e835	I notice that the representative of Moxnes says that if there is a new number in 2021, it will be good for the municipality sector. Then I recommend Moxnes to study what he hopes will be a multiple, and then they will be put in government. Then there were far more ROBEK municipalities, and the municipal economy was much tighter than he has been in the last seven years. So I don't think the municipalities should trust that one in position delivers something other than one in position last time. The reason why I'm taking a line is the proposal that Red put forward now, where one is actually putting up a system where municipal politicians can send tax credits to people who don't have democratic rights in elections in those municipalities. In reality, a system is set up to exempt own citizens, who have rights to vote in municipal elections, to property taxes and to send the entire bill to people who have a cabin or a secondary dwelling in the municipality. Is it such a view of democracy in Red that one should equip the Municipality of Norway with the possibility of sending the entire bill to people who do not have the right to vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e842	Let me first say that I fully agree with the criticism of the period of the red-green government. One important difference is that in 2021 Red will hopefully cross the barrier and become absolutely crucial for a new majority, and then we will ensure that a new majority pursues a different policy than we had with a red-green majority government, which in many respects, in which the representative Njåstad is quite right, led a bad policy, at least in the case of the local economy. So I think we'll clean that up from 2021. As far as tax policy is concerned, our proposal is to allow municipalities to have a lower rate of property tax for primary dwellings than for secondary and recreational dwellings. It is a proposal that can protect people's primary residence to a greater extent and then tax something more fairly on what are secondary and leisure homes. Those who have a cabin in a municipality are also sometimes dependent on the welfare offer in the municipality in which they are based, and should also contribute to the community, by paying property taxes if the municipality decides to do so, democratically.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e849	Now Moxnes surrounded to answer my question about democracy. I'm recording that one in the Red Program is busy that there should be popular government and democracy. This proposal is quite the opposite. Here one says that one should get an invoice from the municipality to pay for one having a cabin there, but one has no democratic rights to put together the local government in such a way as to wish. Should we really take on such a government as Red describe that one should be able to send a large tax bill to people who do not have the right to vote to influence the local government that sends the bill? In any case, it is bad news for many people who have cabins in municipalities where they have no influence on what they have to pay for housing, at a coercion tax – perhaps because the municipalities do not streamline or take advantage of the possibilities they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e854	We are not to introduce voting rights into two different municipalities for the inhabitants. It would be a strange principle, we believe. There is no mistake that a democratically elected local government chooses to say that they want to tax primary residences in the municipality somewhat lower and have a slightly higher tax on leisure homes, to ensure that residents of the municipality receive valuable welfare services, to avoid cutting schools or kindergartens and to ensure the well-being of the inhabitants. As far as coercion is concerned, I would like to say that the Progress Party should go a little bit slower in the doors, because they have therefore been in favour of reforms which have resulted in the coercion of both municipalities and counties against the wishes of the inhabitants locally, both in the counties and in the municipalities. So if the concern here is local democracy, you might have to take a look in the mirror before you go to Red, as Njåstad does here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e861	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e866	The municipalities have made a formidable effort to cope with the coronary crisis. They have been at the forefront of protecting the virus and combating it, and they have provided all the services we expect every day from the municipality we live in – school, kindergarten, care services, public transport and many other services. The Committee is in favour of the flexibility and the capacity of employees in municipalities to act through the coronary crisis and is impressed by how the challenges have been addressed. It's a honeymoon to which it's easy to join. The government has been quite clear from the first day that we are going to stand up for the municipalities. Together with Stortinget, we received considerable funds for the municipalities before Easter. When we add to the already adopted appropriations for the municipal sector and the government's proposals in the revised budget and the Phase 3 proposal, the increased appropriations for the municipal sector amount to a total of 16.5 billion. kr. In addition, new economic estimates show that wage and price growth is likely to be lower in 2020 than estimated in the State budget. It will provide the local government with an increased space for action of about 9.1 billion. kr, of course, and the government proposes that the local government sector retain the entire increased space for action. So the sum of new estimates and increased appropriations is going to be closer to 26 billion. kr in the current year, well within the framework of the KS estimate for the impact of the local economy as a result of the Korona. The representative Andersen called this minimal. I believe this is a sign that SV has lost ground in questions about local economy. 26 B.C.E. kr is not minimal, it is significant. Let me make it clear. The extra appropriations allocated to the local government sector are overall a good contribution to compensating for increased expenditure and reduced revenue and to getting the wheels moving after the crisis. At the same time, we see that the situation can change. We will not get a final overview of the tax intake in 2020 until the beginning of next year. We don't know how much pay will be until after the salary is settled for the autumn. And let me add, also to the representative Andersen, that salary growth is a professional estimate and not an expression of a political wish, as she suggested in her reply earlier today. We don't know how long we have to live with extraordinary measures to limit infection, or what effect these measures will have on economic activity over time. The government will therefore closely monitor developments in the future and have good dialogue with the local government sector. We have also set up a working group together with the KS to identify the economic consequences of the virus outbreak. The working group shall submit a final report by 1 April 2021, but may also issue interim reports in the course of the process, so that the government can assess on an ongoing basis the need for new measures. In the government budget for the autumn, the government will provide revised estimates of municipal tax revenue and wage and price growth in 2020. The new ageing of the State budget in 2020 will therefore constitute a natural milestone for the assessment of additional expenditure, loss of income and any need for adjustments in the allocations of the local government sector. Following the final report of the working group on 1 April, I will follow it up and come back to the revised budget for 2021 with an analysis of the overall financial impact of the coronary crisis on the municipal sector in 2020. The municipal sector has been reinforced by an estimated 35 billion. kr under this government, before the extraordinary measures I have now talked about. We have enabled municipalities to invest in kindergarten, school and care for the elderly. In the future, we know that the economic space will be smaller. In 2021, however, the government will prioritise real growth in the free income of the municipal sector between 2 billion. kr and 2,4 brd. kr. Of these, we suggest that between 1.6 billion. kr and 2 br. kr shall go to the municipalities and SEK 0,4 billion. kr to counties. This will give the local government some room for action, even when we take into account the fact that the sector is facing increased expenditure related to demographic development. The Technical Calculation Committee has estimated that increased demographic expenditure to be covered by free income amounts to approximately 1,6 billion. kr. The government's plans for 2020 and 2021 thus facilitate the continued provision of good services by the local government to citizens both during and after the Corona crisis. The representative of Lauvås referred to the municipalities of Ås and Rälingen, which he said now had to cut into services as a result of a lack of compensation from the government. I checked up Å's municipality while I was sitting here, and they added up to increase their service level by 26.4 million. kr in the current year and treat it today. They had the right challenges economically long before this crisis and set up an ad hoc committee to address challenges as a result of having too high levels of investment and lower population growth than foreseen. The bill also deals with its revised budget today, and it is not added to the provision of services in that municipality either. So I ask the representative Lauvås to have a slightly higher level of precision in the continuation. All of these examples that come, I follow up. Tromsø was out and said there were challenges with lack of compensation from the government. When Tromsø takes the government's estimate into account, they confirm to me that that problem was not there – Bergen as well. I have studied the revised budget of Oslo, and there is a good agreement between the government and the additional expenditure and income of the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e887	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e892	I think we're all on the verge of seeing, as the government also highlights in its documents to the Storting, the extreme uncertainty that prevails over the consequences and the economic situation resulting from the virus outbreak. Tax revenue is the main source of income in the municipal sector, so it is not immaterial for municipalities how they develop over the year, and it is correct that final settlement is not available until the next year. But we always know something about the income tax every two months, because then the money comes into the public account. I hear the Council of State ramming up everything that has been done to the municipal sector. And that's right, it was suggested a lot from the government. Much has also been reinforced here in Stortinget, and we have been busy – both parties – securing the municipal sector. But: The council repeatedly uses it to set up for the local government sector. I have just one simple question: does the Council of State think that the municipal sector should be compensated for the loss of tax revenue in relation to the estimate made in the State budget for 2020? Yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e901	I believe that the representative Sivertsen refers to the estimate made in the revised national budget for 2020, and if the government is blocking the estimates that we made in the revised national budget, we must, of course, come back and compensate the municipalities for that. There is a great deal of uncertainty that the representative also points to. No one knows how tax revenue is going to evolve beyond the harvest. No one knows if we're getting a new infection peak, which can lead to new constraints. Therefore, it is essential that we follow the situation closely, and that we are prepared to come back. And I want to thank the Stortinget for good cooperation throughout this spring around the compensation of the municipalities and other important matters for the country. But there's no reason to make the uncertainty bigger than it needs to be. I feel that some representatives – not the representative who now has posts, but others in this room – help to reinforce the uncertainty beyond what it is based on. I think that is very unfortunate for those municipalities that are now going to revise their budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e908	Then I will follow up by saying thank you for the answer, and my intention is just to clarify some of the uncertainty that prevails around in the local government sector, and as we have also heard it has been referred to several times today. I am now concerned with the tax revenue for 2020, which is, of course, also a basis for the opportunities of the local government sector in 2021. I have read the government's estimate of what the tax failure is estimated to be based on the information we now have under the great uncertainty. However, municipalities are governed on the basis of the budgets they adopted in 2020, which was based on the estimated tax intake for 2020. That is the basis for the operating budget for the local government sector. We have given some compensation, but my question concerns the guarantee. Is it the case that the Council of State believes that the municipal sector should be compensated for the loss of tax revenue in relation to the assumed level of the State budget for 2020? There is a question of State guarantee to the local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e915	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e921	The Council of State now confirms that there are too uncertain figures, and that he will come back to the autumn with compensation for the municipalities, and that there will be a final round in 2021. I have a great deal of understanding that there is uncertainty about the figures, but according to the municipal law § 14-5 local government and county councils will change the annual budget when necessary to meet the law's demands for realism and balance. If developments indicate significant deviations, the municipal director shall propose changes to the budget by June at the latest. Therefore, I am very surprised that the Council of State has not come to Stortinget with a temporary change to the municipal law. Can the Council of State guarantee that the local government sector will be fully compensated for corona-related expenditure and loss of income? Can he also confirm that the municipalities can then control large deficits this year, only it is corona-related, without that being contrary to the municipal law?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e930	It is of course the case that the municipal law should be complied with, even at this point. That is why we are concerned that municipalities now need to base the government's estimate of both tax failure and wage and price growth in the current year, so that they have a proper basis for reviewing their budgets. There are many reasons why municipalities are revising their budgets, and not all are due to corona. I think that's an important point to take with me. Many of the municipalities to which reference has been made in this debate, but also other municipalities to which I have spoken, have other challenges, which are due to things other than corona, which means that they also have to revise their budgets. Nevertheless, the press shows that there is a lack of compensation from the government that is why they have to cut their budgets. For example, Ålesund was a municipality. outside and said they had to cut 50 posts. They decided that in the financial plan in December, but in the class struggle they said that it was because of a lack of compensation from the government. So it's important that we keep our tongues right in our mouths when we talk about these things, and I assume that the municipalities are well able to revise their budgets within the estimates given by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e939	Of course, I'm talking about corona-related deficits and not others. This too must be dealt with by the municipalities at the June meeting. On another question, when the Financial Committee adopted package 2 of measures, a unanimous committee said that: «municipalities and county councils shall be compensated for the effect of tax failure, loss of income, including compensation for parental retirement, and additional costs associated with the coronary apathy». Unfortunately, it seems that the government parties in the Chamber today are voting against a right of speech, a similar proposal. Are we going to interpret it as if the government was not going to implement the unanimous remark of the Financial Committee? What is the reason why governments and government parties do not support that proposal today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e951	KS estimated that the additional expenditure and minor income for the local government sector would be between 19.9 billion. kr and 27 br. kr. As I explained instead, increased action spaces for municipalities as a result of new estimates and increased appropriations are close to 26 billion. kr from the government so far. The KS estimate underlines that there is a high degree of uncertainty, so we need to follow the situation carefully and come back if necessary. However, as of today, there is nothing to suggest that the local government sector is unable to cope with the situation they face. Nor is there anything to suggest that there is a cut in basic services for the population, based on the compensation provided by the government, and the revenue and minor expenses that we now have an overview of. Should that situation change, the government must of course come back, and I have guaranteed that we will set up, and I guarantee that we will come back if there is a need for it. But we have to make that assessment with KS, and when KS has a far more sober expression of reality than the opposition in the Stortinget, we might want to listen to what is the local community's own stakeholder organisation, rather than the opposition on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e958	The proposal to which the representative Mr Greni has just referred is, of course, KS’s wish, so it is KS’s wording that the government and government parties now choose not to vote for. It is such that the government could have parked the uncertainty that lies there, by being clear, by using the word seams, using the word warranty and not using words as up-to-date, how, not that, new assessments, loop notifications and very many other very uncertain terms – not because someone here thinks that today you can say just how much money this is about, but to establish the principle. I wonder: why is it so very difficult for the Council of State and for the majority to establish the principle and write it down so that it is possible for everyone to understand what the government really means?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e965	The size has already adopted a request decision asking the government to compensate for minor income and additional expenditure arising from the corona, and the government will, of course, follow that request decision. I've been clear, as I said, from day one on that we're going to set up for the municipalities, and that we're going to cover these extra expenses and the minor incomes resulting from the corona. I believe that we are doing our utmost to mitigate the uncertainty that I have a great deal of understanding that many municipalities know about – not for the situation today, but for how it stays at the end of the year. That's why we also need this working group with the KS to make sure that we have a unified understanding of the numerical basis. However, whoever contributes to increasing uncertainty is the representative Andersen, who says, completely without proof of the claim, that now it is a crisis, now many municipalities have to cut very much into basic services – without a reality I know myself in, after my close dialogue with the KS and individual municipalities around the country. So it would be nice if the representative could provide us with evidence of the claims she has made throughout the spring, that there is a need for immediate action of 10 billion. kr, e.g. Let me add that at some point, the ten billion will also be taken down again, and it will be demanding for the local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e974	It's a little strange to hear, when the Council of State in its statement claims that the local government sector has received 23 billion. 10 bn. kr is a problem. The point here is that the government has not shown that it has been willing to compensate these things. It was quite minimal, that government presented, right up to the last crisis package. So it was the Stortinget that made sure that there were some appropriations for the local government sector that were moneting something. I have a lot of contact with municipalities that are desperate. Among other things, they are very confused about the offer that is made to people who need care and care, who have now had to wait a very long time. They need to increase their efforts there in the future, and then it is a point to be able to use the community sector now as a kind of flood protection against greater unemployment. This is one of the reasons why SV has intended that we should secure the revenue both now and until the next year, so that we can, among other things. improve the quality and volume of those services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e979	I am very concerned that the municipalities should be able to provide good services both during this crisis and afterwards. That's why we've also been so clear that we have to set up – so far with close to 26 billion. kr. And then ask Andersen, if you add 10 billion, it'll matter. kr at the top of it? Yes, it does. This is a matter of responsible economic policy. We can't have it so that we're now going to spend money in all sectors. So far, the withdrawal of money from the oil fund results because of the corona that the annual action space in the Norwegian economy alone will be 11 billion. kr less every year in all future years. Taste it a little, when we also have to deal with demographic challenges, when we also have to deal with the fact that the oil sector is on the waving front, and that its revenue is going to be smaller in the years to come. These are challenges that we also have to deal with, and that are not going to go over by 10 billion. kr extra to the local government sector in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e984	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e989	Norway is a long-distance country, and we live in the inner valley and on the outer edge. But most of us live somewhere in the middle. Over 80 pst. of us live in cities and towns. Here we have our home and create our lives. In cities and cities, we also face many of the major challenges of finding good policy solutions for the future, such as infrastructure, innovation, business development, housing, exclusion and integration, and sustainability in terms of climate and environment. Creating and further developing a good living environment throughout the country is also about municipal economy. A strong and robust local economy, as the Workers' Party adds, is also helping to equip municipalities to pursue a good housing policy and a forward-looking urban and urban development. An important part of creating a good life is creating good homes and stronger communities. For the Workers' Party, it is brighter, warmer and greener cities and agglomerations where this is important: a safe and good local environment with schools, bicycle paths and collective services, access to work, leisure and cultural services, and giving older people an opportunity to be a boss in their own lives, including: by allowing them to stay at home longer and to have good institutions for those who need it. But it's not so rosy. In 215 municipalities, they have had negative operating results for at least one of the last two years. 55 of those municipalities have negative operating surplus in both years, and 174 municipalities have negative operating surplus in the provisional accounts for 2019. In addition, we see that small municipalities have lower net operating performance than large. We now see that the government's tight budgeting in recent years comes to the top of an economic crisis at covid-19. A clear prerequisite for the municipality planning of the Workers' Party in 2021 is that the municipal economy in 2020 is first secured, so that municipalities and county councils are fully compensated for the overall effects of tax failure, loss of income and additional costs associated with the coronary eruption. Then we believe that municipalities need an increased economic space to meet demographic, economic, climate and migration challenges. In the municipal bill for 2021, the government is adding to a low growth in the free income of the municipal sector, a real growth of between 0.5 pst. and 0.6 pst. This is the second worst growth of 16 years, only turned off last year's low growth in free income. Growth is also consumed by increased demographic costs and pension costs. The Labour Party believes that the government's proposals are too low when municipalities have large, unsolved tasks in key welfare areas. The government does not enable municipalities to solve their tasks better. We have greater ambitions than the government to improve the quality of well-being, care and school in the municipal sector. We believe that there is a need for a sharp increase in the growth in the income of municipalities and counties. That is why we are giving priority to strengthening the income of the municipal sector in 2021 by 3 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1006	It has been interesting to follow the debate so far. We have been in the worst crisis since World War II for the last few weeks and months, and when everyday life changes around us, politics and arguments must also change. Then it's surprising, I think, to hear that the opposition uses the same argument as before: major transfers. The economy of most of our municipalities before the coronary crisis was reasonably good. The record number of municipalities was on the ROBEK list. Then came the corona, the oil crisis, and great turmoil in the capital market. It is often referred to as the financial crisis as a comparison, but it did not hit Norway very hard in relation to the world around us. At that time the oil price remained high, and the direct income of the state was maintained, but that is not the case today. In this situation, I am pleased that the Municipal Bank was added 750 million. kr in equity. It is important that the Municipal Bank can refinance part of the municipal debt. In the crisis we are in, we are all put to the test: community, nation and individual people. We have a government that has made quick decisions in the last few months, but we are now in a phase where we need a policy to create more and include more, to secure the economic basis for the future. It is difficult to know how the measures taken affect the municipalities, and I am therefore pleased that the government, together with the KS, has set up working groups to identify the economic impact of the Koronakrisa on the local economy. There is no doubt that the municipalities have been in a difficult situation and have done a great deal of work, and that for many there have been additional costs that have to be handled. However, when I hear this debate, it does not seem that opposition parties will take time to assess the impact of the transfers and actions that have been carried out. There is more money to distribute, said the representative Lauvås and makes it sound like a competition for maximum transfers to the local government sector – 3 billion. kr from Arbeiderparteit, 4 brd. kr from the Centre Party, SEK 7-9 billion. kr from the Socialist Left Party, and Red tops it all. But it is not necessarily those who promise the most money that ensures the best results in the long term. It allows those who can adapt to reality and manage to make a safe, long-term transition — a necessary transition. Every three heads in the state budget is an oil crown. With falling oil revenues and increased expenditure, realism is a virtue. The government has taken responsibility for providing municipalities with a secure and predictable local economy so that they can provide good services not only this year but also in the coming years. Here in Stortingen, the government parties and the Advance Party follow up to secure the future we need, for the benefit of the inhabitants. We have a large public sector in Norway. Around every three Nordics are employed in the public sector. The average in OECD countries is around 18 pst. We have a government budget that has passed 1 400 billion. kr, approx. 5.4 million people. Sweden has a government budget of about 1 000 billion in comparison. kr and a population of about 10 million people. We are privileged who have been able to do this, but no trees grow into heaven. This municipal bill reminds us that our local economy cannot be seen detached from what is happening in the world around us, nor from what is happening in the private sector. That's why we're also asking for more exposure from the opposition to how we're going together to facilitate to create more and include more. Finally, I would also like to comment on resource-intensive services in the municipalities and the top funding for this. It's been an important thing. There are important and large schemes in municipalities, and they mean a lot to the individual who benefits from the services. That is why I am very pleased that the government parties and the Progress Party have joined forces to raise this issue and ask that the government now look at it and facilitate mechanisms for the top-level funding system in the municipalities, in a way that also takes care of the smaller municipalities with a large number of users of resource-intensive services. It'll be loveable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1024	Let me start again with saying thank you to the Council of Astrup. I believe that today in this Chamber we have come a long way in clearing up the uncertainty that has been about how the local economy is to be saved for the current year. I understand that we have learned that any loss of tax revenue for the local government sector compared to the estimates made for the current year’s government budget will be compensated for by the local government sector. I perceive that there is a dialogue about additional expenditure. It will be a very demanding discussion that must be the responsibility of the government to find out about the sector, what expenditure to cover and what not. It's quite right, as they say, that here there are 358 municipalities and some states that want to have each of their own operations and do this. Here we need to find an appropriate and effective way to do it, but it's the government's responsibility to make sure that the additional costs that are incurred are actually covered, and I'm absolutely sure that you can't make everyone up. I also believe that a great deal of attention is being paid to following developments both in tax access and in what has been a liquidity challenge – and we must assume that the government is also doing the rest of the year – for public transport. They bleed money when they deliver on that government has asked that traffic capacity be maintained despite demand having fallen, among other things. as a result of the restrictions on freedom of movement imposed by the Government. Then it's only reasonable to compensate for the loss of ticket revenue in full so that you can solve the assignment. Then you get to deal with it in a practical way on an ongoing basis. It should provide the municipal sector with management speed for the rest of the year. With that, I think I'm leaving the current year and moving over to next year, which is really the topic of the debate here. You can enjoy it, but it's true, as the representative Tveiten Benestad said in previous posts, that we can't discuss the local economy this year or next year freed from the developments in the economy that we see both in Norway and internationally. It is the strong communities around small and large municipalities that form the basis for the welfare of Norway. Ensuring equivalent opportunities is a central task for the Storing and Government. There are young people who are going to school and kindergarten; there are older people in nursing homes who need help so that they can stay at home as far as possible; there are newly-baked parents in the health centre, businesses and residents who want to develop community. Everyone needs a municipality that provides good and equivalent services. It is we, the Storting and the Government, who lay the framework for the development of the service provision to the municipalities. If we see the municipal economy last year, in the year and next year in the context, then the bulk of the population's contribution to stronger welfare in the municipalities is quite poor. The government's own figures show that the average annual real growth in the free revenues of the municipal sector for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020 is 0 pst. The financial structure on which the municipal sector is based for the current year was the worst arrangement that has been presented in the last 15 years. The forecasted economic development for next year will continue at the same rate. There is little room for development and growth in the sector. Real growth is eaten up by demography, it is wage and price growth, and it is pension costs, which also raise considerable uncertainty as a result of the recession in the economy. Nevertheless, we hear both here today and in the media that representatives of the government parties claim that the local economy is better than ever. It's hardly a truth. What is true is that in recent years many municipalities have had large tax profits based on unforeseeable income. As I said before, you can't base the operation of a municipality on income you don't know you get. One is that it's just guessing, the other is that it's directly illegal, especially after the restrictions of the new municipal law that have come into force. We are all happy that there are record few municipalities in ROBEK. We're all happy about that. But we also see when we get the fasit through the KOSTRA numbers, that the growth and the economic situation of the municipalities at the beginning of this year was not as good as you like to make it. The total net operating surplus, as a percentage of gross operating income, decreases. It is halved compared to e.g. 2016, whether you take Oslo or not. The government and the majority of the population add up to this, does not mean investment and development in the local government sector; it is a tightening. I strongly disagree with the mention of the local government sector as just a waste of money and just spending money. Investing in welfare for people, giving a nursery place so that parents can get into work, investing in better education for the young, and providing good quality and dignity in care for the elderly are not spending money; it is actually investing in better community, and this government is seriously failing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1045	Norway is an all-round country. We have a varied business life, vibrant community and runaway people. Covid-19 has hit Norway hard, and the effects of this have unfortunately not yet been seen. This is why the government is constantly working on measures that can get the country back on track. We will do this by helping to create activity and support new jobs and businesses across the country. Before covid-19, Norway has made record investments in road and other transport structures that allow it to live and work throughout the country. It allows local enterprises to grow and create more jobs and new activities in local communities and contribute to better well-being. It is tax receipts from private sector jobs that contribute to good kindergartens, schools and hospitals for our citizens. It also reduces taxes and taxes. The government has reduced taxes by about 25 billion. kr. Tax relief facilitates profitable business throughout the country, giving greater freedom for individuals and families. Massive roll-out of broadband provides access to basic broadband services for many. In 2019, a total of 86 pst. of Norwegian households offering high-speed broadband, against only 63 pst. in 2013. Also in scattered areas, the proportion of high-speed broadband access is more than four times higher than in 2013. By 2020, more than 400 million more have been allocated. kr for further expansion of broadband in the districts. This contributes to growth and development across the country. I would also like to remind you that Norway is now deploying 5G mobile networks at a rapid pace. Technology opens up completely new applications for business and key societal functions and in our private lives. With 5G, Norway will experience an entirely new mobile everyday life. We're talking about super-fast connection, good coverage and very high speed and capacity. The government has facilitated early 5G expansion in Norway, among others. through the early release of frequencies for 5G. The state spent 150 million. kr on this in 2019. Differentiated employer's fee is good district policy, and we know it works. The Government is adding up with the European Commission to extend the current scheme by 2021. The government will engage in dialogue with ESA to continue the scheme even after 2022, when the EU regional aid guidelines are clear. The Government's objective is that this scheme should also be continued after 2022. Good labour supply is also a prerequisite for growth and development in the country. Continuing education must be available to people where they live and work. Decentralised higher education is a key factor for few to this. Enterprises may find it difficult to attract skills and professionals. That's why we want to move study places closer to where people live and work, through both decentralised, online and flexible offerings. With regard to on-line education, the government and the social partners have cooperated on new initiatives to Competence Norway and the Directorate for Internationalisation and Quality Assurance, precisely to develop online continuing training offers, specifically aimed at digital competence development. This is important for District Norway. Through the Competence Pilots measure, we have now granted 50 million. to counties over three years in order to develop and improve measures to link industry’s needs for skills with continuing training provision. Districts face challenging demographic challenges in the coming years. The government is working on finding answers. Municipalities play a central role in the economic development around the country. We must continue to facilitate this by creating jobs and contributing to growth and development throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1064	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1069	I see that the Council of State is travelling and visiting rapporteurs, data centres and cultural houses, and that is good. Sogn Avis reads that the Council of State was served both at home and at coffee, and that the talk was lively around the table about the Korona crisis, digitisation and weddings in the community as the great innovation in the community reform. Then maybe I can add on my own account that maybe the municipality is given the task to grant divorces later on – what do I know? It's a little difficult to find the big political case in this, so I'm asking the Council of State about the operating results in the municipalities. So as we mentioned here, they're going down. 212 municipalities have lower operating performance than recommended and have had at least one of the last two years. In particular, this applies to the less populated municipalities in the districts. What will the Council of State do to improve that situation, so that the operating results can actually rise to the level they should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1076	As I also said in my post, it is important in the future that we facilitate the creation of jobs around the districts. This is what we do with the government's high rate of trade and by facilitating the use and provision of land by municipalities, so that those operating in the aquaculture sector can create activity and values. Then the government will also look at how the smaller municipalities will get out. We are concerned with equivalent services and that municipalities should have a good offer and care for their citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1081	Thanks for the answer, that was interesting. Now the Council of State signals that the government should look at the smaller municipalities in particular. Does the Council of State signal a change in the income system, so that there is a better intermunicipalization, as it was in the past, before the government changed the income system to what it is now, which favors the larger and more populous municipalities? If that's what the government's signaling, it's very good, and I'm glad to hear that the government is now going to lay down on that line. If the Council of State can confirm that that's what she means, it'll be very nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1086	As the representative knows, this is something that has not been concluded. We've come up with some leads on how to draw the map. That's what the district index gives you clear indications. The income system sample shall also look at the index and, where appropriate, how it can be used as part of the income system, but it has not been concluded here. We are now looking at the regional instruments, how they can be set up, so that particularly affected district municipalities can have a positive development as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1091	After hearing the question from the representative, Lauvås, it is almost tempting to say that he has to get into the income system and understand that small municipalities have received solid transfers of this large-scale majority in the last seven years. It is significant both for small municipalities and for regional actions. The reason I took a reply is something I had threatened the minister to talk about, that is digitalization, but I gave her the chance to answer my question. Is there a consensus with the Progress Party that when it comes to planning processes, municipalities need to digitize and become more equal, so that citizens and developers can stick to a more equal system? We also want to simplify planning and building laws, so that housing can be planned more quickly throughout Norway, and that these processes can become more digitised. Does the Government agree with the Progress Party that it is possible here to take initiatives to make it easier for developers and people most to get through planning processes faster?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1098	I very much agree with the representative Njåstad that we have a lot to go on here. I am also pleased that we have now raised the possibility of establishing the local state house. We are now testing out a pilot in, among other things. Instead of seeing how we can cooperate more closely on digital services in order to make it easier for citizens, to make services more efficient, because we see that there is a lot of collaboration between local and local departments of state agencies, rather than that everyone has to have different systems. It is clear that there is something we need to work more to establish, because it will benefit everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1103	I thank the Council of State for your answer. It is positive that you agree with the Progress Party that you can do more to digitize. When the Council of State mentions the House of the State, I will not say that it is going down the back of me, but it gives me associations to statesmen, who often sit in the House of the State. They may be the biggest reason why the districts are not allowed to build dwellings and are not allowed to plan, because they are too much away from local democracy. Fortunately, the government has done something to simplify dispensation practices, and we have some things on our ears – but far from it. The local democracy continues to experience that the state’s representative in the state state as his own house makes trouble. I wonder: will an additional initiative be taken to stress that local democracy is going to be stronger, and that the State is going to make fewer concessions and to be less involved in things that local politicians want to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1108	I feel that ever since the Right Party and the Advance Party joined the government in 2013, it has been a premise that local self-government should be strengthened, that the influence of the State should be reduced – precisely because we believe that services are best served by local decision-making. In the case of the State House and to test it out in four pilots around the country, it is about the local departments of state agencies already outsourced to look at how to cooperate, how to deliver better services, and how to streamline. There shall certainly not be a new mastodont or a new State actor trying to restrict the autonomy of local authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1116	It was interesting to hear the Council of State comment on the large movement effort of the government, that it was, as it were, the great effort to create regional development and not least new jobs, etc. I think maybe I owe the Council of State to draw attention to the fact that the county councils are actually making investments, for example. in new ferries, new county roads, new tunnels, race protection, etc. It is quite right that there has been an increase in the part of the pot that Stortinget has considered to be available, but there is still free funding available to the county municipalities. I could also imagine talking about decentralised and online study facilities and hearing if the Council of State agrees with the representative Gudmundsen from her own party that halving the number of study places within the area of Helgeland is a strengthening of decentralised education. That's what the representative meant yesterday. But the Council of State therefore considered that the construction of infrastructure is essential for the creation of new jobs. What, then, are the consequences of changes in the Ferry Redemption Scheme for new jobs and better housing and labour market regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1123	Good roads, whether it's E6 or E18, are just as important for the districts as for people living in more central districts, because businesses have to export their goods. They cannot stop when they come from the coast of Trondelag with salmon from Hitra and Frøya. In fact, it has to be driven out to Europe, and then we are totally dependent on having good, strong traffic trails all over the country. The Ferry Redemption Scheme shall provide partial financing for, for example: a bridge or subsea tunnel that shorts on a ferry link. I think what the government is proposing is a good proposal, and I don't think it should be the only answer to the jobs and the growth created around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1130	It is rather alarming that the district minister does not know that there are the county roads that are the bottlenecks for business in Norway, and clearly does not believe that goods should be on the road, but that it should continue to run past the ears of us who live along the E6. What I need to ask the Council of State is about proposals that SV promotes in this position, which are very important for the municipalities. I'll mention two of them in particular. One with the study centres is that they must receive basic funding. It doesn't seem to me that the university and university sectors can handle this for themselves, because they focus on completely different things and are occupied with campus. The second is 5G, where the council says you should start in cities. Why can't you do what SV wants, and start with this technology in the districts, so that they can even out the distance constraints they actually have? Now, the government is strengthening the difference between the city and the country by starting this in the cities as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1137	We start in both town and country. We're both doing both, and that's why we've also started out in the districts with the addition of 5G. In the case of bottlenecks and county roads, it is unfortunately such that when we took over after SV's eight years in government, there was a pleasurable investment in transportation. Now we have a historical boost. SV has been one of those who have slowed down the development of E18 – one of the most important export routes out of Norway, which helps businesses get their goods quickly and efficiently onto the continent – by concluding an agreement with the MDG and making sure that districts continue to develop. In terms of competence, it is important for enterprises to have access to skilled labour and to reconcile educational environments and business needs is crucial in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1146	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1151	In Drammen, my home municipality, the municipal budget is presented as blood-red numbers you have not seen before, which is recognized by both red and blue politicians. At the same time, the right-hand government claims that it has secured positive numbers for the municipalities. How little contact with reality can you have in a government office in Oslo? Municipal economy is a word that in half-driving Norwegian can be called a little sexy, and that's a little strange, because municipal economy is the key to something that's really important to us all. If you stand with the luggage on the stairs after a long and tiring journey home from vacation, you will enter. Then, ‘Where is the house key, have I lost it?’ is a boring question. In everyday life, we want our children to be good at kindergarten and good at school. We want to be sure that Granny is taken care of in the care of the elderly. We want the buses to go and the cultural offer to be good. Then ‘May my municipality have to cut heavily in the budget?’ is not a boring question. It's about the house key to good life in the welfare state of Norway. This spring the employees in the municipalities have shown us who they are. Together with hospital employees, they are the first line of welfare. Our municipalities have many of the people we as a nation have clapped to. Employees in the care of the elderly, who have been on it, often have too little infectious equipment and the risk of self-infection, in order to save life and health. It's the teachers who, at short notice, crept around and organized home school so that our children would get the best possible schooling. There are employees in schools and kindergartens who have dealt with new challenges during the gradual reopening. The list is long. Since the pandemic hit Norway in March, there have been several rounds of different crisis packages for industry and industry. The working party in Stortinget has helped to make the packages better, but it has, after all, been a common understanding between us and the right parties that this is important. On the other hand, when it comes to standing up for the heroes of the public sector who ensure the welfare of the country, the Right is sitting on its hind legs. The understanding and the commitment are missing. Unfortunately, it is not surprising. While working for everyone and building the welfare state is the main project of the Workers' Party, the right side has a different tradition, and I believe that the crisis has shown that the Labour Party's path is the best. It is based on two pillars: a solid and high-growth private business and a well-functioning public sector that ensures everyone's well-being, regardless of address and wallet size. Arrogant and remote from reality, it must be called when the Prime Minister asks rapporteurs who demand a better community economy to calm down. Before the crisis occurred, she had not only taken too lightly on the preparedness for infection, she had served the country's municipalities the worst budget in 15 years. Then came the crisis, and the municipalities got huge extra expenses while the revenues collapsed. And then she doesn't set up now as our municipalities have a very important task: to ensure that we're prepared for continued corona management, to build up preparedness for new situations, to contribute with business to more people getting into a job, and to ensure – at a time when many people are historically out of work – that the differences don't increase. Unfortunately, in times of crisis, those who are most vulnerable are also the hardest hit. The working party will go another way. We want health and work security. We want a community that sets up, so no one stays alone. At Stortinget we therefore propose – in fact, revised – that we should strengthen the municipal economy by 6 billion. kr, because it is also a prerequisite for how future local economies become. And it's a clear guarantee from us that extra costs such as tax losses and additional costs will be covered. It would have meant – for the citizens, for everyone who needs the welfare state, and for everyone who works in it – an important guarantee in the time we are in. We don't get a majority, we just have to admit that. That's why the right-wing government's prescription is for people in the Drammen and all the other municipalities that now have blood red numbers will notice the time we're inside. But it's not long for the big shot in 2021. Then there will be a fight for the welfare state, because that is what this matter we are dealing with today, is actually about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1170	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1175	An important motivation for my political commitment has been the house key that the representative Gharahkhani spoke about. It is to contribute to a good framework for the municipal sector. In the Workers' Party we know that the municipalities must have the freedom to do their best. They must have a state framework that promotes local policy solutions adapted to local needs. Without action spaces, local self-government dies. Even before the Coronapandemy, the red number in Kommune-Norway shined. 43 pst. of the municipalities had a negative net operating surplus last year. The backside here is that the government's tight budgeting in recent years, combined with state standards and requirements that are not covered, weakens the municipal budgets. The cuts are hard on children and the elderly. Then came the coronary eruption. The economic corona loss for municipalities is massive and puts additional pressure on municipalities, which also have to look forward to tax losses as a result of the decline in the Norwegian economy. Municipalities have a legitimate expectation that the government will cover additional costs and losses resulting from the pandemic. But as we can see, and as KS has also registered today: the government does not comply. The local economy is facing an uncertain harvest. Take, for example: Enebakk municipality in Akershus/Viken. They have not yet cut or permitted, but have kept services at a level that before the coronary eruption because the municipality feels that they have a responsibility to maintain activity and keep unemployment down, and because they have been promised that the extra costs should be covered. If the municipality does not now receive the necessary funds, they will suffer a brutal blow to the offer to the inhabitants. The Workers' Party assumes that the local economy here and now must be secured first. Municipalities and county councils must be fully compensated for the economic effects of covid-19 and also equipped to meet the other major societal challenges of economic and technological change, climate and demography. In the Workers' Party we therefore prioritise a strengthening of the municipal sector, which Masud Gharahkhani had in mind, in addition to the government's proposals. Finally, I would like to point out that the Workers' Party has worked all the way – and this is something else – to prevent the municipalities from losing out on the introduction of the teacher's norm. That is why we have actively prioritised more teachers in our budgets, and therefore we are promoting today a proposal to prevent smaller municipalities from paying to comply with the teaching norm in larger municipalities. The Labour Party will have a good service throughout Norway. National efforts should be financed from the State budget rather than by redeployment between municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1192	New knowledge is always good. That is why I look forward to new knowledge of the government's proposal on the ferry redemption system, as it is also the committee that has promoted in this matter. It will be exciting to see how the Minister for District and Digitalisation will promote it. The issue we are discussing here today is the basic welfare offer that Norwegian citizens get in the municipalities and through county municipalities. So the issue is how to finance schools, how to finance new road construction, and how to ensure that there are enough staff in full-time positions in the care of the elderly. So the thing is really much bigger than you often get the impression, not least when you're trying to draw the theme into a larger context. For the Central Party, it is quite obvious that services near people provide opportunities for value creation – that we ensure that people use the natural resources that exist throughout the country, and not least use the knowledge and competences that they hold. At the same time, we see that the scheme presented by the government is a further starvation of Norwegian county councils and municipalities. It is not possible to make use of all the possibilities that lie there. There is not enough means to ensure that a sufficient number of boats go on frequently enough, nor that ferries should reach for, among other things. to obtain the salmon in the transport year in which the Minister had so far entered. For the Central Party, it is essential to establish a financial framework for the municipal sector, for both the counties and the municipalities, which ensures basic services for the inhabitants near people. Local and regional politicians always have difficult priorities, but those priorities could be simplified if the majority of the population at least agreed that there would be no possibility of achieving the objectives they have set, with the economic approach that is now thought to be in place. The proposal of the Central Party for 4 bn. In addition to what the government is proposing, it is based on the needs we see to get more boats, to ensure that the buses go, and to build the schools that local politicians want out there. That's what this is all about, and it probably deserved an even bigger debate than we have here today, and not least throughout the year. So most of the things can be related to this issue when local politicians have to tell them that they are going to put down the leisure club, not to maintain the road or to make a ferry offer. The possibilities of county municipalities to be regional social developers – seeing a larger area in context and laying the basis for creating more jobs, for which we have a strong need in this country – are greatly reduced under this government. The overall scheme of reduced transfers to operation and investment grants thus provides a poor picture for the future of Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1217	The decline in Norway has given rise to considerable uncertainty about the future. Municipalities and counties need to cut off important services due to income failure and increased costs. On 10 May, the deadline for the counties to give their priorities to the national transport plan was set. There is a constant alarm about a growing maintenance kit run on the county roads, which has now reached quite unmanageable sizes. A report from 2018 shows that the maturity increases annually by between 2.5 and 3 billion. kr. This is serious. The quality of the county road network is compromised by safety, but the competitiveness of Norway is also affected by poor road quality. Many county roads are important transport modes. In their comments on the municipal proposition, government parties are more concerned with expounding and blaming others than with taking the necessary measures. Let it be clear: the county councils are good road owners, and they have taken responsibility. They do what they can to get more money, but the cost increase is significantly higher than the transfers from the country. Now, through the regional reform, they have a number of tasks that are also not fully financed, such as: the responsibility for fishing ports, FOT routes, broadband and mobile coverage. More floods and breeds give county councils large unforeseen expenses. When roads and bridges are gone, this has to be fixed. It is no longer compensated by the state. The tunnel safety regulation was also to be compensated for counties, but at the speed of the government, the minimum measures were financed in 2037, while the deadline was 2019. The counties lead in the green shift, with a zero-emission bet within what we in Norway are good at, which in turn gives important value creation, namely speedboats and ferries. New technologies, digitisation and industrial development linked to research and competence deserve greater effort and not just words. Only for the financial year 2020 would the Workers' Party's alternative budget have given the counties 1.6 billion. to carry out their duties more than those assigned to them by today’s government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1229	The debate on the funding of voluntary centres has been taking place through several budgetary processes in recent years, and this year 200 million have been allocated. D on the budget of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation of the Centres for Volunteers. It's an increase of almost 115 million. kr in 2013. In 1990, Wenche Frogn Zellæg, a social minister from the Right, had the pleasure of inspiring the municipalities to start up with volunteer centres, as it was then called. The idea then was that there would be a meeting place where the threshold was low for anyone who would make an active voluntary effort in the community. The first budget appropriation was entered in the following year. The idea that the earmarked State grant from 2021 would be introduced as a resident grant, so that the municipalities themselves had to take the political burden it might be to use the funds for purposes other than their own, was good. There is reason to recall that the proposal to transfer responsibility for the grant was promoted in Meldning. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Municipal reform – new tasks for larger municipalities. In its opinion, the majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, said that 'communities should be given greater and more overall responsibility in the areas of volunteering, prevention and public health'. In the following transitional period, we have seen that many municipalities re-prioritise the funds to the volunteer centres. The speech of the figures also shows us that if the state grant is converted into a resident grant, it will significantly weaken the ability to maintain the activity of the volunteer centres in many smaller municipalities. The right is concerned with predictability of the important work being carried out through the many volunteer centres. We are concerned that these funds are distributed to the centres in an unbureaucratic and efficient way. We are therefore very pleased that the Stortinget today asks the government to ensure that funding of volunteer centres is transferred to earmarked grants from 2021 in order to secure funding directly to the centres in all the municipalities of the country. The budget over which the money is allocated is far less important, but since we in the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture have the primary responsibility for the government's policy of volunteering, I welcome the fact that the funds are transferred to the Ministry of Culture's budget. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the local politicians from many parties, volunteers in the country's volunteer centres, and not least Norway's volunteers, for they have been very clear in the dialogue with us here at Stortinget. Today, everyone can celebrate that a long battle of influence is crowned with victory.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1248	Life is lived in the municipalities, and therefore the municipalities are also crucial for Norway to achieve its climate goals. Estimates from the Environment Directorate show that municipalities can contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by between 13 and 26 million. tonnes per year. It's equal to between 15 and 30 pst. of consumption by the north and between 25 and 50 pst. of all greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian territory. An important part of this is for municipalities, among others. public transport, and many municipalities and counties have come a long way. Electrification of ferries is one full-time measure, but that change costs money, and that change must continue. Therefore, it is worrying that the transition now stops due to the lack of willingness of the majority to contribute government funding. On the contrary, the Central Party believes that the financing arrangements for green migration in public transport and for ferries need to be strengthened. As I started with, life lives in the municipalities. It is also important that this is not only about reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but actually also about adapting to the climate change that is here – here and now. It's about securing people, and it's about securing values. Climate change is leading to more unpredictable weather patterns. Today we have received notice of the rainstorm. The consequence of it will be floods and floods. Otherwise, the consequences may be forest fires, breeds, droughts and soil erosion. It affects drinking water supply, sewerage systems, roads, travel areas, commercial areas and residential areas, and thus people's health and safety, and ultimately it is the municipalities that are responsible. Therefore, it is essential that we strengthen the ability of municipalities to operate climate adaptation and build sufficient knowledge, so that municipalities plan prevention when municipal plans and regulatory plans are to be drawn up and adopted. Prevention of climate change will be crucial in the future and a central part of the country’s overall response. In the view of the Centre Party, one of the most important things we can contribute in this way is to look at the possibility of a climate adaptation fund where particularly vulnerable municipalities can seek funding. We should also look at reward schemes for municipalities that are taking additional measures to prevent climate risk, and perhaps they should also have carrots for municipalities that are now betting on their water and sewerage systems. There's an enormous lag. Climate adaptation measures are very expensive, and then we must enable the municipalities to take responsibility for their citizens, so that health and safety are not compromised. It means at the bottom good and solid municipal economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1261	The municipal sector has a decisive role to play in enabling us, as a nation, to develop in line with the sustainability targets. Municipalities and county councils are responsible for political priorities in terms of health and education, environment and climate, security and cooperation. They provide guidance for growth, for prosperity and for well-being. In order to meet the new societal challenges, both in the short and long term, there is a need for a continuous focus on innovation and research in the municipal sector. There is a demanding health perspective at the heart of the responsibilities of the municipal sector. Nevertheless, research and innovation are often very sector-specific both in the municipal sector and in the research community. It is bounded by subjects, subjects and disciplines, and little is conveyed across the board. It is important that resources for innovation work are given priority in the framework commitments of the local government sector. Framework funding and framework management strengthen local self-government and provide action space for municipalities, while facilitating an equivalent service provision across the country. Much good work is being done in municipalities with the development of service provision and innovation in the sector. But this requires robust municipalities that can respond to the legitimate expectations and needs of citizens about a good future. The use and optimisation of own operations is a continuous work in Kommune-Noreg. An important part of the work is about digitisation in the public sector. The government has high ambitions to renew and improve both the administration and the public sector. Good digitisation projects and adequate deployment of Internet coverage across the country are important. 5G is going to be so fast that it's going to be comparable to fibrenet. It opens up everything from smart communities to e-health. The development of 5G is about both business and district policy, network neutrality and security, and will be a very important issue for municipalities in the future. The paper on innovation in the public sector, which is a warning to the autumn, is becoming an important and important tool for further implementation and efficiency in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1278	The Center Party wants a better boating and ferrying policy in District Norway. We want better state funding for the boat and ferries. We want good route offers, acceptable ticket prices and help to implement the state's commitment to more environmentally friendly maritime transport. That is the background to the proposal for a representative of the Central Party which is being discussed here today. To give a picture of the skeptical situation today, I'm going to refer to a hearing from More and Romesdal. They point out that while transfers to county road ferries have increased by 55 pst, from 1600 million. NOK 2476 million. kr in the period 2010-2020, transfers to the operation of riksvägferger increased by 140 pst. during the same period. The numbers are in nominal dollars. The county councils manage about 100 ferry connections, and the state is responsible for about 16 ferry connections. Transport over fjord and sea is important for many people in coastal areas, such as Westland, Trøndelag, Møre and Romsdal, Nordland, Troms and Finnmark. I know Nordland best and use it as an example. Here the county has to adjust a cut from the state for half a billion dollars. There have been many tough rounds, and the mariners are still fighting for good transport services where they live. Now there are seven residents of the North Soviet Republic who are fighting to keep the speedboat. I hope they succeed, and I know that state politicians are looking for solutions. Many of the parties who want a solution to this and other boat routes are at the same time totally opposed to spending money to compensate the boat and ferry companies for the large extra costs of transportation. The coastal states experience that they have to cut in routes and/or switch up prices. This is what the Center Party is trying to do. I've been on the Stortinget for three years, and this is the third time we promote a proposal to improve the situation of the coastal people and the mariners by finding money to compensate for the special boat and ferry costs. If we succeed, it's good for the coast, and it's good for the inlands of these states. The counties have one budget, and all the inhabitants are in the same budget boat. The Centre Party proposes to establish the criteria for financing boat and ferry operations so that the offer can be developed on the basis of reasonable fares. The centre party also proposes that the State fully bear the additional costs of climate change conversion of fast boat and ferry traffic. We also propose to pay a national maximum price for boat and ferry tickets where the state fully compensates for the loss of income in the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1291	I'm going to bring up a theme that involves me and many others. It's that there's an unnecessary amount of uncertainty about our volunteer agencies. For too long, there has been great concern about the future of volunteer centres – since 2015, when the blue-blue government presented the Storingsberichten Kommunereform – new tasks for larger municipalities. In the Communication, the Government proposed that the grant to volunteer centres should be suddenly incorporated into the framework grants to municipalities, based on population figures. Wake-up should be the State contribution to the operation by centralisation. Many small municipalities quickly understood that with tight municipal economy this would quickly become the hook at the door of their central banks, since they are not required to do so. With this proposal, 70 pst would actually be. of all municipalities received less grants to their volunteer centres than they now receive – 70 pst. For our 468 volunteer agencies, since the proposal came, it has been very challenging that the government has for many years created such an unpredictable situation. However, these have responded vigorously to the unwise proposal of the government, which was due to enter into force in 2021 – with good help from municipal politicians and not least from centre parties all over the country, among others. in my home state of Telemark. In the Centre Party, we have been critical of changing the funding mechanism from day one. The reason is that volunteer centres are very important meeting places in the community – in smaller cities, as the well-run I recently visited in Kragerø, which is now afraid of closure, and perhaps especially in even smaller municipalities, as in the neighbouring municipality of Drangedal, where the meeting places are few. Volunteer centres also contribute greatly to integration, as well as to creating life and touch and community by organising and organising a variety of activities, which are of great pleasure and benefit to large and small people, ranging from senior cafés to tour groups, visiting or activity friends, language courses and food delivery, which have been very invaluable to many municipalities during the Korona crisis. For both the users and the municipalities, it has been completely incomprehensible why the government wanted to change a system that works so well. The government's proposals have really created a lot of anxiety and anxiety. But the story of the blue-blue centralisation of Norway has now received a new and surprising but positive chapter. In the municipal bill for 2021, the government has understood that they must postpone the planned changes. Thumb Up That means the volunteers get some breathing space. But it's still unclear what we can expect after 2021. It is a unanimous committee that promotes this, but what we do with funding further, we do not know. Therefore, make it clear that at least the Centre Party will continue to work as before to ensure the predictable and sustainable operation of volunteer centres. We still believe that transfers should come as direct state subsidies. I cross my fingers so that the government and the supporting party agree that we can put all this uncertainty that has been completely dead in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1306	This debate has been quite predictable in many ways. It's been a one-sided money focus from the opposition, and I want to say a pretty short-term money focus. In particular, I think it was listening to the main article of the Workers' Party, where in ten minutes you had nothing else to say but that there was too little money for most. In terms of action in the longer term – how to get a sustainable municipal sector in a situation where we are not going to have the money we have today, and where we know that the challenges are getting bigger – no contribution has been made. There was also no other answer in the line change than that the money exists, that it has to do with distribution, and that means tax tightening. We can also see from the setting that the Workers' Party and the Center's party, in and of course also SV, have written together on a lot, and that's what I'm counting on is building something together towards the next election. Then we see the outlines of what we have in store. It is for the most important reforms we are facing, no energy. We need to modernise a lot in the municipalities. We need more use of private actors to achieve a good dynamic between public and private service providers, and we need not least a continued community reform. For all these things, the Labour Party appears lukewarm or negative. When it comes to issues of community reform, everything has been written together, and I really have to ask: is it that the Labour Party does not see the need for larger and more sustainable municipalities? The Labour Party has signed up to a majority who say: ‘The majority point to major demographic challenges in many municipalities. Community integration will not, of course, change the demographics of the regions and will therefore not solve the challenge.’ No, I totally agree with that. I don't think people want to move or die because municipalities merge, but I can imagine that they could get a better offer for a better old age, if that happened, that the municipality's budget volume would increase and have better room for recruitment, better room for gaining expertise, and for improving the quality of care services. I eagerly await the next article by the representative Lauvås, where I will give him a chance to take possible steps to show how the Workers' Party views this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1318	The county councils are responsible for approx. 44 000 km of road, and the counties have proved to be good road owners after taking over large parts of the state road network. Analysis by several agencies shows that the counties mainly spend more money on the new county roads than they did before the 2010 administrative reform. Within its framework, the counties have high priority road construction and maintenance, and much of the road network taken over by the counties was in poor condition, with a large maintenance run. The centre party has previously proposed a stepping-up plan to reduce the maintenance run for the county roads, and the county roads have been so extensively maintained over the year that it is difficult to see that it can be sufficiently repaired without a larger state contribution, and we are adding an additional billion to our alternative budget now. A maintenance programme could outline the follow-up plan for county road maintenance with proposals for funding models and organisation to increase maintenance and post-storage on the county road network. The economic structure of the county councils in this municipal proposal reduces the scope for action of the county councils and is likely to increase the maintenance run on the county roads. The central party has in several alternative state budgets provided for increased frameworks for county municipalities. It could make the counties better able to maintain their road network. We also see that the government has changed the income system so that some counties with many kilometres of highway have come out extra bad. The basic document for NTP 2018-2019 states that there is a significant downturn on the county road network. The cost of repairing critical infrastructure such as tunnels, bridges and ferries is so substantial that the mode of transport considers that a separate programme for renewal of county roads should be considered. They use the term ‘renewal’. This was not prioritised by the bulk of the population during the treatment of NTP in spring 2017. Several reports on the state of the county road network show the same picture that the maintenance run has increased in recent years on this part of the road network. Several analyses also show that there are considerable differences in the quality of the road network from state to state and between state and national road networks. A 2017 Road Safety Development Report shows that the risk of being killed or seriously damaged on the county road network is 67 pst. larger than on the national road network. The Committee points out that the cost of removing thence on the county road network was estimated at about 58 billion. kr in 2014 and new studies have been carried out that estimate this lag to 59 bn. 2014-kronor. So here's a big job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1337	We still hear repeatedly in the Chamber today that before the Crown Crisis the situation for Kommune-Norge was very good. The economic starting point was good, and no municipalities were in acute crisis. We have been accused by several teams that the Central Party's description of the economic situation is black paint and is not erased correctly. Yes, I will take self-criticism that my description in the main post was not correct. It was considerably understated. Today, official figures have arrived. The KOSTRA figures are reproduced in the Municipal Report in a review today, and it turns out that there was no 44 pst. who went with a deficit. It was over half that went down in 2019. It was 179 Norwegian municipalities that made a deficit in 2019, and it is in particular the small and medium-sized municipalities that are affected. Technical calculation selection recommends 1.75 pst. For 2019, the figure is 1.9 pst. But if we subtract Oslo municipality, which has a good and solid economy, we get to 1.5 pst, so far away from what the Technical Calculations Committee recommends. There's a decrease of 2.2 pst. This means that half of Norwegian municipalities have an emergency financial situation. What has rocked Kommune-Norge in recent years is one-off income – from the Maritime Fund, from extraordinary tax revenue and the conversion of the Share Tax Act, etc. But such one-time incomes we all know that cannot be put into operation. Much is uncertain about the municipal economy next year. The only thing that's certain is that we can't expect it to be saved by extraordinary tax revenue next year. In the future, we know that the revenue from the marine funds will be greatly reduced, as a large proportion will now go to the state, and a significantly smaller share will go to the municipalities. So this isn't black paint, this is pure facts. In addition, we now see that they have to change the cost key for primary schools to finance the teachers' norm that was introduced. This means that large amounts of money are transferred from the smallest municipalities to the larger municipalities to finance the teacher's norm. There will be a new centralisation of the financial framework for the municipal sector, and even worse for small and medium-sized municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1352	It is quite unlikely to hear the Central Party talk about the coastal communities being cut off from the Maritime Fund. After the Progress Party contributed to the solution, there are actually several billions in place for the coastal communities, and it is a pity that they will get more in the future as well. I don't think any coastal municipalities feel like a cut, but in the Central Party's description of reality, it's probably nice to say it's a cut. But it's actually an addition and a strengthening of the municipal economy of the coastal municipalities. It has been very interesting to listen to the Working Party today. I think almost all of Norway has come to realize that the Council of State has said that the municipalities must keep the wheels going. He has said the same thing in March, April, May and now in June. Now, all of a sudden, the Labour Party, and Eirik Sivertsen, after listening to what we've been hearing for four months, says it was very clarifying and creates foresight for the Municipality of Norway. Finally, the Labour Party has woken up and got what everyone else has heard for a long time. Then there are two posts, and the representative Nina Sandberg comes up here and brings with him a script – which she probably has written in advance – and says exactly the same thing, that one sees that it's unseemly, what the municipalities are going to meet. The Labour Party manages in the same debate to say that it is both expeditious and pervasive, and that it is irreplaceable. The only thing that's responsible is that the Workers' Party is equal to itself, one says things like a will. Then one can in any case rewind and say that one was right, because one has different representatives who say different things. I'm very excited about what fractional leader Lauvås, who comes up after me, says – whether he shares Sandberg's turbulence or Sivertsen's explanation that it is now farfetched. It's also interesting to hear Mossleth's representative talk about the ferries as if they haven't got any more money. Going back to the income system of county councils is almost half a billion asked to consult the ferry and boat criteria. The county councils have received money. They've also generated huge profits. As a county, she pulled out More and Romesdal. Last year they went with a solid surplus while not giving priority to lowering or threatening to increase the ferry prices. There is no lack of money, but lack of priorities in the county that makes the ferry prices and the ferry uprising in More and Romesdal a fact. I'm also interested in listening to what the Center Party will say when it comes to our proposal to make money available to the ferry companies so that those who have gone into the green shift get more money. For example, the municipality of the western part of the country: will have a significant part of it because they have taken the pioneer work to the front. Will the Central Party support that proposal? Or should the Central Party leader thank the four bourgeois parties for the money, while the Central Party does not support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1363	Well then, the Progress Party is equal to itself, too, so that's the way the Labour Party and the Advance Party are a little similar. The difference is that in the Workers' Party we have a line in what we say and think, while the Advance Party now spends much of the day fighting against decisions they have voted for when they put in government. But they just have to be allowed to do that. I think the representative Trellevik used a very good word in the Chamber today, namely the word «mayday». Because when we hear that, we're going to cheer up and help – at least you're allowed to do it by the sea. Because we've heard the municipalities shout mayday – they do it three times, as you have to do – and we're trying to get help. Unfortunately, the representative Trellevik and the government do not – we have heard that today. I'm also going to say that it was clarifying now to hear the Council of State say that it is no longer a matter of investigating and perhaps and if so. No, there are guarantees, and he also says where the level should be. It was very good and very clarifying, and it is a pity that the Progress Party also got the clarification that came here today. I think the representative Bransdal hit the nail quite well on her head when she said that the municipality layout is tight, but stable. It has been, it has been stable tight for several years, and she complained a little about it, that you could get more to the municipalities. The Christian People's Party and the representative Bransdal were able to do this, but they have chosen to go into partnership with the Right and get on their knees to the Advance Party, and then it's going to be what it is. But as I said, it's a choice that the Christian People's Party has made, and we just have to respect that. Then I register that the representative Thommess is shocked and agreed to hear that the Workers' Party believes that the municipalities need more money. Yes, there should be no shock to the representative Thommessen that we have meant it. We have believed that for all these years, and we have also put on approx. Three billion. kr more to the municipalities than the government has proposed, every single year, not because we think it has been fun to do so, but because it has been necessary to strengthen the local economy since the representative Thommessen and his party have not done so. They have chosen to use the tax revenue, the community's money, on something else, they have chosen to cut heavily the property tax, which gives most to those who have the most from before. It's called distribution policy, and I'm not ashamed for a moment that I mean what I mean, and that my party thinks it means it. Then Thommess stands for his own. Finally, today's Newspaper says: «In the autumn, the politicians in the Inner Eastfold municipality must have a plan for how to cut at least 50 million kroner.» So that's what they're part of the local government in the Inner Eastfold municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1383	In this debate, it is also important to discuss more than just the economic framework, although they are fundamental. The municipalities have many types of responsibility, and I want to focus a little on flooding and race as a result of climate change, which affects security, everyday life and the economy of many communities – for business, for individuals and for families. These days we've been told that there might be flooding, perhaps extreme weather, in several parts of the country. Many types of flooding and racial damage cannot be repaired, but they can be prevented, and this government's failed efforts to prevent and allow the means to prevent racial and flood damage have led to a major aftermath. The government's proposal to allow this area is not sufficient to fix the problem. Right now, the government has a historic possibility to put a force on preventive hedging, because now there is a need for a job, now there is a need for activities in the world of work and the economy to keep it going. So when the Center Party suggests an additional 100 million. In our alternative revised national budget, we hope to be very supportive. This is not only about securing lives and values, but also about ensuring security for people throughout Norway. The financial framework of the government for municipalities and county councils is not in any way sufficient, and it has a very good look in the hall today. Even without the extra costs imposed by the Coronapandemy on Kommune-Noreg, there is a warning of sinking. The pressure from the government on mergers should have been followed up with economics, so that they merged the municipalities or the counties got a good economy. The President himself attended a meeting with the County of Westland yesterday, where it is stipulated that one must save 500 million. kr annually until 2024, one must cut SEK 2.7 billion. SEK in planned investments up to 2023. One does not need to be a rocket scientist to realize that there will be a central service provision in the new state – and probably most in the districts, because even if more than 600 million have now been lost. In terms of income from public transport in Bergen, it is hardly possible to stop public transport in Bergen as a response to the challenges, rather to cut supply either in the old Sogn and Fjordane, in Sunnhordland or in the inner Hardanger. I think that now the government has to listen, meet people and balance the economy so that one avoids big cuts in the service supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1395	I want to give honor to Eirik Sivertsen, who uses the word word shift with State Council Astrup to clarify things that he experienced as unclear in the setting of the proposition. He gained support for the understanding he has of the government's policy, by the representative Stein Erik Lauvås while he was in the pulpit in town. I really hope that the Workers' Party will also be able to support the Government Party and the Advance Party on how to follow up the municipal sector, when it appears that the starting point of the opposition really falls on stone ground and it is quite impossible to follow up the municipalities objectively with what is in the opposition's proposal. The representative Sivertsen also had about the free income of the municipalities. Free income will be changed quickly over time. In 2011, for example, when the Stoltenberg government went away from ear-marked funds to kindergartens and on to free incomes, the free revenues of course increase. In 2018, as the representative Stein Erik Lauvås mentioned, it was budgeted with zero increases in free revenues. In fact, the 2018 accounts show an increase in free income. There's evidence that we have to be a little careful when we're studying the budget, because there's no fascination with how it works. As I said, we do not know the municipalities' figures for 2019, nor for 2020. So this can change quickly. From this point of view, it was very good to hear from the representative, Gåsemyr, the Staalese, about the turbulence that the Labour Party has for the operating result of the local government sector. If the operating results over time show a negative development, there is every reason to follow closely. One should do that. You might want to select some municipalities and follow them over time, because there are good reasons why you have a negative operating result over time. That it can happen from one year to another may be natural, but it gives cause for concern when it happens over time. The ones I've been following on, laboring with moving away, no start-up of new business and getting attractive communities that generate growth. They also labor with their structural costs. If you look at how they're accounting for their expenses, you'll see that they have structural costs, whether they're dealing with a school structure that's out-of-date and old-fashioned, or they're dealing with the municipal structure. As Olemic Thommessen said, a municipality house has a structural cost. It has the head of the municipality, the councillor, the spokesperson and the local government. So there's good reason to focus on the municipal structure in the coming years. The representative, Heidi Greni, was concerned that the economy of the county municipalities was poor, especially in the change of lines on the West. Liv Signe Navarsete was also inside it in his post: they're heading towards a deficit of 700 million. kr! There's an outrage without an equal in the West state. [[President clubs again]] Debt on the State
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1410	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1415	I'll have to draw myself one more time, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1420	That's true, but the time's up now. Arne Nävra, please. No, I'm sorry. Karin Andersen, please! [[Muntering in the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1427	As far as guarantees are concerned, experience has taught me that they should be written, on a paper and be adopted. There is nothing of what has been said here in the hall today, that is. The decisions are contrary to wool and are unclear. I hear again that there were eight years in government for the red-greens. Now this government has been sitting for seven years. Before the Coronacrise this year, I think you'd used 234 billion. kr more of the oil fund than we used. Then it is no wonder that you have spent some of that money for some reason and have not thrown all the money out of the window or given it to the richest. The fact that some more money has come into the way and the local government sector should then be lacking. For SV, it's a value choice that we want to strengthen the community more. We do it because we believe that's what takes us safest into the future. I hear that the representative Thommessen believes it is short-sighted to ensure that private business now, to enable the municipalities to invest in welfare technology and universal design, which will prepare them for the future and make it more efficient. I hear that it is short-term to give room for investment in e.g. decentralised higher education, which SV has called for, and which is absolutely necessary to ensure the competences needed by both the local and private sectors in the future. We want to make long-term and good investments – as opposed to the Right, which also distribute tax credits in the crisis package at the property tax, but they cannot point to a single job created by it. The billions of SV put on the table for the local government sector, both now and the next year, become jobs and the development of what everyone says is important, for example. development of broadband, money for racial protection and money for better roads in rural areas. We have a district minister who draws E18 into Oslo, a gigantic motorway project, as the most important thing for the districts. It's not that. It is the ways of use in the counties and municipalities that are important, and we put money on the table for it. There will also be many jobs in the districts. There are companies that are now struggling to keep the wheels running because the municipalities, with the uncertainty that is now, have to put a lot of projects on ice. They can't afford and can't take the chance to get what's been so important right now. This is where, in this crisis, we could have used the municipal sector as a flood protection against increased unemployment and made changes in the public sector that had modernised it and made us better able to meet the future, both population and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1442	It didn't matter at all that the president called the representative Andersen of the representative Nävra, because we mean very much the same thing, as far as I can understand. I will again talk a little about the expenses of county councils for transportation. It is an important and precious field for county municipalities. We have a tendency here in the hall to transfer more and more tasks to the county. Many of them are good, many of them support SV, but that is not enough money. We now look at the field after field. We see it at the fishing ports. Many municipalities will almost not take over the fishing ports. We're looking at the introduction of zero emission requirements on the ferries. There's not enough money on the way. Then they've also transferred the FOT routes. We'll see how it works. We grant state-owned ferry operations. It is covered by the free resources of the county, as it is called, and these have been reduced in recent years. And at the top of this, the decision of the Storting comes, two or three times, that we should have zero emissions on the ferries if that's possible – and now it's possible. Of course we do. It's a fantastic development that's happened. But it's got to go with money. And as far as I've seen, there's only a few very few parties, and SV is one of them, which leaves it with money. We've been proposing about 300 million for years. kr extra on state budgets to phase in the electricity ferries. Something else is almost unreasonable. I have said several times here from the pulpit that we are adopting things where there is no money on the load. What, then, are the county councils going to cut if they don't have funds? What in the world are they going to cut at? There are very few people who say anything about this from the pulpit. Should they cut in high school if it's tight? Should they cut the county roads? Now it has been said many times here from the pulpit in this debate that we have a maintenance run of between 30 and 40 billion. NOK, or maybe it's 50 billion. kr, on the county roads, I won't go into that any more. Or is it the way we often see now that they have to cut off the ferries so that the districts suffer? We have seen that the county council in Troms and Finnmark had to stop in many calls to islands that have very few permanent residents. That's as far as it went. Then it's like that. It's going to go beyond something. So there has been starvation of the counties over the last few years, and especially for those who have many boat and ferry services, such as Hordaland and More and Romesdal. This is a lot of money. It has been debatable from the government parties, but Menon Economics, which we refer to in the vote, has estimated that the county councils get an extra cost of 468 million. NOK 2024, which is actually quite significant.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1453	Today's debate on the municipal bill and the revised national budget is about the economic situation in municipalities is precarious or not – with the government on the one hand and the municipalities and the opposition on the other. But such a debate steers states and municipalities towards internal financial management – instead of a debate on task-solving. We should have had a debate on what tasks will be done in the counties and municipalities in a time of crisis, and how funding can secure this. State and local authorities can be at the heart of the counter-cyclical policy that should be launched to sustain private business and get through the crisis. Many small entrepreneurs are ready. Many of them lack assignments and should be set up to upgrade both municipal and county roads. Here we can get people working while we can get a safer path and do something about the big aftertaste. It does not help if a permit has been granted for a few more dollars to the county authorities when there is no difference between the different counties on how much they have. Only tunnel regulations and other requirements that the Storting has given take much more than the growth that is there, which means that one actually does not have the means to take this up. So to the representative Trellevik: Yes, Western states have challenges. They've faced the electrification of ferries, they've strengthened public traffic. It is good that they have received some funds for the ferry traffic, but it is not a third party of what they have said they need to compensate for the extra cost that lies there. Now there is a possibility to electrify speedboats, but cannot start it. The story says they want to, but they don't want to be in and finance it – at least not the majority in Stortinget. In fact, if the county is to be able to deal with this problem, they have to get funds based on the number of kilometres of roads they have, and the challenges that lie there. It is the only way to ensure that a person is given a safe and good path, but then we, as big politicians, must also be willing to give priority to life and health first. So a little visit to the representative Njåstad and the Progress Party, who has been so busy with self-government in the municipalities: it only applies to a little bit on the road. When it comes to property taxes, they are very concerned that the municipalities are not going to get their own decisions. So they're not completely consistent either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1466	There has been a lot of talk in the debate, but there are still some things I would like to comment on. We in the Right are actually also concerned with strong local self-government, and it was also the Council of State Hofstad Greece within the exchange of lines. Together, government parties have made a great deal of money in this area in recent years. From 2013 to 2020, municipalities received full or partial support in 80 pst. of the objections raised by the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation. Under the red-green government, the number was 42 pst. It's the municipalities that know the local conditions best, and I'm glad that we have a government that sees it, and that strengthens local democracy in that context. Municipalities and county councils are responsible for many large and important service areas, and the proposition comments that it mainly goes well across the country. The release of resources that can provide citizens with more and better services requires significant conversion and efficiency efforts in the sector. I think it deserves to be mentioned that in the ten-year period 2008–2018, efficiency has increased by 0.25 pst. per year in the kindergarten, primary school, care and care sectors. Our government has been concerned about it and will still be. It frees resources that will benefit citizens in the form of new and better services in the next round. Throughout this debate, we have heard from the opposition that municipalities have to cut into critical services such as school, kindergarten and care for the elderly – yes, there is even talk of starvation. But good financial management depends not only on transfers, but also on households with funds. It sounds pretty hollow when the Red-Green City Council in Oslo complains that they are not getting enough money from the government to increased costs associated with the Korona, while they want to spend 65 million. NOK to buy a private kindergarten. Is it good financial management and priority? Finally, as the representative, Pettersen, I would also like to say that I am pleased that the Stortinget is now gathering about the continued designation of volunteer centres. The resources of the voluntary centres provide predictability and shall do so, and as much as possible shall go to those who need it the most. I am very pleased with the good cooperation that has been in this matter, and that we are now continuing the work to which the High Social Minister Wenche Frogn Selleg inspired 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1479	27 pst. the Nordic population does not have access to modern broadband. They do not have access to critical infrastructure. There were clearly many places under the Koronakrisa, when people had home offices while the kids had home school. When the minister gets questions about the lack of modern broadband, she always shows that 98 pst. of the population has it. It's the national number, and it's used to hide the realities. In Northland, it's only 73 pst. by the people with access to modern broadband, and worse still, in Uppland, the country has the worst broadband coverage in the country. And you actually shouldn't be far from the center of the nine largest city municipalities in the country until people are struggling with broadband and coverage. I heard the district minister in his post talked about how great it is just that we get 5G. The vision has a very bismach for all those who don't have 3G today – those who can't talk on the phone outside their house, those who depend on broadband from Telenor and the copper network. There are many of them, but the copper network is supposed to be phased out and shut down. To replace it, there are a lot of people who get Telenor's home-based mobile broadband networks. In fact, it is too poor for municipalities receiving government grants for broadband construction to be able to use those funds. It is disappointing that it is what is offered when the copper network is phased out. It's more expensive, and it's so bad that Nkom doesn't recommend it. I know about many viable branches – e.g. Vassbotn, Vassbotnfjell and Evenesdalen in the municipality of Saltdal, where there are 52 households, recreational homes, cabins, 27 schoolchildren – who don't get anyone to expand the broadband despite subsidies. The district minister knows advice: she recommends cutting someone out. That's why it's so hard to understand the district minister's intention. Her problem should be to get everyone with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1490	There are major challenges in our county municipalities during the day – great. And there are also major concerns. Unfortunately, the government does not reassure the municipalities with its draft revised budget, because it has now become very difficult for many municipalities to maintain their services. This is primarily due to the pre-corona crisis, such as the emergence of new non-money tasks, increased efficiency requirements, limited resources in the context of regional reform and the conversion of the income system. Then the Korona crisis has come up with this. I can exemplify from my own home state, Vestfold and Telemark. Before the Korona crisis, Vestfold and Telemark already had a very limited economic space as a result of a reduction in framework grants, a reduction in tax revenues and a reduction in revenue from the transfer of Svelvik to the Gulf. In addition, the county council has been allocated new tasks justified by a changed demographic cost and an annual requirement for efficiency improvement of 0,5 pst. In total, this has now resulted in a weakened economic space of more than 350 million. kr. In addition, a lower number of inhabitants than previously predicted by the SSB results in lower revenues, while investment measures are implemented and adapted to provide services to an expected increase in the population. The challenge is that capacity levels are tied to investments in schools, construction and roads, and these costs cannot be reduced in the short term. They can't. At the top of this, the consequences of the corona, with failing tax revenues and defaults in dental and public transport, which have not been well signaled to be compensated. For Westfold and Telemark, there is likely to be an income loss of between 110 million. SEK and 150 million. kr. Overall, this county presents significant challenges. It won't be easy for them to take down some offer as quickly as all of these economic challenges I've now faced will mean that unfortunately they have to do it, but as they should escape. When there is no more money for the states in the revised budget of the government and the supporting party Progress Party and also better compensation for loss of income as a result of the Korona crisis – what are we going to do? For Vestfold and Telemark County Municipality, it now means extreme, rigid priorities that go beyond a county road network that already has an insanely large maintenance seat. Had the Central Party's alternative revised budget of 1 billion dollars. kr only until the county roads were in place, the situation would be much, much better. I have to say I really hope and believe that the government parties and the support party The Progress Party in the work of the State Budget for 2021 is doing the job of getting involved in how we are now starving feeders – the word starving feeders must be used in this situation – the county councils by day, and at least do something about it, even though they obviously won't do anything about it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1518	I have to go one round to the volunteer centers. The centre party has been fighting for a long time to keep today's funding of volunteer agencies, and now, fortunately, the Christian People's Party has put down the foothold of the centralization that was announced. I must thank Mr Bransdal very much for that. I had almost lost hope that we would recover this, after former Minister of State for the State of Malta completely rejected the fact that the Right would look at the volunteer centres again, and that they would be incorporated from 2021. I was happy when there was an overall committee in the vote – and am surprised when the parties now announce that they no longer support the vote, but promote their own proposal. No one has come up with any reason why they're doing it this way, and I hope we can hear that, because it's quite special when the Storting should govern in detail how to follow up a unanimous decision on big business. What is extra special is that it is now the government parties that want to have with the Storting on a detailed management of which department this is to be followed up. It is up to the government to follow up a decision and how they will have the various tasks allocated to the departments, but now the government parties are to leave the joint proposal of the committee, and then they are to instruct the government in detail, so that it is now to be transferred to the Ministry of Culture from 2021. We in the Central Party may be naive, but we still have faith that the Minister of State is able to implement this decision, and we are going to vote in favour of Decision II, as it says in the committee's vote. So a visit to the representative Thommess, because he accused us of just calling for money and not looking at the reform – and not least looking at more community mergers, because it would probably also solve the financial challenges in the municipal sector: then I wonder if the representative Thommess has read the newspapers lately, and I am absolutely convinced that he does not get the same e-mails that I get, because it is especially merged municipalities that now say that economic development is in no way as they were suggested before the municipal merger. The aggregation costs are much larger than they have been covered, large distance disadvantages make them unable to take out the efficiency gain, and the budgeting process is more demanding in the merged municipality than it was in the other municipalities before.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1531	The extent of care services has increased over time, and municipalities have continued to make considerable efforts to combat the health consequences of the coronary epidemic. At the same time, the municipality should ensure that its inhabitants can get the services they depend on every day. It has been a turn in the direction that more home-based care services have been provided. It's desirable. We become several older people, especially in the age group over 90, but there has also been a strong increase in the number of young people, under 67. The government is busy with municipalities having a good and prosperous municipal economy, and from mid-March until 7 April, the Stortinget decided in several rounds to increase the ownership of the municipal sector in a total of 6.5 billion. kr. I want to focus on quality reform Life all my life. It shall help older people to master their lives longer and to ensure that they receive good help when needed, that relatives can contribute without being worn out, and that adding can make better use of their skills in the services. We need a more age-friendly Norway, and the municipalities are using the key. It has been absolutely essential that they themselves have our own and are active contributors to this reform work. Together, we as society need to find new, innovative solutions to the qualitative challenges associated with activity and community, food and meal, health care and the context and transition of services. In today's debate, the concerns of the red-green rises are in order, but is it really the way we best meet the challenges we face? I mean, futures meet best with futures. Whether a get a good life or a good old age should not be random, it should be a result of good resource use. For that to happen, we are forced to ensure that all good forces escape. In fact, cooperation cannot be decided; it is necessary to develop. The work of realising the patient’s health service is developed by the government in a resilient and good way, through involvement and through proper resource use.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1550	The municipal bill and RNB are the main documents of the municipal sector, and many municipalities and counties are concerned about the economic prospects in the light of the corona crisis. There are clear feedback from many municipalities, from KS and organisations, from my own municipality, Orkland Municipality, which is a newly merged municipality, and not least from Trøndelag County that the State has to compensate for loss of income and additional expenditure, so that they can provide a good welfare offer to their inhabitants and ensure good infrastructure such as roads and broadband. It is the municipalities and county councils that provide services to residents of the country in kindergarten, school, health and care for the elderly. Employees in secondary schools, primary schools, hospitals and kindergartens have been in the midst of this crisis and have worked hard to ensure that everyone feels safe and secure – people who live and live their lives in cities, alleys, coasts, mountains and fjords, where culture, sport and volunteering are important communities and a good upbringing for children and young people and adults and older people. All these areas mean a lot to people. It is important that all employees — cleaners, youth workers, unskilled, skilled, help nurses, nurses, teachers, etc. — are the areas seriously affected by the coronary crisis. – be valued and bet on. They need security in a demanding time and an uncertain future. Then I am surprised that the position and the government parties think it is entirely too generous that the Workers' Party and the opposition parties want to give more money to the local government sector, which is in the midst of this crisis and which is responsible for these welfare services. A thousand new teaching places in the municipalities also proposed the Workers' Party. We are concerned about the exceptional situation in the country and what challenges it poses for many high school graduates. The Labour Party believes that state, county and local authorities – together with industry – must take responsibility for completing their education as much as possible. That is why the Workers' Party has set aside 170 million. kr in this budget in order to strengthen this. Enterprises taking in additional apprentices may receive 70000 in support at the top of the ordinary apprenticeship grant. This will produce an effect in the form of 2,500 new apprenticeships. Priority shall be given to health, care and growth because there is a high need for professionals and it is essential that the recruitment of new healthcare professionals does not stop. I'm coming back with a new post, for the time being.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1563	The representative of Ove Trellevik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1568	Time passed for me too. I want to return to the county council of Westland and the misrule of the Central Party. So they have sold two further schools for a sock and nothing to the municipalities, so that the new county now has to build a whole new further school. They have introduced school food, they have provided a lot of psychologists, and they have ribbed the small municipalities out in the district and centralized them to the county council – and they have flooded the municipalities. And these are non-statutory services. So we're going to talk about the Center Party, and we're going to give you a description of how a food can feed the municipalities. I just can't find myself in that rhetoric. They have to read the accounts of the Western county, and the day they understand the accounting, I'm going to give them more money, but not before.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1577	The President would point out that one should not be presumptuous that the representatives of bigots do not understand matters, and that one should perhaps not express exactly that from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1582	I hope I understand this point, then. This applies to the device of the charging system for the farming industry. It also means a lot to the local government's economy. Breeding is important for many coastal communities. That's what we have to say. It has an impact on nutrition and housing in coastal districts. But then it is that the enormous growth that has been in the farming industry in recent years has many shadow pages that we have to take care of. There are serious environmental problems, animal welfare problems and value-sharing problems. It is a well-known case, at least for members of the Business Committee, that SV has long wanted a different model of income from the farming industry and the organisation of the Maritime Fund. Distribution of revenue from the auctioning of new concessions and any biomass increase in the aquaculture industry in 2020 is not reasonable on the basis of two factors, as we see it. One is that it stimulates undisturbed growth in an industry that sorely needs environmental requirements and frameworks. The second is that the system now only generates revenue from new concessions and is therefore completely unpredictable to the municipalities. The scheme is proposed to be amended in the revised national budget for 2020, which means that the payment to the Maritime Fund is modified. The government's proposal is to distribute the payment by 75 pst. to the State and 25 pst. to the Maritime Fund. Today the distribution is almost reversed. This, of course, will have a major impact on the income of municipalities. SV has proposed a completely different model here, which both ensures that we keep the industry a little bit in mind, so to speak, and steers it in an environmentally sustainable direction, ensuring that the value of the farming rights benefits the community. Point one: Concessions shall be distributed free of charge but shall be competitive on the best environmental solutions, emissions, lice and diseases, escape against zero and better animal welfare. That's where it's going to be competitive. Point two: Municipalities will receive income from the use of land and from kilograms of fish produced. So we want a production fee, and therefore SV is happy that the government finally gets on the track and refers to a separate proposal to introduce a production fee of 40 øre kilos – which is a good start, we get in SV si. But this will only be paid out in 2022, as far as we have understood, and does not fully replace the auctioning system that sponsors growth in a low sustainable industry. We believe that such major changes must take place gradually, so that the municipalities have something to do with – i.e. that it must be a little more predictable. Therefore, SV will not support the government's proposal. We believe that the municipalities in 2020 and 2021 should receive the revenues after the sale of concessions according to today's model, before the production fee is paid from 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1593	Since the president says that the representatives understand the issues they are debating, I base it, but perhaps some representatives are trying to mislead the people into not understanding. Then I'm thinking of SV, which gives the impression that the farm fund will be smaller next year because the percentage goes down, but it's better to get 25 pst. of a very high amount than getting 80 pst. of a lower amount. In any case, the fact is that coastal communities receive more money this year than they have been given before, and that the Stortinge makes a sensible decision with coastal communities after the Progress Party negotiates. I hope that a non-wild population by giving the impression that this is small. The reason for my drawing was the Center Party talking about volunteers and the fact that the plural parties have made a loose proposal in the hall. I'll try to explain why we did that. That's because we want to earmark the resources and write it in the notes. When one goes into the proposal for Decision II that we're in, it says that they are distributed separately, i.e., table c above the municipal council. There are funds that are free of the municipalities, legally speaking. State has no means to verify what municipalities have used this money for. There is no reporting system for the use of specifically allocated money. So we want to change it to an ear-tagged addition. We know that the volunteer is under the Ministry of Culture. It's the ones that have ear-marked resources system in that sector. So that's going to put that right there. I think the volunteers are happy with the decision we are making today. A crown from Abid Raja is as good as a crown from Nikolai Astrup to the volunteer. The most important thing is that the money is targeted and ear-marked. Therefore, I believe the intention of everyone in the hall is that a vote for the loose proposal for a is busy with ear marking, as we suggest. Finally, I should like to offer a little greeting to the County of Westland, which has debated our lot today, at the latest at the presence of the representative Trellevik. He used words as "uncontrollable". I didn't want to use that exact word, but I also illustrated that a lot of the explanation is that the one part of the combination spent the money before a hit. It'll be like someone entering into marriage, where the one party spends all the money before the wedding. Then you can't come back and complain that you can't afford to buy a new sofa or make investments in marriage, when you spend your money on other things first. There's a part of the explanation. The representative Navarsete says the county municipality of Westland will cut in the district. I'd like to think about it when we see how they behave with Central Party states. So they're putting down a bookboat, which is a supply in the district of children who get books and culture on the islands and in the countryside, to big protests from the whole county community. They don't understand what the Center Party is doing. I think the representative of Navarsete knows more about how the state spokesmen think than we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1606	The reason why I also take the floor was the key to volunteering. I would like to thank you for all the good words that have come both to me and not least to the volunteers. This is the best basis for the volunteer centres around the country to continue the good work they are already doing. It's just creativity that hinders what a volunteer can engage in, because here you have a great connection between the ideal, private and public, and that's very good. I hear that it is being problematised which chapter it should be in the budget. For me, it is totally secondary, because it was so difficult to get that allocation to volunteer centres, is that it has been part of the income system. If we make the change that is being made now, the volunteer centres are being taken out of the income system and earmarked where they are. It will protect the volunteers in the future. I would like to make a very bold request to vote on the resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1613	The representative Trellevik had a violent tirade about the Western County Municipality and the economy there. It was a pure "wrong rule," he said. I do not think the representative Trellevik has followed when there has been a consultation on the challenges facing Western states in terms of the economy, because their major challenge lies in public transport now in relation to the Korona, and it is particularly on the boat and ferry in connection with the fact that they have done what the Stortinget has ordered them to do, namely to invest in green boat and ferry traffic, which is heavily underfunded by Stortinget. It is a new task that Stortinget has given to the county councils without having been financed. The big challenges that come to hundreds of millions in exceedances of what they get to finance the ferry business, and what they need to use to make it work. I also want to distance myself from Trellevik's claim that school food and staff psychologists are clean waste and unnecessary investment in a county. I do not know the county council of Westland well enough to say that the psychologists have nothing to do, but I believe that it is an assessment that the county council has made based on a need and not because they have any money that they absolutely had to waste. Then we can't have a discussion here without being a round of regional reform. The centre party was opposed to the regional reform when the coercive mergers were carried out. We do not share the government's view that larger regions will lead to better services for the inhabitants. There is no evidence that bundling will provide better services. It suggests, so far, that there will be more heavy-duty services, and that there will be much more bureaucratic ones. We believe that the task assignment to the county councils in the context of the reform does not defend either the resource use or the coercion that has been used. Now we have experienced that constantly new tasks that were proposed will be cancelled. Nor can I be sure that the tasks they have been given are fully funded. One of the objectives of the reform was to strengthen the regional maritime governance. Now we have experienced that the exact opposite has happened. The county councils have now been forced to introduce free school choices. This means that many of them are afraid that some classes need to be laid down, and that some schools need to be laid down – i.e. more state governance and less freedom for the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1624	One of the things that hasn't been talked about so much in this debate is the public schools. The working party is very concerned with public schools, which have a very long history, and the application rates for public schools are larger than ever. In Norway, over 100 public schools are located around our country. Many are now uncertain about what happens to the harvest, and many are left without income base in the summer. The government delivers nothing in public schools in its revised national budget. The working party is concerned that there are no assurances there that public high schools will be covered by their losses in connection with the coronary apathy or whether they will be able to start up with normal operation from the autumn of the year. The Labour Party calls on the government to pay particular attention to the overall loss of income of public higher education schools, and indicates that public higher education schools have had an increasing search and are a valuable offer for many young people around the country. The working party is concerned that the position of public high schools is not weakened as a result of the coronary crisis. Many public schools have been deprived of the opportunity to have short courses, rent out premises, weddings, birthdays, confirmations and other things this summer because of this crisis. Therefore, the Workers' Party promotes a clear order to the Council of State to deliver on this and to provide predictability to public schools through a request decision: ‘The government is asking the government to follow closely the economic situation of public schools and to assess its own grants to public schools in order to offer activities and the possibility to build competences for several target groups.’ A lot of people have been involved with volunteering. Volunteering is a peculiar feature of Norway — good work — and it is the people who stand up for each other. In Norway, there are 352 municipalities with volunteer centres. Over the past 30 years, a unique competence has been built on local volunteering, and the centres organise over 50,000 volunteers, most of whom provide time for activities and actions aimed at children, young people and the elderly, regardless of ethnicity, gender and other traditional dividing lines. The centres are open to all and are Norway's main concern in developing local solutions to national challenges, in cooperation with both local and nation-wide organisations, as well as municipalities. The government has created considerable uncertainty, especially with the government council from the Left Ministry of Culture. The change in the criteria for funding to be part of the population grant would contribute to a large cut in the budgets of more than half of the country’s central banks. Luckily, as many have said, the Christian People's Party has listened to the volunteers, listened to the critical voices, so that there is no majority for these changes that the government and the Left have stood for. Our district minister should certainly have stood on the barricades outside here and acted for the volunteer and the importance of the volunteer centres. They're important, because they're going to help bind us together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1637	I have followed the debate on the Maritime Fund with interest and will make some comments to it. It is important to be aware that when it was decided that the distribution between the municipalities and the state would be 80 pst. to the municipalities and 20 pst. to the state, it was not the Advance Party and the Right that stood in front of it. It was the big crowd consisting of the Center Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Labour Party who forced it into place. In the spring, the government has proposed to cut and take 2 billion. kr from the farming communities, from coastal municipalities, in 2020 and 2021 compared to the existing model would have given. It would be wrong to say that because of the size of the payments, this is not taking any money. Well, it's taking money that you have a right to. No governmental quantum discount has been added to the current model, which has changed by the government itself. I record that with the help of the supporting party Progress Party, this has gone from the state taking 2 billion. kr from the local authorities until they only take 750 million. kr. But 750 million. kr is money, too. A municipality like Austevoll, which has 1.66 pst. by biomass in the country, between 2020 and 2021 will lose 12.45 million. kr with the arrangement that the Progress Party is in, the money they would have received if one had left the current scheme. When it applies to the scheme after 2022, I am pleased that there is support for and a majority for a production fee, but it is as it is often with this government when it is to be given money to the districts: one should give with one hand, and then one should take with the other. The reality is that one gives millions in production fees, but one takes billions through income on growth by reducing their share from 80 pst. until 25 pst. I hope that battle is not lost, that battle is lost. I hope that the district interests stand up and protest against the government's government's government's commitment to this matter, with the Support Party's Advance Party. At least one must be able to expect that current arrangements and agreements will be held and that they will not be broken just to get the budgets to go together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1650	The representative, Toril Eidsheim, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1655	In Norway, we have had major investments in digital infrastructure: €12.2 billion. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. Broadband expansion is faster than ever, and the digitisation of the public sector ensures that people get a simpler life, completely independent of where they live. One hears little about what the Center Party thinks about digitisation beyond broadband expansion. In the change of line today, the Senterpartiet had to respond to their estimates for government contributions, and how they perceive that this model should provide an incentive for rapid 5G expansion. With respect, I have to say that today I wonder a little bit about whether the Center Party actually understands this development, when we see that 5G is going to take over for today's separate network.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1662	Several of the speakers today have been involved in the almost revolutionary development of ferry traffic, which has become more and more electrical. Now both hydrogen and other non-emission fuels must also be tested to make ferry traffic completely climate friendly. How have we done this? The efforts of municipalities and county councils have not been insignificant. The politicians who have been capable and forward-looking. This has also happened because there are bidding rounds and outsourcing of the operator's responsibilities around. That's why we've done this. Not least we have also had enthusiastic business leaders who have seen that this has been something they could bet on in their business, considering the green shift. My example is Siemens in Trondheim, which has built a heavy battery factory for connecting and connecting battery packs to this industry, and which has created a great number of jobs and has become the big ‘hub’ for Siemens’ battery technology all over Europe. Now we're going to go to speedboats, because now the tenders for them are going to start. Climate money and Enova money have been supported by county municipalities, which have been drivers of this. It has been a very good job. I have great expectations. This suggests that this time business becomes even more involved and even better able to deliver these boats, not only nationally but also internationally. Here this can be tested and then continued to the large international market. There isn't a single electric speedboat today. It's a difficult market to deal with. There have been slightly different debates on ferry prices and arrangements that have been implemented. In Trøndelag we have tried AutoPASS for many years now, including on the ferries. It has been a success, not only for the cars and passengers, but also for the climate, because you have had a lot more interaction because it is the car that is being loaded, not the passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1675	It was the representative of Njåstad who got me to take the word again. If the District Salibi of the Progress Party is that they now went in to take care of the bookboat, it is good – we want the bookboat. But I myself have a seat in the county, and we have made the bookboat many times. I can't believe that the Progress Party has had a single post that that bookboat was important – as long as I was with him anyway – as long as we secure him. I thought it was a pity that one couldn't do it, but there were others here who just took up how irresponsible one was when a messed up with the economy. For a state that can't cover public traffic, ferry traffic, speedboats, can't follow up the maintenance on the state roads, it asks what's responsible: to keep a bookboat that needs to be renewed for quite a few million to get to a new one, or at least to take a break and see how one can do this in view of all the other things. The challenge is – and this is collective – that one believed that with the Central Party leaders, public transport in the districts would be shut down, not in central districts. I want to see the politicians who say not to have a good public transport in the centre of Bergen, and it has a lot to do even if the traffic has fallen into these corona times – one has reduced something, but one is forced to have an offer that allows people to stay, and I actually thought that everyone was a few that one must have. But in addition, we must have safe and decent public transport, including in the district. Then one actually depends on the fact that it's an economy that hangs together, and then one has to start to be proved on both the county road and traffic in view of the challenges one has in its state, and not at one rate for all the county municipalities. It's great if the Progress Party also wants to join and fight more for the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1684	It was demanding for the municipalities and the counties to meet the ends before the coronary crisis occurred. It was demanding for School-Norway to introduce new measures and curricula even before the Korona crisis. With the government budget and the current state of society, it will be cut in services near people in the whole country, both in the municipalities and in the counties. School-Norway has been on the verge of getting involved in measures and changes in operations on an ongoing basis this spring. So this was before the biggest change in School-Norway, in recent times, has to be put in place, namely new curricula. There is a question for many how teachers should be equipped to teach and have good training with new curricula and meet the expectations that students across the country now have of new curricula — they have great expectations. In the case of higher education provision, there is no doubt that the growth in the state budget is not close to meeting the increased expenditure facing the states. An exposure from the Centre Party beyond the copper network to digitisation is requested. Then I just want to show that the education committee resigned, and we adopted here in the Stortinget on Monday, the setting that went on the competence reform. There we had, among others. a broad focus on knowledge and digital competence. It is just an important part of the promise to use 5G and its tools, instruments and capabilities. That's what I wanted to add to the debate. Otherwise, there is no doubt that with the Central Party's alternative budget and efforts for Municipality-Norway things had looked very different. I think School-Norway would have been far better equipped to meet the changes they're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1695	To the representative of Eidsheim, I just have to admit that I'm probably terribly thin. It's not the first time I've been thin with data, but that's exactly what I thought I might have understood. Is the question that we have too little money for broadband? The centre has a total allocation of 500 million, along with what's already inside. kr, and that is what the ceiling can be given for this according to international legislation. Or is it that we don't realize that broadband is old-fashioned now, that we're going to go to 5G? If that's the case, I must wonder why the government then has broadband appropriations in its budget – if it's so hugely old-fashioned. What's the new technology in the future, I don't think there's any of us in the hall here who can predict, at least not in the long term. But now that you've invested in 5G expansion, in addition to a small broadband bet, you might expect that that bet came first in the areas of the country where it's not broadband coverage from before, but no then, the bet starts where it's the best coverage from before. So, in the case of regional development, for the corona has well updated the importance of regional development and an active regional development work, both on the part of the counties and on the part of the municipalities, more than ever. But instruments are missing. Regional development funds have been halved. The broadband funds cover only a fraction of what is required. The highways have been down-prioritized throughout this government. The means used for transport have been prioritised on national roads and not on county roads. That's why the Center Party, this year as well as next year, has proposed 1 billion. kr extra in a county road package, to have a lift for the county road maintenance – because it is not the case that the economic development is taking place along the E6 or along the E18. Workplaces are located in the district and it does not help if the main artery is not working if you do not get into the highways. So the plating has to be multiplied. Competences adapted to the needs of business and local authorities are important. Therefore, we should maintain and further develop a decentralised education offer, and we will notify that we will support SV's proposal No. 21, precisely because an education offer near people and an education offer adapted to local business and the needs of municipalities are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1708	Representatives Trellevik and Njåstad fired an ointment against the Center Party and the government of Westland, which cannot be denied. Jeppe drank, but why did Jeppe drink, it's something called. Sogn and Fjordane County were before the merger with Hordaland – before this government jumped to the Left and had them force through a regional reform that neither the Right nor the Progress Party was really for, as far as I know – one of the richest county municipalities in the country, and had great incomes and order in the economy. After the merger, with great promises of more money and big tasks, sit one on the bar and cut and cut and cut. It's been more bureaucratic, it's been a lot, much longer to the decision point, much longer to get in touch with the county council. Sogn and Fjordane County was a close county municipality with which most people actually had a good relationship – it showed all the studies. We were forced into free schooling, which could be a disaster for Sogn and Fjordane, and we were forced into a way of operating that is adapted to the Bergen and the large areas and much less adapted to scattered areas and smaller towns. So what have we started? ROBEK-warning from the Ministry of Local Affairs in April – I guess that's the last we've got. And then some outcomes to the bookboat, and that's interesting. You can use the right mouse button to put the bookboat down. The Progress Party did not have funding for its proposal, one would use reduced borrowings for funding. It's air money. But populism delivers, here is one on Dagsrevyen and also on Stortinget's pulpit and chatter as if one's burned for this bookboat that you've never cared about, neither in Sogn and Fjordane in its time, nor in Hordaland. To the Right and the Progress Party – well, right now, when the Progress Party has left the government, and they don't acknowledge what they were in government either, they're a supporting party, but they're still going to be opposition, so to the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, I would say, bring the money. Give me the chores. It's nothing. It has been the mountain that bore a mouse. It's a failed regional reform that they've forced through, and that makes a lot of us get much worse services than we had before, and it's going to get worse as time goes on. So instead of standing on this pulpit and grumbling over those who are actually trying to do a real job of providing good supplies to the inhabitants, they're getting generous and bringing funding to both the states and the municipalities that are going to let go of what's a dubious cutlist at every single budget, and that's going to be the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1719	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1724	In the Korona crisis, it has been shown who has social critical functions. Many of them are low-paid, and many jobs in the municipal sector. There should be a framework now to give them a paylift, but I record that the government and the majority are not interested in it. SV has chosen to prioritise the municipal sector, and we do so because we want good quality and modern municipalities and county municipalities with good child protection and services for people with developmental disabilities and for the sick and the elderly. There really needs to be a promise, especially for resource-intensive services. That's why it's so important to have room both to qualify people and to hire them in full, secure positions. It gives good quality care, and it makes it possible to recruit. It is a large maintenance kit that has to be sealed. It has to expand both universal design and 5G across the country. We have to take the consequences of this, and that is why we are promoting these proposals. I also need to give an explanation of vote. SV is going to vote for both of the suspension suggestions in the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1735	I sat waiting for the Council of State to sign up to respond to some of the challenges. I know from yesterday that the council is very busy getting the last post, so I'm at least going to give him the pleasure that I'm not taking it from him today. It is timely to ask for clarification of the government’s views on some of the points raised by the various representatives here today. Then I'm not talking about corona compensation, but about part of the other challenges facing the local government sector, which is crucial to our being able to deliver good services across the country. I would like to see those clarifications come. It is not least about the possibility of using new digital aids, both in the municipal sector and in the county sector and in the public sector, in order to provide better services near people. I have noticed that it has not yet been done, but I would like to point out that the centre party has written a lot about this in the setting. It's a relationship that really needs to be commented on. To the extent that both in the media and here in the Chamber, the party of progress has become high and dark on behalf of the services provided by the municipalities, which the inhabitants receive every day, and which is a crucial foundation in what is our welfare society. I think maybe the representative of Njåstad should be happy that he is the case rapporteur, because otherwise there would have been very few contributions from the representatives of the Progress Party in this Chamber today in the area that is so important. Let me go on to the representative Nuåstad's entrance to the Maritime Fund. The Progress Party therefore believes that, in cooperation with the Government on the Maritime Fund, a billion-dollar drink has been provided to Norwegian municipalities by providing a solution that is likely to last over time. But that billionthrew isn't about a drink, it's about taking from a billion, about 1.55 billion. kr, from the last forecast. The creation of security and security for which municipal areas can be strengthened in the future through the use of funds from the Maritime Fund and facilitating growth, value creation and new jobs – well, when the representative is talking about 40–50–60 million. kr to Westland County, the representative does not even have control over what funds are now coming to the municipalities. It is of particular concern in view of the fact that both the West and a number of other coastal regions and not least the municipalities have assumed that they would also have the opportunity to facilitate growth through investment through this money, and not least to fill slumped food funds that could support activities, among others. in the districts and create new jobs, which is very much in need of the situation we are facing today. Let me conclude with a little visit to the representative Trellevik, who said that there is good reason to follow closely. Yes, if the representative had done so, he would have found out that the new KOSTRA numbers are available. So there's a lot of clarity about how many municipalities were in deficit last year, and what it's going to lead to incapacitation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1749	The President would like to inform us that if we are now able to conduct this debate not so far beyond 15 p.m., we can vote on this matter today. It was just a mild recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1754	I agree that we should land this debate in time for a decision to be taken today and that it is good for the municipalities. But when the representative Nordlund of the Centerpartie hassles that I can't say how much money Westland County will get from the Marine Fund, it comes of course from the fact that the Marine Fund pays out based on the activity of 1 September. So no one can say what any county gets. We can play a little bit in Excel, and then we see that the Western County Municipality has budgeted $2 million. kr, and that they will be more likely to separate. But we don't get the final result until the fall, as it always is. And it's not true that we cut the media, something the center part is now trying to draw an image. We're strengthening, so that the aquaculture communities have been given 2.25 billion. kr in year. It's more than they ever got. At the Center Party's government guard, a couple of hundred million people gathered. So that's a whole different amount. When it comes to representatives Bjørke and Navarsete, which make a number that we haven't talked about the bookboat before, it's also wrong. I was the leader of the cultural selection in Hordaland County from 2007 to 2011, and we fought for the bookboat, held flaming posts for the bookboat and mountain the bookboat, which has gone for 60 years to children and young people along the coast from Hordaland to More and Romesdal. It's actually now at the Senterpartie's watch in the county chair that it's putting down the offer. So one shouldn't say that we're just concerned with district policy for the symbols, neither in the county nor here, we're actually concerned that children and young people in Hordaland, Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romsdal will have good supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1763	I noticed the invitation and wanted to vote before noon. 15, and wise of damage from yesterday I will try not to say anything that helps the representative Nordlund redraw! Having said that, I would like to thank you for the debate. It has gone along known tracks. I believe that in my post I thoroughly refuted that it is a matter of some hunger-feeding of the local government sector. On the contrary, although the results are rather weaker in 2019 than in previous years, overall they have been good results for the municipal sector over the last few years. It has built up available funds that are relatively significant and that make the municipalities at the beginning of this year have a good starting point, everything else alike. Then came the Korona, and as I said, we have to compensate the municipalities for that. Then the representative Nordlund was concerned about something important in his speech, namely the need to talk more about innovation in the municipal sector in the years to come. I think we're all going to remember this. Because when the dust after the corona settles, we have to admit that the economic space for action is getting smaller, and that we have to work smarter and in other ways in order to maintain good services for the inhabitants. It will not be possible to say that increased government appropriations and increased taxes are the only answer to those challenges over time. Then we will weaken the welfare society that we are all concerned with preserving. After all, the government has launched offensively in many of these areas. I myself presented a new national strategy for artificial intelligence as one of the last things I did as a Minister for Digitalisation, a public sector digitisation strategy with objectives of coherent services across the public and private sectors. We are about to finish now and are about to present a new paper on innovation in the public sector. All of this just becomes more important in the years to come. I hope and believe that future debates on the municipal sector will not only focus on how much more money each party wants to allocate, but on how together we can contribute to playing the public sector even better in the years to come, so that citizens get the services they deserve, expect and have requirements, even in the years to come. Thank you so much for the debate, and then I hope that it made us get to vote. But now I see that the representative Navarsete has signed up, so it is possible that we do not reach it anyway!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1776	But the representative, Mr Navarsete, will now have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1781	I shall not prolong the debate much. I'm just going to establish an indisputable fact: when the representative Njåstad set up as a leader in the cultural selection in Hordaland and a ‘fight’, as he says, for the bookboat, put the Center Party and gave away money from the state, and it was completely different times. I was in government at that time, and we know that the budget was completely different, and the tone from the county councils was also quite different from today. I used to meet the county councils. We listened to them, and we met them. If they do the same today, the county councils and municipalities will have a completely different situation from what they currently have, with ROBEK alerts just about the door. Then it's completely different. If you have power, you're also responsible. Then you will also have to do the measures you need to achieve to balance your operations, when you have a government that will not allow the money you need to provide good services to your citizens, as the Council of State is talking so nicely about. He gets to go home and do the homework and bring the money he needs. So let the county councils cut, whether it's the bookboat or other stuff.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1788	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1794	The President thanked the Committee and the representatives for their good cooperation and timing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1800	The cancellation first goes to voting on the remaining issues. 10 to 14 on Agenda No 97, from June 16th.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1812	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 6, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 7 and 8, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote a comprehensive plan of short-term and long-term measures to increase the use of non-profit actors across the range of health and care services and to present it in an appropriate way to the Storting.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that regional health professionals do not buy up or take over their specialist health services and that any proposals to that effect must be addressed in the business meeting.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1851	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive plan of short-term and long-term measures to increase the use of non-profit actors, as a substitute for commercial actors, across the whole range of healthcare services, and to provide it to the Storting appropriately.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1868	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking regional health professionals to roll their strategy plans for non-profit growth, requiring at least 10 pst. their services shall be operated by ideal operators by 2030.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1885	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that non-profit hospitals have long-term contracts and that healthcare professionals are given the task of assessing the potential for increased exposure and new service volumes for non-profit hospitals in their development plans.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. Red has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1912	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the models of internal funding in regional health care providers do not provide health professionals with financial incentives to opt out of ideal actors’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that regional health professionals, when contracted with non-profit actors, require that the service provider is not able to change its mode of operation from non-profit to commercial during the contract period.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to liquidate the demand for increased competition and more purchase of private services through supply introduced by the reform of free treatment options.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e1948	During the debate Kjersti Toppe has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to put forward proposals for halting the effort-driven financing mechanism for 2020, so that all the funds under the ISF in the State budget are provided as framework funding.’;» [[ISF]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2000	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit as soon as possible the proposals necessary to ensure that policy-makers at all levels, when they receive remuneration, have to follow the same rules as for information obligations, control, activity and others that most people meet when receiving benefits from Nav.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2048	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2062	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2067	Then we have to take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2079	The size of the store then goes on to vote on the matter on today's map, no. Ninety-eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2091	A total of 26 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–6, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 7, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 8-10, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 11, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 12-14, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 15, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 16, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 17-23, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 24, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Party of Left and Christian Peoples the proposals No 25 and 26, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-five, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked by the government to increase the income of the municipal sector by at least 10-12 billion in the draft government budget for 2021. in addition to the Government’s proposal in the Municipal Proposition 2021.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2141	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for legislative changes to the Stortinget which allow municipalities to collect lower rates of property tax for primary dwellings than secondary and leisure dwellings.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2158	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to submit proposals for increased income equalisation in the income system of the municipalities.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2177	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2182	Then the result is 81 votes against the proposal of the Socialist Left Party and 6 votes in favour. That does not mean that the proposal is inconceivable. There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked by the government to increase the total revenue of the municipal sector by between 7 and 9 billion in the draft government budget for 2021. SEK in addition to the government proposal in Prop. 105 S [[2019-2020]] The Greens and Reds have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2202	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18, 20, 22 and 23, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in the forthcoming Communication on Child and Youth Culture to propose ways to strengthen and further develop the provision of cultural education and to propose concrete measures to: – ensure increased participation and accessibility for all children, for example by introducing free cultural school hours and max. prices, – ensure good framework conditions, for example by establishing a predictable financing mechanism and by introducing searchable incentives, – strengthen the practical and aesthetic subjects in school through enhanced and systematic cooperation between primary and cultural education, for example by facilitating more combined positions and by introducing requirements of competence for teaching in practical and aesthetic subjects, – increase cooperation with volunteering, for example by establishing municipal cultural forums with representatives from kindergarten, elementary education, the cultural school and volunteering.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a reduction in the ownership of municipalities in the special resource-intensive services scheme, so that the country’s share increases by an estimated 1 billion. crowns.’» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose the creation of incentives to establish several municipal services by model from Stangehilfa and follow-up research which, in addition to identifying the quality and accessibility of users, can identify possible simplifications in reporting and bureaucracy.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure full transparency for municipalities and county municipalities of financial flows in companies carrying out municipal welfare tasks or statutory services.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2244	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a permanent basic funding of the coordination function for decentralised higher education currently operated through the study centres.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2261	There is a vote on proposal No. 16th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked by the government to increase the income of the municipal sector by a minimum of 4 billion in the draft government budget for 2021. SEK in addition to the government’s proposal in the Municipal Proposition 2021, of which 1 billion. justified by maintenance of highways.’» The Socialist Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2278	There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to follow up the decision of the state budget for 2020 to extend the pilot scheme with State funding for the care of the elderly to six new municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2293	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to transfer the framework appropriations to the same model as before 2015, where all municipalities receive a similar basic grant and the small municipality grant is reintroduced.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government is asked to propose changes to the income system in order to finance urban grants and growth grants as a mark-up in the framework without any extension from all municipalities.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2318	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the mechanism of resource-intensive services and to ensure that all relevant costs incurred by municipalities in the scheme are taken into account as a basis for the municipal ownership, further investigated and presented a step 2 of the top-level funding scheme with a maximum per capita and return to the Stortinget in the context of the State budget for 2021.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2335	There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked by the government to increase the income of the municipal sector by 3 billion in the draft government budget for 2021. in addition to the Government’s proposal in the Municipal Proposition 2021.’» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2352	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-10, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that reduced wage and price growth from 2020 will not affect the income framework for 2021.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for full compensation at municipal and county level for the loss of expected tax revenue in the State budget in 2020.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to define crisis centres as national social critical infrastructure.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2381	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to ensure that municipalities and county councils are compensated for the effects of tax failure, loss of income, including compensation for parental loss, and additional costs associated with the coronary apathy.» Red has announced support for the proposal. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2400	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Without prejudice to any decision to grant additional appropriations to the ferries on the cap, the Government is asked to do so. 572 item 60 for the treatment of RNB 2020, to ensure that this appropriation is allocated so that one third is allocated according to the ferry criteria in the cost key and two thirds according to the ferry connection used by electricity ferries by 2020.’;» The Socialist Left and the Left have announced their support for the proposal. The Greens have announced subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2419	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the right, the party of progress, and the Christian party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for reassessment of the need for compensation to the local government in the light of new information both on additional expenditure and income losses in the municipal sector, developments in tax receipts and wage/price developments, and return to the Stortinge in connection with the re-balancing of the government budget for 2020, and, if possible, to give a loophole in the proposals for the State budget for 2021.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an analysis of the overall economic impact of the corona pandemic on the local government sector in 2020 in the RNB 2021/Communeproposition 2022.’;» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Environment Party The Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2446	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2451	The result is 81 votes for the proposals from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party and 6 votes against. That is why the proposals have been accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6, from the right, the party of progress, and the Christian party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government of the draft State budget for 2021 to review the arrangements for maintenance and investment in the county road network and to consider strengthening them so that county municipalities can make more investments and maintain the road network to a greater extent than at present.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size of the government’s draft State budget for 2021 provides an update on the situation of public transport and how county municipalities are compensated for reduced income as a result of anti-infection measures that reduce capacity.’ The Left and Red have announced support for the proposals. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party The Greens have announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2534	It shall be counted against II. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2548	There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the right, from the front, from the left, and from the Christian, from the party of the people. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that funding for voluntary centres is transferred to an earmarked grant under the Ministry of Culture budget from 2021 in order to secure funding for volunteer centres in both small and large municipalities.’ The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2565	It shall be counted over V, VI, VII, VIII, IX and X. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2579	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government to adequately elucidate and facilitate mechanisms in the Top Funding Scheme for Resource-Required Services in Municipalities, which provide smaller municipalities with a large number of users of Resource-Required Services.’ All parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2594	It shall be added to III and IV. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary aid. Then the president has reason to believe that all parties support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2607	It's going to wrestle over you.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2624	During the debate, Mr Greni put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government in the context of the State budget for 2021 to pay a national maximum price for boat and ferry tickets in respect of which the State fully compensates for the loss of revenue of the counties by introducing such a scheme.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2656	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-17.ana.ud44e2712	Thus, today's map has been processed. – Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? So it doesn't seem, and the meeting is cancelled.
