ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e71	The representative of Une Bastholm, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat. The representative of Terje Aasland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e81	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of the big business of Jonas Gahr Støre, Ingvild Kjerkol, Åsunn Lyngedal, Nils Kristen Sandtrøen, Cecilie Teresa Myrseth and myself to propose the establishment of a national cluster for the development and production of vaccines.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e86	The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e91	I have, on behalf of the representatives of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, the pleasure of presenting a proposal on transport measures in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e96	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that there will be voting in the case no. 1-3 now initially. The President therefore asks the representatives to remain in office for a few more minutes. Case No. 1-3 will be treated as a whole. The cases relate to the second processing of laws and apply to the legislative decisions 79 to 81.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e140	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e152	Case No. 1–3 concerns the second processing of laws and applies to legislative acts 79 to 81. There are no proposals for comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e170	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after submissions from the main speakers of the lots and six lines of response from members of the government, and those who had to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e177	Today was supposed to be a party day. This was the day we decided on the result of years of work, and concluded. This big message was to be the government's response to almost all the challenges that have been in the school field. Since 2013, various government councils from the right government have replied that in this big message, the possible challenges in the school field would be met. We have received several reports, there have been countless hearings, and not least enormous expectations have been created out there for the answers to come. There were important and major challenges to be addressed, in key areas such as early intervention and special education, which would now receive an answer, should now have a change, should now have a promise. But what came from the government was a big message that most of all is an air lock, and that I think disappointed a lot. The expectations that had been generated out there regarding special education in the PPT after the Nordahl Committee had submitted its position were not heard. The Stoltenberg Committee and the many proposals they had about both early efforts and the challenges for boys and girls are not being answered. The right-wing administration prioritises descriptions and words over actions, resources and concrete actions. And the strangest thing I think is that the responsibility is put on everyone else. The government actually uses the most space and time to tell what the government expects others to do – what the government expects the municipalities to do – without doing their part of the job and without following up. One introduces a few new obligations, and all this that is introduced and expected, does one without resources and without respect for the time use that these additional tasks will entail. In short, this is a big message that does not respond to the major challenges facing the field. The goal of the cancellation message seems to be to continue as before, despite the enormous need there is for change in the field. The government now had a historic opportunity to take action, to make changes too early, to put in place a reform for special education and to bring about a change for PPT and SFO, but they have failed. I have been the case rapporteur for the Stortinget case. We have tried to correct this in Stortinget and get the government parties and the newly-appointed opposition party to the Progress Party on changes that could have remedied the disappointment created by the government, but it is only to note that the government parties and the Progress Party are voting against all of the nearly 50 proposals promoted by the opposition. President, now I don't know how much time I really have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e188	No, the clock didn't work right now. I trust that the representative will stay within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e193	Thank you, President, I'm going to think, and I'm not going to talk about all the almost 50 proposals that the opposition is promoting. I'd rather bring out some of the most important, and then maybe we can come back to some of them in the debate. First to the PPT and the special pedagogical service in the municipalities: little concrete action is taken by the government to bring about the changes that are needed. From the opposition, we promote proposals and believe that a national plan is needed to move the expertise of the PPT closer to the student. We also believe that one should review the legislation on expert assessments. It is precisely the expert assessment that all reports have shown that stands in the way of experts spending their time helping students – and not on reporting and bureaucracy. Not least, we want more committed cooperation between the transitions, including between high school and high school. It's kind of positive, the change that's now going on between kindergarten and elementary school. For Statped, it really looks worse. The government implements where a rather massive cut that already has an impact from 2020, but has not been able to put in place or draw up the option that one now says will come into place. So a weaker and wing cutter is a national competence center without being able to describe a concrete alternative. It is serious that a now-cutter for such an important national competence centre is implementing such a large cut without having the alternatives in place and at the same time unable to answer whether this also goes beyond the offer of the weakest students, as a now-cutter for without having any alternative in place. We also put forward a proposal to rapidly evaluate the decentralised systems of competence, Dekomp, which have proved to be ineffective. It's going to be tuned down now. We have also put forward many good proposals that could do something about the growing shortage of teachers – without one voting for those proposals and looking at the opportunities for action. Finally, the situation we are now facing with the Korona crisis shows that it is precisely this student group we should be addressing. It is precisely in this big message that you should come up with better answers. Reports on the impact of school leaving show that the weakest students, the worst starting point, have lost most in closed schools, and are going to lose most of the gradual reopening of schools now. Unfortunately, these students today do not get any new answers on how the system can be and change for them. I'm sorry. But there is still an opportunity for the government parties and the Progress Party to join in and vote for some of the many proposals that the opposition is promoting today, which could make it better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e206	Does the representative then address the proposals on which the Labour Party is involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e211	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e216	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e223	There has been no lack of criticism from the Workers' Party regarding this big message, and it has been pointed out that too much time has been spent and investigated too much. But now we have a big message and a setting here today that is based on extensive work, with information from both the Nordahl Committee and the Stoltenberg Committee, hearing replies, more statistics and more knowledge. So we know that today's system is not good enough, and that too many people get special education from unskilled assistants. It is therefore important that we take action, that we get started, that we quickly increase competence in the municipalities, not least that we get to make those changes and go up the lines that make you eat the services in the municipalities for the many, and that you have the excellent competence in Statped. The answer from the Workers' Party is that you want to postpone it, you don't want to be part of it. But you don't come up with any other plan, you have no other proposal than to point out that the government has to work on the matter further. Can the representative Tvedt Solberg reveal what the Workers' Party really means in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e230	Again: I am not going to frame all of the 50 alternative proposals that the opposition and the Workers' Party have in this matter. But I want to repeat what I said, that what we're critical of, is that the government in this big message chooses to prioritize descriptions and words over action and resources for concrete action. Then it should not surprise the Right and Government parties that we are voting against the reorganization of Statped and oppose this, which is primarily a cut, which is primarily a wing clipping, where the government parties have not yet made a concrete proposal on how to use this money, and what this new offer is, as the representative Gudmundsen here only describes with words, and on which there is nothing concrete. Our proposals would lead to more and more concrete changes, so that one had actually achieved what is needed in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e235	It's actually completely wrong. I would recommend the representative Tvedt Solberg to read the big message a little more carefully. It is now time that both the strengthening of research and the creation of a separate national centre of expertise for special education have been proposed, as well as the precise way in which the division of labour between Statped, PPT and the municipal sector is to be understood. You point to a number of diagnostics, and you draw up some lines. But then, of course, when you're about to convert an organisation, you do it in interaction with the skills and employees, and I thought the Workers' Party was very concerned about that. So even if we don't put a detailed reorganization plan in a big message, which would be totally unnatural, there's clearly a political framework for how to understand how to improve special education and the skills you need to support against municipalities. So once again, I can't help but see that the Workers' Party has no alternative but to criticize. In many of the proposals submitted, there is nothing other than what is already in the Single European Act in this field. So I ask, what is the concrete plan of the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e241	Now, of course, I should also like the Workers' Party to be in the government, and then could present a more powerful message, with a clearer grip that could have changed something. Now, unfortunately, it is the Right who has been in government, the Right who has put forward these proposals, and the only concrete Right does in this area is to implement a cut in Statped, which is the National Centre of Expertise for Special Education. And if the answer to the Right at the same time is to create a new national competence centre, without at all being able to describe how to get good competence out in the municipalities, I think it's strange. Nordahl, who made the report, said at the hearing that with the changes proposed by the government, there will be no change in the municipalities, because the government will not be able to describe it. I hope that the government can provide some answers here, and that the opposition does not do the job again to this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e246	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e251	I have really looked forward to today's debate, which was postponed, and that now in the Grand Duchy we are going to adopt many good and not least important changes in special education and the organization of children in the many kindergartens and schools. At the same time, we are now in an almost unreal and demanding time when we are fighting to take our daily lives back, and in stages we are going to make it. The week we now lie behind us, indicates that we have a successful opening in kindergartens, and we have many happy children. This weekend, about 250,000 expectant children will be allowed to enter the school gate again. The Community, the learning and the play that children get by going to kindergarten or school is important for the personal development and mastering of their children. For me as a father of two, nothing is more important than knowing that my kids are doing well now that the kindergartens are open, and that the school is next. After a month and a half with a home office, there are probably a lot of people who look forward to a little less hectic everyday life, but I don't think it's just us parents who are longing – I also think our children are longing for their routines and friends. Not least they have missed out on the important professional community of the school. A good basis early in the course of training will do much to prevent school rejection, contribute to learning joys, mastery feelings and increased self-esteem. This is why it has been so important for the Right to strengthen early efforts throughout kindergarten and school, with basic skills in focus so that the meeting with all disciplines becomes easier. The aim is for the school to have access to teacher specialists in initial training from 1st to 4th grade and for all schools and kindergartens to have special pedagogical competence. For all children deserve a good start. Then we have to have schools and kindergartens that do raise all children, no matter what background they have, and where they live. Today, when we adopt a number of measures to contribute to early childhood and post-secondary education efforts, we are just contributing to this. Among the key measures we are delivering today is the introduction of an obligation for schools to follow-up students with high levels of absence and to give all schools access to teacher specialists in initial training. We also tighten the legislation on the use of assistants that provide special pedagogical assistance, and move our young people closer by transferring tasks from Statped to increased competence in municipalities and counties. The SFO gets a national framework plan, and we get arrangements for more reasonable SFOs for low-income families. In addition, we extend the obligation to be intensively trained in reading, and all children should then be guaranteed basic skills as early as possible. The goal is clear: we're going to give our kids a better foundation, so that more students can complete and pass higher education. Completion of secondary education is important for individuals and essential for Norway to have a sustainable welfare society, including in the future. In addition, there are too many dropouts from secondary education, and the right-wing government aims at 90 pst by 2030. by students starting in higher education, completing and passing. One of the measures we are also adopting today is the introduction of measures for closer cooperation between high school and high school, in order to improve the transition. We're going to be glad that a lot of things have gone the right way for Norwegian school in the last few years, but still not all students get the help they need. Many get help too late and meet too low expectations. An important reason for this is the lack of competence, and that skilled professionals are too far away. Statped provides help and support for schools and kindergartens, but today there are unclear boundaries between Statped and PP services in municipalities, and local competences vary greatly. The result is that help for our kids depends on which municipality you live in. I therefore think it is good that there should now be a clearer mandate for Statped, which is getting narrower, and that we are now transferring resources and raising expectations to the municipalities. Those with the best special pedagogical competence shall leave the office and enter the classroom, schools and kindergartens. We're going to carry out a historical and lasting lift of competence in the special field of education, and we're going to make sure that all children are met by professionally qualified teachers. Among other things, we will establish a further training offer in special pedagogy and physical-motor development for kindergarten teachers. We know how important the first years of children's lives are for development and the basis for further learning. What we are adopting here today will therefore have a major impact on the further strengthening of children's opportunities in life. They deserve that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e272	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e277	There's a lot I could ask about. I could ask back some of the questions asked by the representative. I guess it's more natural for him to answer that, really. I want to focus on the PPT, the municipal pedagogical service. There is a need for enormous changes. Unfortunately, as the Nordahl Committee has shown, most of the special education is done by unskilled people. There's a lot of one that should be done. At the hearing of the committee I asked Nordahl if he thought there was going to be any change with the proposals made by the government. The right usually tends, especially when it comes to smileys and mappings and all that, to listen to Nordahl, but he replied that the proposals that the government has made will mean that one continues as before. That doesn't mean any change. Is Nordahl wrong in his description?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e284	When we are going through the level of competence of the special educational field in the municipal sector, there is no doubt that such a type of initiative will also lead to a change in practice and a much better follow-up of the individual student with special needs. We already see a report from NIFU that shows that the other efforts we make in continuing training are confirmed by the teachers. It's good, it leads to a change in practice, and it helps make you feel like you're a better teacher. I have no reason to believe that a similar effort within the special field of education will not result in us getting a better first line that can much more closely follow up and provide better organisation for the individual child. It is important that we make this promise, and not least that we get a delimitation against Statped, so that we get a clearer and clearer division of responsibilities, and that we focus on the resources we sit on at school. Here I register that the Workers' Party is voting against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e291	Once again, only an air lock is described; I hear nothing concrete to change the practice of the PPT. But since Statped is also mentioned, we can't get away from it, because the only concrete government does there is cut quite a few millions and narrow the mandate. This means, as the representative also stressed from the pulpit, that some children who today receive offers from Statped – children with it can call the more common diagnosis, not just the acute diagnosis – now lose their offer. So one says up the competence that exists in Statped, without being able to describe how it should arise out in the municipalities. That means Statped is now not going to help a certain kind of child. Can the representative Gudmundsen guarantee that there will not be a worse offer for the children who are in those groups that are not now offered in Statped?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e298	It's going to be a better offer, because we're now getting a clearer sharing of responsibilities and therefore also a focus that makes it possible to get both more research and better and closer follow-up of the kids who might need it the most. Not least, we will have a lasting and high level of competence in the municipalities. When I hear the representative Tvedt Solberg say that there are no concrete measures, it is, when I think about it a little bit, not really so terribly surprising, because when I talk about a massive effort of knowledge and empowerment in the municipal sector, and the Workers' Party considers it not concrete, it really says a little about the basics of the Workers' Party: that investing in knowledge, investing in raising skills, investing on the first line, precisely through what we propose in the communication, is not concrete. Well – I feel quite confident that we are now on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e305	There is a strong cross-political consensus in this room to strengthen training for children in need of special pedagogical follow-up, and to see how the various support systems work. However, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, SV has proposed to stop the reorganisation of Statped, which has also been discussed in the past. I noticed that the representative Gudmundsen guaranteed that those who are currently connected to Statped will get a better offer. We've received a lot of input from worried parents and disability interest groups saying that the government's proposal for a budget cut will limit Statped's services and weaken the help of the children who need it the most. I wonder if the Right speaking person has carried out a child's best judgment in this matter. And why does the Right not choose to listen to the warnings that the Children’s Ombudsman and user organisations have brought?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e314	Of course, we have taken the best interests of our children into account when we propose these measures. That's the whole point of the message. Our goal is for all children to be seen and met early, as early as possible, so that they can get mastery feeling and get the necessary follow-up that both balance social differences and address special challenges that some children unfortunately face in life. The goal, of course, is to reorganise with a clearer division of responsibilities, to give a stronger focus to the responsibility that is left. One of the challenges today is the lack of clear division of responsibilities and the lack of a broad mandate. This often leads to liability powdering. I don't see anyone today calling out and defending the system we have now. It's too bad. It helps too few. And we can't sit still now with as much knowledge and just look at, wait and postpone, as the opposition wants. No, it's time to act. Our kids deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e323	The cord shift is with the change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e329	Every harvest begins tens of thousands for the first time in school, with great hopes and expectations of what this new chapter of life will contain. Even I have a daughter who radiates enthusiasm at the thought of becoming a schoolgirl this fall, and I am very happy on her behalf. In Norway, most parents and children are satisfied with the offer they receive, and we will remember that from time to time. But it is unfortunately also a part that is dissatisfied, and that with good reason. Of the 15 first-graders who start in a class at a random school this fall, it will be statistically 3-4 that do not pass through secondary school. It's too high a number, which is a cross-political agreement. The reasons for their falling away vary greatly. This may be due to lack of motivation, dissatisfaction, bullying, difficult family situations, not getting the professional follow-up they require, or getting help too late. This Communication addresses some of these issues, but in education policy, it is the whole of all actions over many years that have an impact, not just a single communication. In our time, when we were in government, we got into quite a lot of good. We have received several teachers and kindergarten teachers, put massive emphasis on continuing education and introduced an obligation to provide intensive training for those who are dependent on reading, writing and billing in 1–4. class, to mention something. In early and special education, there has been a consensus that today’s system has not worked well enough. Many people don't get the help they need, many students get help too late, and too many people get help from unskilled personnel. Now the help is being moved closer to the children. We transfer resources from the state educational support system to increased competence in municipalities and counties. This message was presented while the Progress Party was still in government, and we are pleased with many of the measures now being presented. We are particularly pleased that models are to be tested for a more flexible school start, which the Progress Party has long arranged for. Now the threshold is lowered for out-of-school or out-of-school. A number of municipalities will now try out different models, and by trying them out, we want to get more knowledge of how to make good transitions and customize school start-ups. Unfortunately, we see that some children start at school without being able to speak and understand Norwegian well enough. It makes school start-ups extra difficult, and it prevents integration. Monitoring and follow-up of Norwegian education will have to do if we are to have a chance to achieve a more successful integration than what we have today. We are pleased that Norwegian skills are now to be surveyed in children before school starts, so that the necessary measures can be taken quickly. We are also pleased that schools are given a clearer follow-up obligation for high school leavers, while building up skills where children and students are — in kindergartens and in schools. To improve school outcomes, measurements and surveys of what works are important. There is a lot of research that shows that early efforts for language skills already in kindergarten affect the entire school cycle. The school, like most other things in the world, gets better with systematic knowledge. The measures provided for in this Communication are based on knowledge, and the aim is to provide our children with the best possible school. For the Progress Party, it is an important principle that all children are different, that they learn differently and at different paces, and that everyone is entitled to adapted training. For us, it is vital that competence is increased, that the student's team is strengthened, and that the quality of regular training is strengthened. The aim of this Communication is to reduce the need for special education, and this is done primarily by improving regular training through the full range of school policies that we have been involved in over the last seven years – such as the Teacher Lift, the intensified fight against bullying, a variety of schools to choose from, and not least that teachers are given the opportunity to fill in professionally. It is the sum of all measures that will work in the long term and this message is a good step on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e357	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e362	The party of progress has now gone out of government and is an opposition party, along with the rest of us here in Stortinget. I might have expected the Progress Party in this matter to present its own proposals that would make what the Progress Party actually stands for, in contrast to this message and what they have done in the government in the past. The Progress Party is involved in all proposals for cuts in the economy of the municipalities. They're part of the National Statped. They are also for quality-based admission to high school, which will weaken the worst students. What is the point in this message that the Progress Party will make in particular, which means that children and young people are more likely to grow up and learn better than what is being promoted here?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e367	First of all, I would like to remind the representative that this message was presented in November, while the Progress Party was still in government. The notification is a result of a work that has been in progress for several years, while the Progress Party was in government. Even though we are now in opposition, we are loyally behind what was presented while we were in government. We are pleased with many of the measures in the communication, including: mapping of languages, which the Labour Party opposes – they propose that there is no need to monitor the language development of children before school starts. That, I believe, is an important measure. Flexible school start-ups, as I mentioned, are an important measure for us. But not least, we are pleased that we need to strengthen the skills where the students are, and move the skills out to schools and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e372	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e377	The school is important for the development of children, both professionally and socially. For the past few weeks, I think the closure has shown us that the kids miss their school. Unfortunately, not all children and students get the help they need. The consequence is that they often develop and learn less than they could do with a well-organised educational offer. As the rapporteur said in his statement, Stortinget has waited a long time for this message. The government has for a long time stepped into the water in order to avoid dealing with issues and proposals raised by the opposition, and thus the government has also built up the expectations of the message of all who are impatient and have been waiting for new grips and new initiatives. What needs to be asked then is whether the proposals in the Communication are sufficient to ensure that all young people have equivalent opportunities, whether the measures in the Communication will ensure a more inclusive community and early school effort, and whether the resources are sufficient, so that the special pedagogical competence is close to young people and students across the country. For this, some of the main challenges facing the notification and government are measured. As indicated in the setting, the Central Party considers that the notification does not meet all these expectations, which the Government has helped to build up around the notification. Overall, the message provides a good situational description, but when it comes to practical grip, it lacks. The central party believes that the government in the notification is constantly shifting responsibility to others – especially the municipalities – by listing what the government expects, and what obligations the government expects others to carry out. For Statped, a mid-term reorganisation has been outlined without any clarification of the resources either for Statped's further operations or for the municipalities to take over tasks. The central party believes that a change cannot be expected if the government does not give priority to decommitting sufficient resources. The centre party therefore supports the concern expressed by several bodies at the Committee’s hearing that the notification will not lead to significant changes in the school environment. A premise of early success is the school's ability to adapt both the teaching and the arrangement of the school day to the needs of the students and the level of maturity. It is now more than two years since the Central Party proposed an evaluation and review of the six-year reform. The background was serious signals from researchers, teachers, and parents worried about how the youngest students were doing at school. The aim of the six-year reform was to ensure a soft familiarity with the school day, among other things. through extensive use of play-based learning. The centre party was therefore pleased when a unanimous rally agreed with us and decided that a wish for an evaluation of the reform to improve school life for the youngest. But then it stopped. An overall evaluation, as the Stortinget decided in 2018, could provide us with a better basis both for the message we are discussing today and for the completion of the trade union renewal. Instead, it is striking that the government now in the message actually chooses to write: ‘We know little about how the youngest children are being followed up in school today.’ And only now do they give the Education Directorate the task of launching an evaluation. We've lost valuable time there. The government is taking up the message for more flexible school start-ups. The center party is skeptical about it. Firstly, we believe that today's legislation opens up both to promote and postpone school start-ups. Second, the Center Party believes that it is the school that needs to be adapted to the kids, not the kids that need to adapt to the school. Such a change in the legislation advocated by the majority may put pressure on parents to wait to send their children to school. What can it do with the marine image of the child who needs to see that peers from kindergarten get started at school, while a sail must wait? The proposal to test different forms of flexible school start-up really does not harmonize very well with the objective of building an inclusive community. With that, I would like to address the proposals on which the Central Party is involved, in addition to those which have already been raised by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e399	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e406	The representative Arnstad says she is concerned that the competence of the PPT does not get closer to the children in the classroom with this message. But the Centre Party also opposes most of the proposals in this Communication that may lead to fundamental changes in the system. The centre party, which is otherwise very concerned with relocating the competence and clarifying the responsibilities of the municipalities, is now opposed to changing the mandate of Statped and has a long-standing level of competence in the municipalities. They are also opposed to an extension of the follow-up mechanism, which is precisely to follow up on those municipalities that have specific challenges in the special educational support system. It's kind of strange that you criticize the government for not doing anything, while you're against what's done. The Labour Party wanted earlier today to use its speaking time to criticise the government, and does not want to ram up its concrete actions. But could the representative of the Central Party perhaps mention two concrete actions that are not contained in this Communication – in concrete terms – that she believes will be sufficient to move the competence into the classroom?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e415	We believe that the reorganisation that the government and the majority are talking about here is a typical example of what this government is used to doing: a half-way reorganization where one claims to do a great reorganization – but you don't do anything, you don't really do it at one end or the other. It's typical here as well; you have to reorganize Stadped, and then you pick 200 million away. kr from Statped. If you have to transfer it to the municipalities, it's less than 1 million. kr for each municipality. Then they say that the municipalities should assume responsibility, without resources. It's so that things are connected. There will be no better measures for so-called competences if you do not actually contribute the resources needed to carry out a reorganization, and it is not at the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e420	I'd like to remind the representative that over a ten-year period, it's about 1.5 to 2 billion. kr to be transferred to the municipalities so that they can take more responsibility in the classroom and follow up. In what was heard from the representative, it was not a single concrete proposal – what is the alternative of the Central Party. I've got the Center Party two and a half billion. extra kr that they intend to use on the top of this? It is not in their alternative budget at all, rather on the contrary. So the question is, what exactly do you have to do from the Center Party to move the competence into the classroom? We can't just label the system we have. All the reports show that we need to change attitudes, we need to change structure, and we also need to change skills. It will ensure a lasting level of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e425	Well, the Center Party has a marine alternative. We had 2.5 billion. kr more in free money for municipalities in the last year’s government budget compared to the government’s budget. It is clear that it would have meant a significant difference in this as well. But at the same time, I think we should pay some attention to what the hearing bodies have said here. The child ombudsman has been quite clear – this is not about competence, it is not what solves the problems here. This is about resources, and it is not possible to carry out such reorganisation without adding sufficient resources, and it is the government that normally chooses not to do so. Neither did they when they were to introduce the standard of personnel in kindergartens. It hit small private kindergartens. They don't do that here either, and the central part won't be involved in the kind of halfway solutions that don't work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e431	I hope the representative listens to the Children's Ombudsman when they say that there is an incredibly high risk of continuing as today. The system today is not good enough. What you add up to here is a change in the system, you move your competence down over a longer period of time. It is a concrete, important measure, and, of course, we must follow up on the fact that it is done in a proper and safe manner. But once again, the centre party does not promote a single concrete proposal here, what their alternative is to ensure better follow-up of the students who are struggling today. I can only end with one last question to the representative. Today we have a follow-up scheme that follows up municipalities that have many students who are struggling professionally and socially. That follow-up scheme is very popular. It does not publish who is receiving help, but it does target the efforts of the municipalities that need it. It's the Center Party against, also in this case. Can the representative tell me why you should not help and guide the municipalities that actually want to get help?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e438	Firstly, we can listen to the Children's Ombudsman in terms of reorganization, if the government listens to the Children's Ombudsman in terms of resources. But that's what this government usually does — a proposal for reorganisations without providing the adequate resources. I believe there are many opportunities to strengthen the follow-up around the individual students. I don't think this teacher-specialist system or this follow-up of extra weak municipalities is the way to go. Splitting School Norway into those who succeed well, and those who succeed poorly, and then the state will come and show those who are bad, how they will do better – I just don't believe in that kind of attitude. I think more forces, more resources, more qualified teachers in all municipalities are good. The big problem in Norway today is not that we lack teachers' specialists, but that in many we simply lack qualified teachers' powers, that students are taught by people who do not have learning skills at all. We have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e445	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e450	Through international commitments such as the Children’s Conventions and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Norway has underlined the right of all students to attend an inclusive school. That is why it was a pleasure when we finally got a message. St. 6 for 2019–2020, Close to – early and inclusive community in kindergarten, school and SFO. SV has long asked for government policy in the areas covered by the notification, and it is positive that the Stortinget is now having these issues discussed in depth. It is positive that there is broad political support for having a kindergarten and school in Norway that provides opportunities for all children and young people, regardless of social, cultural and linguistic background, gender and cognitive and physical differences. But the joy was short-lived. We received a big message in her that shows that the government prioritises descriptions and words, rather than actions, resources and concrete actions. It is throughout the message that responsibility is transferred to others, especially the municipalities, by listing what the government expects. If a person really wants to change the practice in an area that has repeatedly been called a dark chapter in Norwegian school history, a person must be willing to prioritize and set aside sufficient resources. This is not just a concern SV put forward, I noticed that the same concern was raised by several of the bodies that were at the committee's hearing, that the notification would not lead to significant changes in the school. The government has overreacted to the major challenges that exist out there. Therefore, SV believes that the staging message is both toothless and full of of of course. We are calling for more binding measures. There are many fine words that very few can say disagree with. Government parties have to take on board, when they finally present a big message about this, that the Children’s Ombudsman’s report on the theme a few years ago was called ‘No Goal and Meaning’. The Children’s Ombudsman claimed that children’s rights to good special education are broken daily in Norway. The offer the students get is random, and it doesn't seem like you're willing to find out what the children are actually learning. Then it must be like biting in the sour apple that the opposition parties find 49 areas of the magnification message should have been strengthened on. In the case of SV, it has been particularly important to focus on strengthening the school’s ability to provide adapted training and to increase the school’s special educational skills. All children, young people and adults shall have the right to a qualified teacher, irrespective of where they live or where in the course of their education. The education sector has major recruitment problems, and these cannot be solved through shortcuts to teacher competence. The principle of equivalent training is weakened if training is not provided by qualified teachers. SV is critical to introduce an obligation to assess all children’s Norwegian skills prior to schooling. Of course, those children who have challenges that are considered significant before school starts should be entitled to good follow-up, but the key to successful language work in kindergarten is trust – trust that employees follow up their children systematically – and not a rigid obligation for language testing, as the government suggests. The government is proposing to move 150-200 million. kr from Statped to the municipalities and counties over a five-year period. I am concerned that this will weaken the offer for those students who need the most support. An inclusive single school shall ensure that all children and young people receive a good training offer, irrespective of where they live and the economic background from which they come. Society shall take responsibility for the ability of all children to attend a school where they acquire knowledge and can thrive. To achieve this, it is important to focus on early responses to children who face challenges in their everyday school life. We can't give up a single child! With that, I take up the SV's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e473	The representative of Mona Fagerås then brought up the SV's proposal in the case. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e480	There is a broad consensus that a good SFO offer can contribute to inclusion and to balance social differences. SV also states in comments on this case that the SFO is one of the most important joint arenas for children and young people, and that this should be an offer to all children, regardless of the parent’s economy. At the same time, SV, as the only party, stands outside a note that it is also necessary to look at how children can be cared for in the SFOs of higher education institutions in a purpose provision. Nor does SV wish to be involved in assessing whether the income-graded parental payment schemes and free SFOs should also apply to the SFOs offered by the comprehensive schools. Free schools represent a small proportion, but an important diversity in Norwegian school. Can the representative of Fagerås explain why she and SV feel that it is not as important that we work for social cohesion, inclusion and an equivalent SFO offer for students who attend in fresh schools, as for students who attend public schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e487	The school leisure system is an important leisure arena for children and an important arena for play, culture and leisure activities. I think I and the representative very much agree on that. So far, in the case of high school, they have had a slightly special role in terms of SFOs. It is primarily the government that has now been sitting for six years – with the Council of State from the Right – that is responsible for addressing the challenges of the SFOs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e494	I have to admit, I understood that answer a little bit. The government will now arrange, and you will be invited to join a scheme to ensure both an equivalent SFO offer and a more reasonable SFO for children in low-income families. SV is usually very concerned that everyone should get equal offers, not least children who live in poverty or perhaps have a more challenging start in life. Does the representative Fagerås not see that not wanting to give children an equally good SFO or equally good access to SFO is a discrimination that only affects the children? Here SV is invited to solve just those challenges, but they make an active choice if they don't want to be involved. What's the reason for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e501	The representative from SV may admit that this might be an area where we have to go into more detail. I still think this is the government's responsibility. The right has been sitting with the state council for six years, and then it's those who should have settled this a long time ago. They have been wearing six years, and then loading SV for this problem I find very strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e506	I am truly happy to hear that SV is willing to join in and look at it. At the same time, it is strange, when we now deal with a matter that can do something about this, that SV makes an active choice to stand outside. This is about discrimination against children, a discrimination that SV normally – in its heartwarming – will not participate in in other arenas. I just hope that when it comes to realizing this, SV will not oppose it, and that in their alternative budgets they will also help to ensure that children at the SFO in incubators get an equally good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e511	If the government here and now promises to sort this out, maybe SV doesn't have to spend money on it in its alternative budgets. But I'm pretty sure when the government comes up with this case, we'll look at it. And I don't think we'll be so very disagreeable when this is finally decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e517	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e522	Since the mid-19th century, left-wing people have had school in their blood. The Storting Message Close to – early and inclusive communities in kindergarten, school and SFO and knowledge minister Guri Melby show this to the full. For my own part, as a mother of three children, I have seen how important a good kindergarten and school can be. We've all probably seen the shine in the eyes of a child who masters – who masters reading, counting and acting in front of a congregation or getting a fire on a fire. Nothing is better than that. The general school effort in Norway, and this notification in particular, make it more possible to master it. By building the skills of kindergarten teachers, teachers and other disciplines in school, we achieve improvement. I am grateful to all kindergarten teachers and teachers, for they are doing the world's most important job. For the Left, a good school is about giving all children equal opportunities to learn, to master and to build a foundation for their own lives, so that everyone can take out their potential. For us, kindergarten and school are the most important common institutions we have in society. When Left and Johan Sverdrup introduced the National School Act in 1889, it was radical. It provided the basis for a common school for all children. Now the housekeeper's daughter could sit on the same school bench as the director's son. All children should be given equal opportunities — and that is the cornerstone of Norwegian school policy today. However, it does not mean that everything should be similar in kindergarten, school and SFO; it should be adapted to the student's abilities and needs. This Communication points out that competence and flexibility are essential for childcare and school care for everyone and for everyone. And the signals in the message are clear: Competence must be where the kids and the students are. There shall be a large and permanent level of competence in special education, a total training effort of between 1.5 and 2 billion. kr. Professionals with the appropriate competence shall provide special educational assistance and special instruction. Interdisciplinary work in and around kindergartens and schools should be strengthened, and prevention and early efforts should be undertaken. There shall be a more equivalent SFO offer in the country and a national framework plan for SFO is established. The SFO shall be cheaper and free of charge for children with special needs of 5-7. steps. Kindergarten, school and SFO shall have a common culture for inclusion. Provision shall be made for pilot projects with more flexible school start-ups in order to adapt to the level of maturity of the student. The information transmission between kindergarten and school, as well as between school levels, shall be improved. We're going to bet on language evaluation and mapping before school starts in order to provide students with the best possible language offer. And municipalities should be given an obligation to follow up students who do not attend primary school. The left considers that these measures could provide children with the opportunities they should have in kindergarten and in school. In particular, we hope that cooperation between kindergarten and school, as well as early work in kindergarten and school, will help ensure that as much as possible the best possible start to kindergarten and school — and life — for a good upbringing lasts life out. To bet on kindergarten and school is still about giving children and young people equal opportunities. It's about children who have a mother and a father who for various reasons are out of work, or who are struggling with illness, also have to go to kindergarten, so that their parents can also see the shine in the eyes of their children when they master. And the struggle for all children to have a good upbringing with equal opportunities, continues, because just as in 1889, it's still so that there's education that works best to balance differences and to lift people's lives. In this way, this message carries a close-up — early and inclusive community in kindergarten, school and SFO, with its message of inclusion, community and opportunities, the legacy of Sverdrup continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e537	Close to – early and inclusive communities provide important guidance for a direction in which the school wants to evolve. It refers to a society of educational pathways designed to provide opportunities for all children, regardless of social, cultural, religious and linguistic backgrounds, regardless of sex and cognitive and physical variations. There are many challenges to addressing Norwegian education courses, but by launching closer to 60 actions in this Communication, we are seeking to make significant and important improvements that can facilitate closer and more organised follow-up of children with different needs. But it's not just about the number of actions, it's about creating a common culture for each kindergarten and school, for inclusion and early effort, so that municipalities, kindergartens, schools, the SFO and the support system work in the same direction. If we don't get a change in practice, we won't achieve the goals we've set for our children and for all the employees who create around the children. Let me mention a couple of things. In particular, I think it is important in this context to start work on national regulation of the school leisure system. The school leisure system is currently characterised by far too wide a range of design, content, objectives, price and not least quality. With a national framework plan for the SFO – to which you now add – you need to look at quality, so that it becomes a place where all the 1–4th classes that want it can participate, be included, feel mastery and thrive in the best possible way. We in the Christian People's Party believe that the SFO Day should have a pedagogical framework – it is not primarily a storage place – with varied activities that are playful but also contribute to learning. A prerequisite for strengthening SFO provision across the country, as the government now provides, is also to strengthen the skills of employees, while ensuring close cooperation with the school and better opportunities for continuing training for employees in the future. The Christian People's Party also believes that there should be requirements for educational or pedagogical competence for the managers of the SFO, so that we can provide the necessary educational guidance for the other employees working with the children. The national framework plan, like the kindergarten framework, must have support and guidance material to ensure a good implementation. At the same time, we believe that this will affect both the quality and quality assurance of all children’s inclusion and not least the experience of being meaningful in a community after school. The concept of ‘all children’ is an inclusive concept, but not all universal offers are suitable for all. In order to ensure close, early and inclusive communities, this sometimes needs to be made available in different ways to ensure participation for all. Indeed, studies have shown that parents of children with special needs are more likely to demand better and more competent and habilitating activities in the SFO than they find today, and are concerned that the provision to this group of pupils needs to be better organised to ensure good educational content at both the group and the individual levels. This is what we believe in the Christian People's Party must be part of the forthcoming work on a national framework plan for the SFO. Section 9 A-1 of the Education Act lays down rules on the school environment for school leisure schemes of the independent schools. Although it is optional for independent schools whether or not they want to establish an SFO offer, it is not optional for those schools that choose to have the SFO to follow the school environment rules. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that it is necessary for the government now – as an initiative – to continue to look at how to care for children in the school leisure arrangements. We believe that one should review this in the preparation of the national framework plan and facilitate its application to those boarding schools that wish to operate the SFO. Early efforts and inclusive practices in kindergartens and schools may not only be adopted by government or mainstreaming. It's about creating culture and attitudes where the children are. We know that children in low-income families are evenly distributed in public schools and in health schools. Therefore, the same arrangements applicable to public schools should also apply to the post-secondary schools for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e562	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e567	One of the objectives of this message was to help the children who need help most. A group in question is children with disabilities. Some of the first Solberg government did after 2013, was postponing the Stoltenberg government's universal design roadmap for several years. It also reduced universal design of school buildings by several years. Therefore, there was great expectation from us when this message came, that you should follow up the road map, to make sure that children get to attend the same line at school. The shock was great as it was not followed up with concrete means or instruments. The Labour Party is involved in a proposal in this case that all children should be able to attend secondary school by 2030 and that the Roadmap be followed up with concrete measures and funds from the State budget for 2021. My question to the Christian People's Party as a government party is: When will the government take this so seriously that you follow up with funds, not just with words?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e576	I'm very happy to get that question. If there's something we're concerned about, there's a physical organization also of school buildings, which makes them suitable for all groups, including those with disabilities. There is a plan on the universal design table – the road map to which the representative Henriksen refers – for a period of time up to 2030. It is important that the primary school principle is applied, and I perceive that the government and government parties are now united behind the fact that a person wants to take steps to approach the goal of this being a reality within the period now laid. Then different types of measures have to be considered in terms of instruments, and that is what we have to come back to in the individual annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e585	The fact that the road map for universal design was exposed for so many years has caused us to lose valuable time, among other things. to help those children with disabilities who encounter barriers at school. The organisations of the disabled say that up to 80 pst. The availability of primary schools is low. Now it is not the Christian People's Party that is responsible for the Solberg government choosing to postpone the road map in its time. The plan came, and there is a reason why the opposition has promoted so many proposals for concrete changes. The question is, when can we expect to follow up on concrete measures and not just overall objectives? Can we expect the important work from the state budget to be started in 2021, or should we simply repeat the target?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e592	When we're dedicated to achieving the goals we've set ourselves in the plan, it's about a lot of things. It is about adapting the needs of the school to the needs of the individual student, and it is about facilitating the delivery of higher education by more people. One asks questions about when this is going to happen, but that doesn't mean nothing is happening right now. We see around municipalities and county municipalities that they are being taken into account, that clear government guidelines have been laid out on how new school buildings and the improvement of school buildings will be carried out. We see that something happens every year. So we're doing that work, but we're going to get back to a further bet on this in the budget for 2021, and the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e599	In the question of flexible schooling, it seems that the Christian People's Party has unfortunately listened more to former government partners than to research. Research does not support flexible schooling and the majority of the Stoltenberg Committee did not support this. SV believes that the school should adapt to the students, not the opposite, and I actually thought we and the Christian People's Party were united about that. The Education Association used its time in the hearing to link the assessment of all children’s language skills with vulnerable school leaving. Does the Christian People's Party share the concern of the Federation of Education that a person is at risk of unlucky segregation if they are of the weakest language skills, or Norwegian knowledge, that is exposed to school start-ups?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e606	When we've had flexible school start-ups, it's really about the individual student having different assumptions, maturity levels, in order to start school the year they're six years old. We are concerned with a greater degree of flexibility, greater opportunities for parents themselves to be involved in that assessment. The current practice has been very rigid. It has been that almost an expert assessment had to be made in order to be able to do something about the start of the school. We want to solve for it, as I said. We also have a minority in the Stoltenberg Committee, which Camilla Stoltenberg represents, who just pointed out that solution in view of especially boys who are struggling with maturity when they turn six in the year they're going to start school. So we think we should have more experience in this. We have a little experience. Now there are some municipalities that are applying, and then we get to evaluate those experiences after a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e616	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e621	With this big message, the government presents a policy that will help all children and students get a good and inclusive educational offer, regardless of background and assumptions. In recent years, the government has taken considerable steps to ensure that kindergartens and schools provide opportunities for all, and this communication is based on those initiatives. There is much going in the right direction in Norwegian school and kindergarten, but we still have serious challenges to address, and we are doing so now. But unfortunately, there is no doubt about the problem, and a culture that has built up over decades, it also takes very many years to turn around. There is no big-mouth message alone that can solve this – we need to build stone on stone, and this message launches a number of actions based on many other actions that have been implemented in recent years. The most important thing we can do to strengthen an inclusive practice in kindergarten and school is to improve the quality of the regular offer, what is given to all students. Then the teachers will be better able to catch children and students early. We have to break down the barriers between general and special education. This will lead to a smaller need for specific schemes for individual children. The competence must be where the students are: close to. For this reason, we will strengthen and further develop skills and further development measures already in place in schools and kindergartens. In this message, we are alerting a large and lasting level of competence in the special educational field, both for kindergarten, school, PP service and other services that work in the community around the children and the students. This will contribute to the competence of all municipalities and counties to capture and follow up all children and students. In order to strengthen the competence of children and students, the government will re-dispose resources from Statped to local skills enhancement measures. Over a ten-year period, this will provide a combined competence effort of between 1.5 and 2 billion. kr, and it comes to the top of an already strong commitment to competence in municipalities. We also propose clarifying the legislation to ensure that professionals with the right skills are those who provide special pedagogical assistance. There are too many assistants today who do not have the appropriate skills to carry out special education, and this is not the case. We also need to strengthen the team around the children and establish better interdisciplinary cooperation. There are a lot of kids and parents who today become throwballs in the system. We're going to change that. We strengthen the interdisciplinary work in and around kindergartens and schools and propose to harmonise the provisions on cooperation for children and young people in sectoral laws. The PP service shall be more present in kindergartens and schools. The service shall work with prevention, including early action. The challenges should not grow too large until help comes. But the country's municipalities and schools are very different, and we can risk destroying more than we improve, if we detail how to do this in every municipality. We want to sharpen the mandate of Statped, and I am absolutely sure that this offers a better offer both to the most vulnerable students, who need the most pointed offer, and to all the other students who should be caught in the municipal system. In order to ensure a sound and sound process, the changes in Statped will take place over a five-year period. I think it's right to build the skills where the kids and the students are. Those who are close to their children in everyday life must have the skills to identify their needs and quickly facilitate a pedagogical offer. So I'll say a little bit about SFO. SFO is an important arena for inclusion and social cohesion. The government wants a more equivalent SFO offer in the country, and we are introducing with this communication a national framework plan for SFO, which of course will have room for local variation. We also introduce moderation schemes and free SFOs for children with special needs of 5-7. steps. We need to build a common culture for inclusion. We all need to have the same goal in mind – that all children and students get the best starting point to thrive, develop, learn and master. The notification shows that there are many municipalities that have actually succeeded in doing so, but getting more requires a change in attitude. It requires clear targets and systematic efforts at all levels of the municipality. To say that it is actually the municipalities that have to do the job is not a disclaimer. It's about placing responsibility where it belongs, and it's also about showing trust in the municipalities, because a lot of them do an incredibly good job in this area. Everyone who's been working on school policy knows it'll take time. We have to be patient, and we have to dry up the action before we turn around. We need to be prepared for time to bring about the major changes we want, and there are as many changes in attitudes and practices that need to be made more resource-efficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e653	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e658	I want to start by congratulating the Council of State on a new role. This is the third state council that is responsible for following up this important big business message. Many people are excited about what's happening now, with a new government council. I'll take this with Statped in particular. One does not get away from the fact that one has already cut, in the 2020 budget, and snuffed in the mandate, which we have had in the past. So one transfers a new task to municipalities and counties without adding new resources. That is not what I call trust, but a disclaimer from the government. Unlike the right here in the debate, I expect the Council of State has read the big message. It says that this level of competence has not yet been described; it is not yet detailed; there is not yet a model for this. My question to the Council of State is, When can we expect a model to exist, and is the Council of State in the process of getting this huge promise from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e667	Thank you for giving me the opportunity to clarify exactly this, for this is one of the most important steps taken in the message. It has been very clear, from the Nordahl Committee's report to a lot of other reports, that the support system we have today is not working well enough. We see, for example: that the municipalities that have the greatest competence themselves are the ones that use Statped the most, because they know what it means by help. We also see that there are a large number of students that the municipalities should have had the competence to help themselves – students with very common diagnostics, such as: difficulty reading and writing, dyslexia, ADHD – not being helped. What we're doing now is clarifying the responsibilities of the municipalities. The municipalities are responsible for ensuring that all students receive the help they need. Statped shall be a resource in addition to that. Statped should still have the task with the students for whom we can't expect all municipalities to have competence. The cut in Statped should of course be used to strengthen the work of municipalities with competence. So now that we're slimming down and focusing on Statped, it gives us an opportunity to make a massive transfer to empowerment in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e672	As the Council of State has come up with, an actual encroach on Statped's mandate and clips the offer that exists. That means that there will be a worse offer for them with the most common diagnostics. The students and parents who receive this offer today are concerned. There is good cause for concern, because the only government is clear, is a cut, and the Council of State cannot now describe how this new commitment of competence should be involved and contribute, except that one transfers responsibility to others. I, like many others, am therefore concerned that the offer is actually going to get worse when one really only implements a cut and only expects the municipalities to magically manage to deliver a better offer with the same resources. Can the Council of State say something reassuring to parents and the students who have these most common diagnoses, who are now worried that their offer is getting worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e679	I am absolutely sure that with this grip the students with the most common diagnostics in all the municipalities in the country will get a better offer than they have today. I'm not sure I can guarantee a social democrat that an offer can be just as good even if it's municipal and not state-owned, but for a liberal it's at least very logical. We see that many municipalities succeed very well today. Moving resources from Statped down to the municipalities is not the only grip we take. We have also launched pilot projects with many of the municipalities that are most successful in this. The knowledge we get from those projects will also be able to spread to other municipalities in this country, which can then show how this can be achieved in the best possible way. I think the municipalities have a lot of resources to solve these challenges from before. It's important that we get the skills closer to the students. Then I am absolutely sure that it is very reasonable to bet on the municipalities and county councils, rather than on a heavy state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e686	First of all, I can assure the liberalist that the social democrat loves the whole welfare state, whether it's the state, municipalities or states. So I feel a little sorry for the councillor Melby, for she has in a way taken over and inherited a classic Jan Tore Sanner airlock here. Sanner is an expert on compiling small cuts. One describes in this debate a bet of one and a half billion over ten years. As the representative Arnstad discussed in the debate: when one is going to divide this into the annual budgets and the large number of municipalities and counties one has, it is – if one is to be kind in that calculation – perhaps a small million to each municipality for a new bet and a new offer. I have also not heard that the Council of State can assure us of the time when this new, large and important model will be in place. The Council of State now replied that one should do this within already narrow municipal budgets. Can the Council of State say something more specific about when the municipal offer is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e693	First, I would like to make it clear that I called myself ‘liberals’ and not ‘liberals’. I hope the representative Tvidt Solberg forgives me – since I am a little fresh in the game – that I do not have all the numbers in my head. But this bet, 1.5 to 2 billion. kr over ten years, comes at the top of all the other efforts we've been making in recent years to increase competence and get more resource people into school. We have implemented a teaching norm, which has given us more teachers in all schools. We have had a massive reform of continuing training in recent years, which has resulted in more than 30 000 teachers being trained. There are now more qualified teachers than there have been in Norwegian school in a very long time. I noticed that the representative had very high expectations for this big message – I think it’s nice to have high expectations for the government, but to believe that one message and the three most important measures in that message are going to solve what we’re facing from major challenges is what’s an air lock. This is a long-term bet that's about building stone on stone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e700	The centre party is critical to introduce a new rigidity obligation to assess all children’s Norwegian skills before school starts. It is of course important that young people who face major challenges in language development should be closely followed up, but introducing a mandatory assessment of all children seems to us to be an unnecessary imposition and unnecessary use of resources. UNICEF states that monitoring tools are based on the idea of a normal development related to age that has a number of milestones. The limits of what becomes normal are often too narrow. This may lead to an unfortunate focus on the challenges rather than building on the strengths and mastery of children. In addition to mandatory language testing, the Government of the Left has agreed that the government will introduce a flexible school start. The combination of these two measures may be of concern. So let me ask the government council: are those kids who score the lowest on the language test in kindergarten, who are also to be deprived of the opportunity to start school with their friends?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e709	I haven't seen anyone other than the opposition parties who has made this strange connection between assessing children's language skills and opening up to try out different models for flexible school start-ups. We have not adopted a mandatory language testing, nor is there any requirement for the type of mapping tools to be used. The work we are now doing is about ensuring the quality of the mapping tool that you can use. But what we're saying is that every child should be evaluated. That's the only requirement we make. Competent professionals are able to make this assessment in a very good way, and they understand which children need more extensive screening, and who don't need it. I believe, with respect to reporting, that it would be a betrayal of children not to carry out such an assessment, and it has no connection with more flexible schooling. It is simply about giving parents more influence than special pedagogues about what ways their children should choose.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e717	Let me make it clear that it's a mandatory assessment, and then I think the different parties that are behind the requirement for language testing will have a slightly different way of expressing it. It is in the opinion of the Centre Party that there is an unnecessary rigid attitude to it, one must follow up the individual child also in terms of language development. But I have to ask: does the Council of State see no possibility at all that this combination of language testing, or language assessment, and deferred schooling can lead to an unfortunate development in which a person is at risk of stigmatizing some children — i.e. those children who score low in the evaluation of languages in kindergarten are also those who are most easily exposed to schooling and are not allowed to start with their friends, and that it may be a stigmatisation that can be unfortunate? Does the Council of State at all see that as a danger, or is there something that the government and the Council of State do not at all regard as a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e722	I'm much more concerned that kids don't get the follow-up they need. The fact that children who do not have good language skills do not receive adequate support in kindergarten and school is my main concern. So I believe that the system we have today for flexible school start-ups – it is possible to get, for example. At present, school leaving is also out of the question, based on an assessment from the PP service — with the potential to lead to more stigmatisation than a slightly more open model, where perhaps a little more children are exposed to schooling. In Denmark, for example: I guess it's up to 10 pst. of the children who have started school, and it is a model that results in less stigmatisation, as it is more common. I don't know if there's any point going all the way there. I haven't said that flexible schooling is the right solution, I just said that we have to try it out. It also recommends Camilla Stoltenberg, the head of the Stoltenberg Committee, although she was in a minority. I'm very happy that we're now getting two pilots on this, so we'll see what will be the effects, and of course we have to be aware of possible negative effects as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e727	The message states that a reduced Statped ‘reduces the need for regional adaptations. Statped shall provide services of the same level to all municipalities and counties». On the other hand, the majority of the committee, of which the minister was a part, says that it is: ‘important to take care of regional considerations and to develop strategies to support some’s major needs for the development of competences, in order to meet the provision of services to municipalities and county councils; [[...]] This largely respects the principle of equivalence which underpins the current provision of services in Statped, and which we in SV believe is important to continue to underpin the services provided. There is a need for clarification, which will be crucial for those children who need Statped's special pedagogical pedagogical competence. [[The President clubs.]] Should Statped provide services at the same level... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e742	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e747	I can try to answer, even if the representative did not complete the question. I believe that there is no contradiction here between what is in the big message and what is in the vote of the majority of the committee. It has been important to stress that a decentralised physical structure of Statped should continue to be maintained, and I believe that transferring 150-200 million. kr a year from Statped to the municipalities and county councils, which are then about having to spend the money, and they have to order the services they need, is a way of strengthening the regional perspective. But what has been important to emphasize is that this does not mean that the only jobs we're going to have left in Statped are to be concentrated in Oslo. They must have spread throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e752	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e759	The Storing Message has good intentions, and the Center Party supports lots of content. Early effort and closeness are a good starting point, and the one that should be good has to be trained. Ensuring the transition between different levels of education is important, it requires knowledge and coordination, and those who are to facilitate this and implement it, need time and resources. It says that the message is primarily about kindergartens, primary schools and SFOs, but that several measures also apply to continuing training. Support systems that cooperate with kindergartens and schools are also part of the message, and the message will have a meaning for adults with a right to training, i.e. a wide field. But that message doesn't say anything about it, is who's supposed to fund it. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party point out that there has been considerable budgeting in recent years to strengthen early efforts and quality in kindergarten and training. There they point to many measures with good intentions, but which have not been fully funded for the municipalities, for example. Staffing and pedagogical norms in kindergartens, introduction of teacher norms and free core time in kindergartens – as said: good intentions, but it also has a price. It is pointed out by the same members that: ‘It is essential that municipalities also take responsibility for ensuring that kindergartens and schools have sufficient competence and culture to create inclusive communities’. I believe – and know – that the municipalities work with each day. In general, more than 60 concrete actions have been proposed to contribute to a reinforced early effort, but out of nothing there will be anything. If there are no resources, what should be the priority over what? Unfortunately, the whole message is that the responsibility is transferred to others, especially the municipalities. In proposals for alternative budgets, we in the Central Party have seen funds to the municipalities to solve these problems, and we think that funds are going to come up with new tasks. We expect that the government will do the same, so that we get the early effort close.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e777	The most important thing on the right has been early effort, and it is not random. We know that small gaps in knowledge are growing, that the PP service spends a great deal of time on expert work, and that for many students with special needs, unskilled assistants are being followed up, and they are meeting too low expectations. Expecting too little of people is fundamentally unsocial. The Nordahl Committee and the Children's Ombudsman are crystal clear: if we're going to be able to get the competence moved into the classrooms of the children who need it, we can't go on patching up today's system, which I feel some people in this room are going to call for. Changes in culture, structure and not least competence are needed. With this big message, we are not quite in the target, and no one claims, but we are adopting some important and major steps to change the system: we are tightening up the legislation to ensure that more children are followed up by employees with special pedagogical competence, Statped is cultivated as a support system, while providing a lasting, comprehensive level of competence for municipalities and county councils. I have to say that I am quite surprised that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre today oppose some of the important, more structural changes and grips of this message, and that, in particular, the case-rapporteur and the Workers' Party are at such a polemic level from this pulpit, especially when they themselves refer to some measures where their own actions mainly call upon the government to assess, investigate or plan to achieve good ends. It's not very concrete either, rather on the contrary. It doesn't respond to the challenges that we know we have in today's school. I will end by mentioning a few measures that I am very pleased that we are adopting today, hopefully. One is the obligation to assess — not to monitor, but to assess — all children’s languages before school starts. I have visited many schools in my own town, Oslo, which discovers that almost half of the students need special Norwegian training despite the fact that very few of them received a linguistic message of concern from the kindergarten. Language work is too varied, and it is very serious when we know that children's language is important for learning and participation in games. The second thing I want to mention is the extension of the follow-up system, so that more municipalities and county municipalities that have weak results and need help can also get it within the special field of education. Here it seems as if the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have ideological opposition to saying that some municipalities have weak results and need guidance. That's what I mean by stabbing my head in the sand. The question should be how best to obtain assistance. This is not a quick fix, but with this message we are now taking some important steps in the right direction, and that's good for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e792	Everyone knows how different children can be. It's even the sibling that can be so different that you wonder if they have the same parents. These differences in children are important to take care of, because there are these inequalities that create these different and unique children, the young and adults for the rest of their lives. For the Advancement Party, it is important to see each one. It is also important that the individual receives the follow-up they need, and that it is the kindergarten and school that are to adapt to the children, not the other way around. Children shall be allowed to develop, learn and master, regardless of background, assumptions or needs. That's why early efforts are so important, and you get an inclusive community in kindergarten, school and SFO, as this big-time message adds up. A good start in a capable kindergarten is of great importance for the journey on. It is also very important to have arrangements that allow the different areas to talk to each other, that is, the kindergarten talks to primary school, that the elementary school talks to secondary school, so that those who start in kindergarten should feel valued and cared for throughout the course of education until they are completed, at least in higher education. The message also suggests that you have to look at each one, so that each student gets a better benefit from that learning, and then I think it is very good that it is set up for municipalities themselves to try out more models in this field of flexible school start-ups. Because you have to think about the children being receptive to the learning they're learning, and then the language will also be important. It's about kids in kindergarten, but especially when they're going to school. Then it must be a prerequisite that they are able to speak so well that they benefit from the teaching. On the other hand, it is also important to get even better special education, adapted to each individual child. Today, there are still some differences in the quality of the areas covered by the notification. The quality has increased a lot in recent years, but it is important that we do not stop the level of competence that we have started. Fortunately, the paper contains a number of proposals that we in the Progress Party have been working for for many years, and we therefore largely support the intentions and proposals for action to be put forward by the Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e807	This survey report contains many measures that will provide a better school, where more students are given the opportunity to: the best possible development of their capabilities and knowledge; to experience mastering, inclusion and getting a good school day; and to be able to successfully complete primary school. More and more stringent requirements are being imposed on formal qualifications in the workplace, and those who do not complete secondary education are at risk of falling outside. I would therefore like to talk a little bit about the importance of having a good, equivalent offer at all primary schools throughout the country, to all students, as a prerequisite for us to be able to achieve the goal of getting more people to complete high school. Today, the vast majority of high school students start after high school, and for most, it is something they look forward to starting. Nevertheless, the transition may be difficult for some, and it is therefore important that we have good measures in this communication that will be able to facilitate and improve the transition. Unfortunately, it is for many who go on with far too poor professional skills. Figures from the SSB show that of those students with less than 3 averages from high school, almost half are at risk of falling off. There is therefore a need for more young people to be better professionally equipped before they begin high school. That means that not least a good, adapted and inclusive education is one of the most important things we can bet on to contribute to it. Unfortunately, it is also the case that in many schools a culture of exemption seems to have been established for many students, not least students with different disabilities. Feedback from several organisations, including: Blind and Young People with Disabilities show that schools are far too exempt from courses, and can also exert pressure both on students and parents to accept exemptions — even if they really do not want to do so, and even if they believe that a well-adapted education, which they are entitled to, could have allowed the student to take the subject. I agree with the representatives from both the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and SV when they say that exemption from the syllabus can also mean exemption from learning. To exempt students from courses in this way is to do them a service of bears and give them a poorer starting point. This survey report provides a good basis for more people to be able to complete high school. However, I look forward very much to the presentation of the primary education message in the spring of 2021, both because we can build on the measures in this communication and, not least, because we can continue working with even more measures to ensure that more people can complete it. We need to achieve the goal of completing nine out of ten by 2030, and the Right objective is that at least 5,000 more students will be able to complete secondary school each year by 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e834	We are in the midst of a corona crisis, where kindergartens and schools that have been closed since 12 March should be opened carefully in the future, with adapted opening hours, training facilities, games, etc. Many have lost important knowledge and instruction during the past few weeks, perhaps especially for children and young people who need a close follow-up to education, etc. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that we have kindergartens, schools and SFOs that provide a pedagogical offer that includes absolutely everyone who goes there, regardless of social background. Being valued is about being seen, it's about being heard, and it's about being understood. Future growth is growing up, and early efforts are essential for everyone to succeed and feel that they are part of society. If we are to change practice, we depend on the government in the coming state budget and the revised state budget to allocate enough resources to what this communication is about — early efforts and closer follow-up. Then municipalities and county councils, which have the real responsibility of school owners, must have the budget and the economy to do the priorities that this point to. It is not enough to present a big message with beautiful words; it must be accompanied by means that enable these priorities to be followed up. One of the main priorities is to strengthen the finances of municipalities in the future. The Labour Party has 35 proposals to improve this big message today, proposals that give a significantly better priority. I will not mention all the 35 proposals, but I will draw up one proposal that the Labour Party is behind alone, and that is proposal No. 35 d, which is more important than ever: ‘enhancing the competence of students, teacher training and practical schools in the use of digital tools and learning methods’. The time we are in now shows that there really is a need to strengthen both competence and resources, to strengthen this work. The Labour Party will have an early strengthening of efforts, so that everyone in kindergarten and school will have a good follow-up, regardless of social, linguistic and cultural background, of gender and cognitive and physical skills. In this way, we strengthen the weakest in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e848	There has been an interesting debate to follow. This was supposed to be the discussion after six years of work, the conclusion after the government's important work, and it cannot be characterised as anything but a belly pad from the government. When the Right in addition accuses me of being polemic when I target the enormous disappointment that is out there over the defective message that has been presented, it is in a way the top of the cranesake. I encourage the government parties to revisit and read the answers we received at the hearing, listen to the professionals and perhaps review the reports that you have ordered. At least we in the opposition have done our part of the job and presented a whole bunch of proposals that respond to the challenges that could make a difference, such as: could have had PPT more in school, could have done something with AKS, could have achieved something more offensive in universal design and could have achieved something better in the transition between high school and high school. They are unfortunately voted down. The most concrete thing the government is doing is cutting Statped. Here comes someone with a huge cut. One transfers a task to the municipalities. What surprises me a little bit is that the Council of State could not, either in its statement or in the change of line, bring some news about how this great municipal commitment of competence is going to be. The message was presented in November, now we're writing in April, and it's nothing new to report from the government on how this huge promise is going to be. That means it's nothing but an airlock. There are no concrete proposals, other than a new task given to the municipalities that they now have to solve within the same budget. The representative of Gudmundsen from the Right indicated that more research is to be done. I would like to remind the representative that there is not a lack of research in this area that has been the problem, but resources and time to help the individual student. I agree that a big message with fine words can be good. I do not disagree with what the Count of the Christian People's Party points out that culture is also important, but we expect in the follow-up that the government will take its share of responsibility, follow up on the state budget and not least make sure that there are actually changes out there. We're at least going to keep up with it, because it's not much of what the government is now proposing, which indicates that there's going to be some change out there in the schools. At least we're going to keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e863	It was Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde who made me take the floor again, and her regret that the red-greens will not extend the follow-up system for schools with poor results, as the government introduced in 2017. Initially, it is positive that municipalities can receive guidance and support for quality development work, but I believe very strongly that the basis for ranking schools according to quality is not appropriate. Neither primary school credits, national test results, nor the student survey answers can express the difference in quality between schools or the quality of each school. I myself worked as a school principal, and when the results on national tests came, both I, my team leaders and the teachers at the school knew why the results were as they were. It might have been about a class composition how many required special education. It might have been about the students having had very large replacements of teachers because of illness, or other things. And when we had good results, it might have been about the opposite. I think teachers and school leaders locally know what measures are needed to raise quality and meet the needs of students in learning. Therefore, schools should be given first and foremost confidence and sufficient resources to put in place the necessary quality measures and organise the school in line with local needs, rather than putting schools under administration and using a lot of resources on national guidance systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e874	First, I just want to correct a few things that have been said. The representative Arnstad was concerned with this with the evaluation of the six-year reform. It's not true that it's only now that you've given a statement about it. It was already done in 2019, but no one responded to that mission in particular, so one has had to publish it again. But we have gained a good deal of knowledge about how the six - year reform has worked, and this has been so. used when designing the new curricula in the field of vocational renewal. It has been important for those groups that have worked with it. Then the representative Fagerås points to something she calls ranking, which I think she relates to the way you follow up the municipalities that don't do it so well. The announcement of cancellation describes very clearly that the municipalities that are experiencing help and support, among other things. from the guidance team, this feels like something very positive, which is good. So it's going to be negative for the state to step through various professional bodies and help those municipalities that feel that they're not succeeding, I find it hard to understand. It has been called for a little more clarification of what this commitment of competence will consist of, so I thought I would say a little more about it. Although I believe that Tvedt Solberg’s representative is far from polemic, I should like to give him one thing in part: in some areas, I wish we could be even more specific in the message than we are. Some of the reason is that I believe there have been many decades in which we have been too poor to acquire knowledge about what works and not in Norwegian school. There has been too little research; there has been too little follow-up research on the actions taken. We've spent a lot of resources on a special education that has proved to be ineffective in many places, perhaps even having a negative effect. But since we haven't been good enough to get knowledge of it, it's also hard to point directly to exactly what measures it is to be able to turn it around. So an important part of this message is actually also to continue the work on research and knowledge, and the creation of a dedicated centre for special education is an important measure that I don't think has been mentioned in the debate for the time being. One important point is that this level of competence has to be based on the efforts we already have, among other things. through the decentralised empowerment. It is also necessary to build on local analyses and assessments of existing competences and competence needs in municipalities. There will be very different needs in different municipalities for what they need to improve their skills to achieve the goals we have set. This work is already starting in the autumn. We've moved 25 million. kr already from Statped to this work, and the transfer of resources will take place gradually over a five-year period. It will also ensure that we do not suddenly lose any of the resources on which Statped is located, but that we gradually transfer the competences that are currently in Statped into the municipalities, into the county municipalities – close to the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e889	What made me take the floor was that I thought the representative Tvedt Solberg was a bit far from Polish. Now I think the Council of State really went quite well through some of my points in its last post here, but what I think is a little good to underline from my side, and from the government parties' side, is that this is a work that will last for a long time. We have already done well, I believe, through the range of measures we have taken since we joined in 2013. There have been many initiatives that have just stepped up — a closer follow-up, a higher level of competence out in the first line and a reorganization that makes us get the resources to reach our kids. We've been very concerned about knowledge, so when I hear the representative Tvedt Solberg say that the problem is not research – well, research is actually very important that we work continuously. We can't lean back in the chair and say that now we know everything. I think that would be an extremely passive attitude in a very complex and complex field of action. I think that we are now proposing – and setting up – a national centre of excellence, which will be involved in further development, both with the targeted services to be provided by Statped, and also in helping to support the first line, which the municipalities are to provide. It is that when you go closer to the opposition's proposals in the seams, there is – with respect to reporting – a lot of airlocks there as well. There are many of the proposals to reduce samples, and the government is asked to come back with assessments and proposals. So, in other words, you put a lot of time on, you're very, very little concrete. I also think it's a little strange that you, for example. it suggests things that are already in the Storing Communication, and then later it seems that it is a new policy, for example. transitions, which is one of the first proposals of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party, which are already part of government policy. My point is that this is an important, comprehensive work that we are doing well. This message will put in place a number of new measures that are important in order to strengthen the first line, to feed the services that are important to the various student groups. Then I understand that there will be uncertainty in all forms of migration for those affected, but the goal is no doubt: this will be better for the children. We're going to join in raising Norwegian school. Of course, we're busy working on this so that we can get even better. For the goal is the best possible school and education for our kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e902	I was accused of being polemic. I believe that such a big message deserves some debate and deserves a little disagreement. To the last time the representative Gudmundsen says: I think it's strange that one is so pleased to lay down a national competence environment in Statped, and then, at the same time, to set up – with less budget – a new national research centre to look at one of the same things, and to think that it's kind of solving it. I don't think one should be surprised that one doesn't get broad support when one does it in such a strange way, without any particular goal and meaning. I took the floor first and foremost to challenge the Council of State a little bit more on this level of competence. For the big news, there is something that the Committee was uncertain about what the Council of State meant and asked questions to the then Minister of Knowledge Skei Grande about this. The statement is accompanied by the answers to those questions, and the Council of State stresses that the Department cooperates with the Ministry of Education and the Directorate of Education on the details of the commitment to competence, and writes to the Council of State: ‘This should be decided by the summer’. In what the Council of State is now responding to, there is nothing to suggest that something new should come up, and it sounds alarming that one should base these things on DeKomp, as one already knows works badly. In this way it would be useful if the Council of State could say whether one is still planned as described, that one should get in place with this level of competence, and that a decision should be made within the summer of this new scheme, because I have not received a response to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e911	I'll try to be brief, but I just have to comment on what the representative of Fagerås came in his last post. She referred to her own experience with national tests and said that when she got poor results, she knew that it was either because they might have had the wrong student composition, that there were many who needed special pedagogical help, or that there had been a lot of exchange of teachers. But the whole point of this debate is that it's not inevitable, if you have students who need special educational help, that they learn to read, write and calculate and be able to follow the goals of competence. You get the students you get, and then it's the school's job to help them as best they can and actually manage to lift them. And for those schools that are able to do it, by seeing on national tests over several years that they are able to lift more students, it is a sign that they have worked well with good quality development. It is not possible to explain results year after year with all possible practical challenges. Finally, it's about what you can do in the classroom, what kind of support system we as politicians are able to give to schools, so that they actually have the right skills, and that you might also be able to be critical of your own practice. I think there are a lot of schools and teachers out there that are actually humble -- we're trying as best we can, we're learning from each other, we're changing the form of teaching, and we're able to help more people. It is that willingness to be critical to self-practice throughout the special educational field that will be crucial. Thinking that you have the students you have, that it's not inevitable that they should be able to learn, is about having high expectations for the students. I just want to end it, because what kind of hurts the most is talking to the students who have been given special education decisions, who say that they feel that they were stigmatized, excluded, taken out of the classroom, and that there were low expectations that they could master. Often there is mercy in it – you don't want anyone to experience that they can't do anything. The problem is that they know it anyway, and then our task is to be clear that all students can learn how to read, write and calculate. And in those municipalities that have challenges with it over time – yes, ranking I'm not interested in – they must at least get follow-up and help, for all students, wherever they live, to be able to master the school's educational purposes. I just have to stress it, because I almost got a little frustrated on behalf of politicians in this debate. It should not be the case that a decision on special education cannot be taken to master the school. On the contrary – and that is what we need to ensure through this message, which is based on everything else we have done in the last six years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e920	I got a few challenges from the representative Tvedt Solberg, whom I thought I would answer. Firstly, it is right that my predecessor replied that a plan was to be adopted for this before the summer, and we still do. That plan has to come, so that the representative can feel safe. But it'll be on an overall level. This needs to be further elaborated, together with, for example: KS and all the other actors that are so important for us to succeed in this. The representative slid with a comment that Dekomp, who works poorly, was a bad place to put this bet. First, this isn't about putting a stake in Dekomp, but it's about building on the systems we've already built for empowerment in recent years. This year we're going to spend $230 million. kr on this scheme, which has been an important step towards moving resources from just centralised schemes based on a kind of belief that everyone has exactly the same need around the country, down to schemes where municipalities and county councils can in fact demand empowerment based on what their needs are, what they need. Most of the actors involved in this scheme, most of the municipalities, report that this is a very innovative and engaging work, which provides good partnerships between universities, colleges and school owners, and that there has been a good development in this work in many places in the country. But of course, not everything works perfectly, and of course there is a need to coordinate the facilities for kindergartens and schools, and there is a need for long-termity and predictability for universities and colleges, so that they can build up their capacity and competence in order to actually offer what the municipalities and county councils are asking for. There is always a danger that the kindergartens and schools most in need of quality development will not be able to demand the services they actually need. We have to make sure that they actually join in this empowerment that we give all over the country. Now that I have the floor, I also want to say that the last few weeks have clearly shown a lot of us what school means – and not least for those students who need it most. I feel confident that the measures in this message will help us very many steps towards all children meeting a school where they are being taken seriously, helping them to solve the challenges they have. But there's no such thing as a quick fix. We have to be patient, we have to have ice in our stomachs, and we have to let the measures work over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e939	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e956	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e963	The background to this representative proposal by members of the Workers' Party is the result of the Granavolden platform, where the Government Parties and the Advance Party agreed to establish a genuine free school choice for pupils in all counties. Two different types of models were sent at the government hearing on 22 August 2019 and, as a result, the Workers' Party has proposed that the states themselves should be able to choose recording models. I think I'm going to let the different parties themselves explain their arguments and conclusions, but I just want to say that there have been thorough hearings, both written hearings on what the government provided, and then we also had our own oral hearing in the committee. In the Advance Party, we have long been a member of free school choice. We aim to shift power and decisions as closely as possible to those who will have to live with the consequences of a decision. School time is of great importance to how we feel later in life. That's why we think it should be a matter of course that you have to choose your own school, and that the students' right to decide for themselves which high school they're going to attend is more important than the county politicians' right to decide the recording model. Students are different, have different starting points, objectives and qualities, and there is a diversity of schools with different profiles, different location and organisation. We believe it is an important principle that the students themselves should be able to choose the school that suits them best. It is typical from the left-hand side to run ideological foresight on the issue of free choice, which they have done consistently over time, whether it is about allowing citizens to choose anything other than state radio and television channels, health homes or telephone companies. They're more concerned that the authorities should control people's choices. In the opinion of the Progress Party, people are fully capable of making more choices themselves. Freedom of choice must be based on something. Here, in the Progress Party, we believe that the most natural and fair thing is to compete on the basis of characters. Then there will be real competition in which everyone can participate. Ratings are already used today when you select lines in the schools. The party acknowledges that free choice of school may not be perfect, but that it is clearly the fairest solution. I therefore take up our proposal. I must conclude by saying that I am very disappointed that the government parties do not support the proposal that we are promoting today. It's almost a blueprint of what the government itself sent to the hearing in August. We just want to have it concretely now, clearly, that we want students to really have free school choices in the autumn of 2021. The government parties now choose to listen to the Christian People's Party, who want to re-fight about this. It has been well known that the Christian People's Party has called for rematch because they are dissatisfied with this point in the government platform. Now my fear is that this will not be introduced in the autumn of 2021, and I hope that representatives of the government parties can say that this is not the case, that of course this should be put in place in the autumn of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e984	The representative Roy Steffensen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e989	This is not about whether you are in favour of or against free choice of school. This issue is whether it is for a government office to be determined in the capital, or whether it is to be determined out in reality, by the states, which are closer to the need, wishes and situation out there. The Labour Party promoted this proposal because it is obvious to us that the best thing for the students, for the teachers, for the business community, for the city and for the countryside is to decide locally the admission arrangements for the higher education themselves. Let me immediately conclude that free schooling is not necessarily free, but becomes an unfree choice for very many students, either by competing on the basis of grades, or because lines or schools simply have to be laid down as a result of the government's proposal. Therefore, it is best to determine locally. The government's proposal for forced free choice of school has met with massive resistance. The answer from the county councils is no. The KS response is no. The responses of the social partners, LO and NHO are no. The teacher's answer is no. When the Right Party and the Advance Party argue that you should listen to the students, I actually encourage them to listen to the students on this matter, because the students' spokespersons in the Student Organisation also say a clear no. The opposition to the proposal is not unfounded. We have seen in this case that it is the government against the rest of the country. The proposal has a number of negative effects. This can lead to increased segregation between students, as a number of research reports point to. But it is also a threat to a decentralised school structure and to the best possible adaptability of school provision to industry in the regions. When the government parties say that this proposal can be easily implemented because the states can choose between two different models, it is wrong. That government will force the states to choose between either free school choices throughout the county or free school choices in so-called intake regions. In these intake regions, two of the same training programmes must be offered. The problem is that it is totally unrealistic to get it into a long-term country like Norway. To give an example: in Troms and Nordland, hard work has been done to make at least one of each educational programme available in each region of intake. It's spent time, resources and money on it. The government now believes that there should be twice as many offers in all intake regions — double up by cooking line, electroline and all other educational programmes. What shows that the government is so completely out of touch with reality is that there's not enough student base, there's not enough professionals, it's not good enough economy, especially after the government cut in the county budget, to get this done. An imposition of a purely character-based admission, as this is actually the case, will either lead to a reduction in regional provision and to the need for young people to move on to school or the cost of pursuing secondary education will increase dramatically. Thus, government policy is also a threat to a decentralised school structure. A little sense – if you use some sense, you can see that good high school admission systems need to balance different factors, such as students’ choices, school search, access to teacher’s powers, the need for employment, the desire to maintain scattered residence and the economy of the counties. A central coercive model of so-called free school choice will be rigid and take away the flexibility needed by districts and cities. The free choice of schools will force everyone, is not adapted to the needs, desires or industrial structures of the local government. How the government's policy actually turns out, not just on a desk in the government quarter, but out in real life, we haven't got a good answer. The only answer we get when we address these issues is that it's going to be implemented. But numbers, investigations and facts are missing. Norway is larger than Oslo. To the right, it looks like this is a pure Oslo debate. Nordland and Troms and Finnmark are over a hundred times as big as Oslo, but have less than half of the students. Nevertheless, it appears that government parties want to force the same A4 system on all counties in Norway. It's a real-world solution. It can increase the segregation between students and threaten the district schools. A better solution is to let the counties decide for themselves, based on the need out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1008	Will the representative address the proposal of which the Labour Party is part?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1013	I would love to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1018	The representative Martin Henriksen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1023	The proposal to introduce free school choice in all counties has been out for consultation. We got a lot of hearings, and many of them pointed to challenges with the two proposed models. There was clearly more negative than positive input, and of course we'll listen to all of the recordings we've got. To me, it is obvious that we need to work more on this matter in order to arrive at a model that guarantees both the students' right to choose a school, and takes care of a decentralised school structure. We have to make sure that no student gets too long a journey, and we have to make sure that business gets the skills they need across the country, while at the same time ensuring that students have the right to decide for themselves their own future. I think the vast majority of young people want to go to their high school, with their friends, but there may be a lot of reasons why a student wants to move away. They may dream of a specific school offer at a special school, or they may simply want to break out of an environment in which they don't like as well — start again, make new friends and get a new network around them. We have recently been given many examples of how it works when state politicians believe that it is the student's residence address to determine which school they are going to attend, and especially in the counties where you have gone from free school to a secondary school principle, or you have restricted the possibilities within a form of free school choice. The NRK Inland showed how incredibly poor the secondary school principle works when Erlend from Heidal does not have the opportunity to go to the school he wants, because it is the residence address and bus routes that decide. The state politicians in the Inland have decided that he must apply to Otta because the bus to the Left takes ten minutes longer, although it is only Left that can offer Erlend the opportunity to learn about plant machinery, which is what he wants. He doesn't get that at Otta, but it doesn't matter to the county. The answer they gave to the NRK was that they can't take into account details like bus routes, although it's actually the bus routes that add up to which school they're going to go to. It's almost so you can't believe it. In the Gulf the county politicians have changed the entrance areas, which means that Marius, who lives at the Nes, about four houses and a small forest cave away from the Lillestrøm municipality of the Lower Romerike, must apply to Nannestad high school far up in Upper Rome. Initially, he wants to go to Milan high school in Lørenskog, which would give him a good deal shorter travel time every single day. The parents say to the newspaper that they almost consider reporting moving, as they have also heard other parents in the area planning, possibly moving to grandparents in Lower Romerike. I think it's so silly, says the mother of Marius. In fact, I fully agree with her. The debate on the higher education admission system is based on different pupils' views. Some believe that it is most important for state policy to decide. For me and for the right, it is a matter of course that that decision should lie with the students. Right wants to make sure that all students, no matter what country they live in, are more able to choose which high school they want to attend. We want to shift more power to determine the future of the people involved, the students themselves. I am convinced that we are going to be able to find a system of free choice that ensures both the students' right to choose school and that takes care of the other objectives that I mentioned a little earlier in my article. As a comment to the representative Steffensen: I believe it is important that we now continue to work on the arrangements. I think there were legitimate responses to the challenges of the two arrangements that were outlined, so I hope that the representative Steffensen will also be there and look at how we can manage to improve the arrangements, so that we can respect all the principles that we believe are important in order to ensure that students have the right to go to high school. I believe that the work of finding an even better model for free choice of school should continue. I'm going to come back in a later post and respond a little to Henriksen's fear and fears and claims that you don't rely on numbers and statistics. Because we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1044	This case is not about being for or against free schooling, but about who should decide which model to have. Is it the county council, or is it the government – or the Stortinget? It is said that the county council has an active role to play as a social developer, mobilizing and coordinating, and it was said so fine when the county councils were merged with coercion, that it would make them more robust, stronger and more able to take on a greater role and more tasks. One of the main tasks of the county councils is just further training. It is strange that the government should then override the county councils in order to push through its policies in all the counties and decide that it should be a free school choice – which is a character-based intake. In my county, Oppland, this was a matter in common with Hedmark on 19 June 2019, with decisions on the admission requirement for further education after a broad hearing process, and a good and factual debate for or against. Such decisions have been implemented before and now in the context of the regional reform. Then, when we arrived in August 2019, the government suddenly announced that they wanted free schooling in all the counties. They would override the processes and decisions that were made. So this is not supposed to be able to pick the state itself anyway. The central party regards the continuing schools as an important part of regional development, in close cooperation with local needs, both public and private. For this reason, it is both right and right that the county authorities themselves should decide what is best in their county and provide the best solutions for them. But regardless of the model, there will be someone who will be disappointed, or borderline case, but it can also be resolved in the Inland, as it was pointed out here before. The aim of the regional reform of the government was to bring about greater and more functional county municipalities to strengthen both local democracy and growth power, and to lay the basis for better cooperation with other regional actors and to provide a stronger social development – a social development in all parts of the country, based on regional advantages, leadership and priorities. And then the county councils won't even be able to decide which model is best for their own states – so much for local democracy. It would only be lacking if the county councils were not to have the right to decide for themselves what type of recording model a would like and which is most desirable for their own states.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1059	It is completely incomprehensible that the government will legislate a ban on a fairer admission system in high school and force a system down the counties leading to inequality and a-schools and b-schools, which will allow many students less freedom to choose school and will provide students with longer travel routes. It's a bluff to call this free school choice. It's a cheap marketing line from the Right. It's a pure character-based recording they want to legislate. This means that very many students are unable to choose. In Oslo, free choice of schools has led to considerable differences between schools. The aim of the City Council in Oslo is to find a recording system to ensure that as many as possible complete and pass the training, and a more diverse composition of the students, in terms of both grades, living conditions and gender. In the huge new state of Troms and Finnmark, the ban will lead to a student from Gamnes in Harstad being forced to attend school in Gamvik in Finnmark – 14 hours away by car. This is a declaration of war against local democracy. The government once again shows that it gives the bluff of social segregation in cities and centralisation in the districts. In February of this year, the then knowledge minister Trine Skei Grande answered a written question from the undersigned, who I believe should get the government parties and the Progress Party to put this whole matter away. In my written question, I asked the Minister of Knowledge if there is a legal basis in the law to change the regulation, as the government has requested. In its reply of 27 February of this year, the Minister for Knowledge and Integration stressed that there is probably not unlimited access for the Ministry of Knowledge to impose specific admission arrangements on county municipalities. It was a consultation call from the KS that made me aware that the government is not allowed at all, to say it in simple and good Norwegian, where one doubted whether the government is at all authorized to implement the proposed regulation. KS pointed out that the introduction of a State scheme for character-based admission into county municipalities violates both the intentions of the municipal law, the state's own guidelines for the design of laws and regulations aimed at the municipal sector and the quality agreement between the government and the KS. The clarification by former Minister of Knowledge and Integration Trine Skei Grande should have implications for the government's conclusion on the matter. Instead of considering whether to adjust the legal framework, the government should, in my opinion, scrape the whole proposal, which has encountered massive resistance in the consultation rounds. Norway is a long-distance country with large local differences. Good solutions for schools and students are best localised. This proposal cannot be interpreted as anything but a desperate attempt on the part of the Oslo Right to put jaws in the wheels of the Red-Green City Council in Oslo. The government has set heaven and earth in motion. School-Norway has been in the head to deliver hearing replies and to participate in hearings. Now it turns out that the government has managed to do all of this without having a legal basis for it. There has been an unnecessary load on all affected persons. Unnecessary anxiety and fear have been created.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1079	The left wants students to have great freedom of choice in high school. We are concerned that at the same time we need to ensure that the models of how this is done do not give students an unreasonable long journey or make more young people have to move on to the cabin in order to be able to go to high school. This is possible to combine. For many years different counties have had different forms of free choice, which have been widespread uprisings, and which have worked well. There may be a lot of reasons why students want to go to a different school from the secondary school. There may be a desire to change the environment, the possibility of different courses of study or other reasons. After the regional reform, many high school students now have limited options. The Left considers this to be very worrying. This is also happening in my home country, the Week, and it affects a lot of students. I trust that the government will follow this up in a good way to ensure that students' freedom of choice is respected, and that a decentralised school structure is maintained at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1088	The decision on recording models for secondary schools that deviate from today’s model, where the states themselves decide how this should be done, is a large, comprehensive and in many ways intrusive process. It concerns a particularly important point of intersection between the rights of students, the overall perspective of municipalities on dimensioning and local adaptations and social and economic considerations. These shall all be balanced against each other and balanced. We in the Christian People's Party believe that an admission system for high school should contribute to fulfilling more important considerations. As far as possible, an attempt should be made to meet students' wishes. However, it is equally necessary to take into account a decentralised school structure and the importance of secondary schools as centres of competence in the different parts of the county. The government now has a review of the consultation recordings. That's why we wait for the first time to review the input and the government's further handling of this matter before we can finally land on a model that can combine these different considerations in the best possible way. We need a device to take care of both the student's travel path, a decentralised school structure and business needs. We also need to assess how the character-based admission system will function freely in relation to the objective of countering social segregation and the government's goal of completing nine out of ten higher education institutions. At the same time, we in the Christian People's Party believe that finding the good models should seek both to maintain established professional environments and to ensure decentralised infrastructure. However, the interests and employment of the labour market towards stability and long-term sustainability, and not least a proper dimensioning in relation to needs in the short and longer term, should also be taken into account. We also feel that it would be unfortunate if a number of new offers were to be made to ensure choice between two schools, although neither student base nor labour market needs nor access to apprenticeships so warrant. It will provide a significant additional cost for both the county and society in general. In addition, one must also look at the regional reform, which now makes the county more important than before in terms of responsibility for building up skills in the region. New tasks have been transferred from state to state. We must therefore ensure that new input models do not undermine the increased responsibility of the counties now. In order to ensure this, county councils must be given a space for action in order to maintain a decentralised school structure. In addition, county councils will have difficulty in dimensionalising without any administrative power in this area. The influence of the parties in the process must be taken into account, and the responses to the hearing indicate that we have not yet found the optimal solution. The Granavolden platform is leading us to explore different models of free school choice that guarantee students the right to choose school and that take care of a decentralised school structure. The Christian People's Party believes that there is still a need to do more investigative work to find the optimal solution. We therefore meet the government's further work in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1103	The Granavolden Platform states that the government will ‘set out different models of free school choice that guarantee students the right to choose a school and that take care of a decentralised school structure’. The government therefore sent at the hearing two alternative devices of free school choice in the autumn of 2019. Both models sent at the hearing are intended to give students greater freedom of choice, while taking into account a decentralised school structure. For students living in counties who do not currently have free schooling, the place of residence is essential for which secondary school they are able to apply for. The government's proposal is to give students greater freedom of choice. Being able to choose is important for many young people, and when you apply for higher education, it is for most of the first time that you make a big choice that is important for the further direction in life, and it means a lot to many students. There may be a lot of reasons why students want to go to a different school from the secondary school. Some people want to change the environment and make new friends, or there may be special subjects that are offered only in some schools. The government’s proposal for free choice of school means that students can apply to secondary schools in the county they themselves want to attend, regardless of where they live or where the school is located. The government also shares the goal that more people have taken up here, that students should not get a long way or have to move out of their homes as far as possible. Therefore, it was important for the government that both models that were sent to the hearing open up so that the states could take account of the route and transport options in their input models. Just before Easter, we received the summary of the hearing opinions from the Education Directorate. Although I am basically in favour of free choice of school, of course, we need to listen to the counter-conceptions that emerged at the hearing, and to ensure that we do – even better – balance the free choice of students with local freedom to design models that work across the country. We are now going to continue to work to assess how such models can possibly be set up, and the Granavolden platform, the work on new training laws and the learning message about higher education, which we are doing well, will, of course, be an important help in this work. But I have to add, perhaps in the light of the proposals of the Progress Party, that in view of the situation we are now in, there is also a likelihood that this work will take a little longer than originally planned. Finally, I would like to comment on the discussion of law enforcement. The Ministry's assessment is that we have a legal basis to determine this. The Training Act § 3-1 eighth paragraph states that ‘the Ministry provides for admission’, and our assessment is that this provides a basis for laying down rules on the free choice of schools. What I'm doing is that the whole background to this proposal for a representative is that one wants to establish in the Training Act that it is the county municipality that should have the right to decide the recording model. And the reason why there's a need to determine it, from the point of view of the opposition, is that it's not in the Training Act today. The Training Act does not state that the county council has this competence, but it is correctly mentioned in the preparatory work. As KS also raises this issue, it is clear that in further work it is right to assess whether it is right at the same time to tighten up the legal framework so that it becomes even clearer who has this competence. Of course, we have the full opportunity to do that. So that discussion I think seems a little bit strange, all the time that's what's actually going to be in the Training Act, which we're discussing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1120	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1125	What's interesting in today's debate is that we now hear a slightly different tone from the government parties than before, after the hearings, both in the Education Directorate and in the Education and Research Committee, showed massive opposition to government proposals. The two models presented by the government have proved to be completely unrealistic. Either you have to have two educational programmes in each so-called region of consumption, which you may have neither students nor finances, and then you have to go over to the other one very often, which is free school choice throughout the county, with the consequences it has with closures in the districts, because we know that then more students will go to the cities. The consequence of the models the government first presented was that the result for very many students would not have been that they had two educational programs available, but zero, because of closures. It is a little strange that the government first makes a proposal – and then afterwards discovers that it is completely unrealistic. My question to the Council of State is whether the government is planning to remain firm on the one main proposal on free choice of school throughout the county as a rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1132	Thank you for the question. If you believe in democracy, you must also believe that it actually has a purpose to submit proposals to the hearing. What's on the Granavolden platform is just that you have to explore models for free choice of school, and the fact that when you hear these models, I think I belong naturally in such an investigation. First, I'm not so surprised that county politicians want to retain the right to decide for themselves. What comes out here, I don't think anything surprising is new, but what I think the hearing showed in a lot of ways is weaknesses in the models we presented. I definitely believe that there is a need to repair those models if we are to introduce a free school choice across the country. So we're set to listen to the recordings and see how it's possible to create a good model that ensures freer school choices across the country. We have no desire to make solutions that give strange local responses, as many have mentioned here in the debate. For us, it's important to be able to avoid just that kind of unfortunate effect. That's why we want to keep working on the recordings that have been made, to make an even better suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1141	I think it is very good that the Council of State says you should listen. This leads, among other things, to: to avoid perhaps the most unrealistic and remote models, which should never have been introduced in the first place. You don't necessarily have to listen to state politicians. You can start by listening to the students and the student organisation. I heard that the Council of State maintained the objective of free schooling throughout the country. The main model that the government wanted was free choice of school throughout the county. I wonder how many people in this room have been driving from one end to the other of the new large district of Troms and Finnmark. I have. I've driven from Harstad to Tana and the Churches. The shortest route is through two other countries and takes between 12 and 13 hours, through two other countries. It is totally unrealistic to believe that this should be carried out simply in such a state, with one region of intake and free school choice throughout the county. Is it that the government still insists that there should be the main model in the free choice model they provide?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1148	As I remember it, it wasn't a main model and a side model. I guess they were equal, the two models that were put to the hearing. In this debate, it seems that something is drastically changed if we were to introduce free school choices. It is worth mentioning that Troms and Finnmark have had free school choices over a long time, but with ingesting regions, which thus slightly restrict the way this free school choice takes place, taking into account, among other things, among others. regional differences and ensure that pupils do not get too long travel distances. That's exactly why there was an important element in one of the two models that the government sent out. I believe that there is a very good chance that the possibility of ingesting regions will also be included in further work on free choice of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1155	Finnmark has had free school choices, Troms have had entrance regions, and the state politicians in Finnmark signalled before the local elections last year that they wanted to explore a model different from the free school choices they've had there. Maybe the government's proposal now puts its foot down for it. The challenge now is that the government has created great uncertainty in the states among the students about what is to come, and we do not yet know what is coming. The only thing we know, based on the debate we've had in the Chamber today, is that it looks like the most important thing for the government is that the states shouldn't be able to decide this on their own, although it's the ones that are closest to the needs, desires and situation locally. In the previous debate, the Council of State was keen to trust the municipalities. Now it seems like the state is the answer. Can the Council of State give us some clues as to what the government now sees, so that those who sit out there and plan for the next school years actually have something to do with?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1164	It is true that both municipalities and county municipalities are closer to the student than the state, but the student who is closer to the student is the student himself. And this is about strengthening the student's right to a free choice of school, not about strengthening the state policy's right to rule over the students. But what I think state politicians all over the country should be safe about is that we are actually listening to the recordings that have been made. We take this with us in a thorough assessment, and we're also concerned about listening to all students, not just to organisations representing the students, but to all students. That is why we also want to continue working on this, while working on a reform of higher education where an important component is – yes, now it may be a little bad with travelling ahead, but where we are at least in different ways visiting schools and talking to both students, teachers and principals, and ensuring that we are able to straighten out a system that best caters for different needs and needs for students across the country, not for state policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1171	I'm glad the Council of State still says that it's a goal to get free choice of school. Then I hear that it's not just the state politicians talking about the right to rule the students. I also hear that the representative of the Christian People's Party is very much talking about the need for state politicians to have that opportunity with the regional reform, and he made it clear that there is still a need for more investigations. It also mentioned the Council of State itself, and then I wonder: Can the Council of State guarantee that free schooling is in place for all students in the autumn of 2021, or will there be further delays?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1179	In the proposals sent at the hearing, the progress plan was that this could be implemented from the autumn of 2021. Since there were so many objections to the models that I believe there is a legitimate need to continue working with them, and also given the situation we are now in, where I believe that both the department, county councils and the whole of School Norway have to use their resources for a little other things, I cannot guarantee that this can be introduced from the autumn of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1184	This debate is opening up a little bit. Now the Council of States cannot guarantee that this will happen in 2021. The state is going to travel around and talk to the states, the students and the schools, there's going to be further investigations, and there's some confusion about whether there's a legal basis. But what's common is that now the state is the answer, not the county municipalities. This debate on character-based admission is, in fact, an urban debate. In my constituency, Nord-Trøndelag, this is very little a problem. The representative Kristensen gave some examples, and I can also take an example. Today, you have free school choices with high school credits in the Nord-Trøndelag. It's eight miles from Grong High School to Steinkjer High School. If a student doesn't get into his secondary school in Grong, will the council then recommend that a student use his freedom of choice to commute eight miles?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1191	I think it's a little strange that you're trying to put this debate into a city/country perspective. There are a lot of people -- what to call it -- districts who have practiced free schooling, and the more big cities that haven't done it, and there are very different reasons for it. I also think we have to go a little bit away from the notion that the ‘district’ is one thing. I define myself to be from the district, from the municipality of Orkdal in the South-Trøndelag, a medium-sized municipality a bit away from a larger city. If I was going to go to what was then a public school, I didn't have much choice, then I had to go to the nearest school. But there were several schools within a half - hour bus tour that I could easily go on if there were free school choices. Our cities are quite complex and different. Our counties are quite complex – and it's hunting me in the district as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1198	For us in SV, the county council's right to decide the recording model for secondary school is strong. Norway is a long-distance country with large local differences, and good solutions for school and pupils are best localised. The Red-Green City Council in Oslo is working today to find good and fair solutions to mitigate the differences in Oslo school. There is a sample that has presented its report to the City Council in Oslo. Is this a work the Minister believes the City Council should continue, or will the Minister actually have three character-based admissions at the bottom of everyone, so that this work now done to ensure that as many as possible are implemented and maintained, and to get a more diverse composition of students, will be possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1205	Oslo is one of the counties that have practised free choice of schools over a long period of time, and an important reason why it has been to give students equal opportunities, regardless of residence address, to apply to schools throughout the county, a group with relatively small geographical distances. I believe that the work of the Oslo City Council is very interesting, and that investigation also gives us very much useful knowledge. I think it makes sense that this work is followed up further. What is also interesting is that this investigation does not establish that neither freer school choices nor a geographically controlled school choice — none of the models — fully address all the challenges we see. I believe that the investigation that has been carried out shows that all the models on which we land have their advantages and disadvantages, and then we are actually left with an ideological or fundamental choice: who should decide? Are they the students themselves, or are they the state politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1212	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1219	Pressing county municipalities to introduce character-based admissions is directly undemocratic, given that it is the county municipalities that are both to build and operate secondary schools. It's those who bring up students in high school, it's those who are responsible for the funding, and it's those who are responsible for the dimensioning, in close cooperation with municipalities, host municipalities and business. Character-based recording threatens the decentralised school structure of our states. In Trøndelag, we have 32 secondary schools. For example, Selbu may be a secondary school. There's a low student base. The closest competitor is Ole Vig high school in Stjørdal, and if many students apply for it from a character-based admission, it would threaten Selbu high school. That is, all students, young people, who live in the mountain region, must travel very far. This school structure is built in close cooperation with host municipalities and businesses, based on jobs that are required around the world. In an open democracy, the Hearing Officer is important so that government and the Storting can get important input and corrections on issues to be addressed. In this case, there were very many proposals, both in the written hearing and not least in the consultation round here in Stortinget, from hearing bodies of great importance for the development of the school. The Council of State just said in line that she has faith in hearings, and that it constitutes our democracy, and now the Council of State is going to go around to get a little more answers. But I think she's not going anywhere. It's just to go into the consultation documents and look at what student organisations, what the Health Directorate, KS, the Education Association, Statped and the Public Health Institute say. Everyone warns the government against having a character-based recording. We can only imagine a situation during this coronary crisis in which the government should have opposed the Health Directorate, the Public Health Institute and all national councils, and that the Council of State had stood here and said: No, we do not want this, because we have more faith in our own assessments! We could never have accepted that. And here a group of Norway, at all levels of education, says that we don't have to do this. Then I would like to say to the Council of State, follow the hearings that have come, and put this away. Let the county councils, as owners and managers of secondary education, and who know the local market, take this responsibility — not on behalf of, but with, the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1230	I think it's wise that the government now looks at different options for free choice of school, where you try to deal with the different considerations. The right position has been and is that the school is for the students, not for the state politicians. So when the representative Arnstad says that the answer is the state politicians and not the state, we say that the answer is the students and not the state politicians. And when the representative Asphjell says that states build and run the high schools, I agree with that, but it's the students who go there. This student view is at the bottom of this discussion. The reason I took the floor was because the representative of Fagerås boasted a lot of the process in Oslo. Oslo may be one of the states that has gone first to show that you are very busy discussing how to distribute students between schools, and a little less concerned about how to follow up those schools that have major and major challenges. There have now been several million dollars spent on a sample that recently produced a report. That report is, of course, a great achievement for the City Council. First, many different theoretical variants of lottery and quota have been evaluated, and then it is concluded that free choice of school, despite its weaknesses, is the best and the fairest. The only option they want to explore is a progress-based model. It is then an input model where 13-year-old students are to be divided into different mastering categories, based on how good they are in 8th grade. Then they're going to compete with the others in their mastermind category to get up the most through youth. That means that a student who gets a tree in grade 8 and a 4 in grade 10 will have to choose a school in front of someone who's been working evenly and hoarded and got fours all the way. The reason why I mention this recording model is that it says something about breaking a fundamental principle of fairness and fairness for the students. Incentives to make it the worst possible for students in 8th grade, and then to have an outstanding improvement in 10th grade, are simply to ask that students try to trick the system and not work hard enough, or perform worse on the tests they have. Freedom of choice has its challenges, but it is worth mentioning that very many of those who have free choice of school have had a tremendous improvement in the implementation of high school. Finnmark has had a strong increase, while having fewer absentees. Oslo has had an increase from 65 pst. implementing, for more than 80 pst. Even many of the schools that have the biggest challenges, the ones we talk about as those schools that nobody wants to apply to, are able to lift more students than the national average in many places. We have to have that in the back of our heads. I think it's primarily the students who should have greater freedom to decide, and then I think we can find a good model for it. That's what I hope we can do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1243	It is natural to want to get an overview of the benefits and potential challenges of implementing a change. And changes can cause fear. But who really creates fear in this matter, to which the representative of Fagerås pointed? Well, at least it helps the representative of Fagerås and part of the other opposition politicians in this room when they startle with both the one and the other, when there are actually both numbers, statistics and research that show that fear is unfounded. Let me take some of these things for myself. Fear of destroying a decentralised school structure: 14 of the 19 former states, which is what we have figures for, have had some sort of decentralised school structure. And when large-distance states get residents and difficult geography, like, for example. Troms, Finnmark and Sogn and Fjordane, have managed to maintain a decentralised school structure after having had this system for many years, I have a great deal of faith in finding solutions for the other states as well. Fewer will be granted the first choice, it is said. In Buskerud, where the secondary school principle applies, get 83 pst. the first choice has been met by the applicants. In Finnmark and East Agder, who have free school choices, the number is 91 pst. It's getting worse, and we're pushing the students out of high school, it's said, but there's nothing to suggest that free choice of school is less effective. In Sogn and Fjordane, who have free school choices, and in Akershus, who have had free school choices within defined input areas, carry out more than 89 pst. Unfortunately, Eastfold, who followed the principle of secondary school, has the greatest apostasy. Only 73 pst. implements. There'll be more residents, it's said. But in Finnmark — after the Workers’ Party introduced free school choices in 2012 — there have been no more residents. The numbers indicate that it has actually become a lot less. And we have research that shows that it produces better results, and that there is nothing that causes worse implementation, etc., among other things. from Sandsør near NIFU. There is a danger of a long journey, it is said. Well, there are also ways to make sure that it doesn't. For example, in the Viken and Akershus there are: set by a certain proportion of spaces to ensure that no one gets it. Character-based recording is unfair, it's said. I just want to remind the representative Asphjell that the primary school principle is also character-based when there are more applicants than there is room for. So to almost the most important thing: it was just to be lacking that the county councils should not have the right to choose the device, said the representative Hove. For us in SV stands the county council's right to decide this strongly, said the representative Fagerås. That's where we're back to the differences in student vision. I really think that it should just be missing that it is not the students who are going to have the right to choose high school. But if you think it's more important to ensure the rights of state policy than to guarantee students' rights, I understand that someone thinks it's acceptable with the unfortunate consequences we've seen, but I just don't understand that it's possible to accept it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1264	I believe that this debate has shown that it was an unrealistic and realistically remote proposal that the government came along with, from which they are now withdrawing. That's good, but they're holding on to the ideological conviction, which doesn't fit well in the rest of the country. It was said here in the debate from the Right that this is about different pupils' vision. What kind of student vision is it to not listen to the students' clear desires? I would like to quote what the Student Organisation said at the hearing of the Education and Research Committee in this matter: ‘The only right thing to do is to let this be decided locally with input from the students themselves.’ – The only right thing to do, definitely local with the recordings from the students themselves. The student organisation also said that they experience being heard in the counties. The impact on students of a purely character-based admission to districts is, as we know from experience, that applications then enter cities, and lines in the districts are at risk of being closed down. Many students will be able to get a longer journey, and that's different in Norway. In Oslo or elsewhere, maybe the nearest high school is a trip away. In Troms, Finnmark, Nordland, Hordaland and in some other counties there are maybe two to three to four hours by bus. One cannot create an A4 solution that suits everyone, and force those students who may need the most to be at their home and keep their network, to have a much longer route. I think it's a good point to bring up those students who might need to change school, who need to get to a new environment. All the counties currently have a special recording if necessary. Many people have their own allowances and opportunities to search elsewhere, and we might be able to use those systems. But in the system we have today, it's possible to use your head. The question is whether it is better that the head is in the county closer to the students than in the government quarter in Oslo. It was said that this is a city debate. Yes, to the right it seems as if it is just that, a city debate, something the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde confirmed. She went straight into the debate on the recording system in Oslo. My appeal to the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party is: Take that debate out in the counties about what fits best in the counties. Do not force an A4 solution on all counties in Norway. I'm left with one question, and that's: is it that there's free school choices that need to be made to get better implementation and better results in high school? The answer to that is obviously no. The states and schools that are going to do the job don't get one new teaching position, not one new crown in the budget from this government. All they get is they get one or two A4 solutions that don't fit them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1283	I felt the need to take the word when Martin Henriksen was up here, because there is no doubt that the government has both given the states more resources and has never talked about any A4 solution. It's completely wrong, what the representative says. This is not a city issue or a district issue, this is a right issue, a question of what right students should have to choose their own future and take control of it. I think it is important to clarify from this platform that when you tell from the government that you are working on the matter, it is precisely because you have to take care of different concerns and balance them up against each other. This does not mean an A4 solution, but it means that you can take care of the necessary flexibility required by a long-term country with different frameworks and different realities, while at the same time laying down the principle that students should have free choices, and freer than you experience in some county municipalities today, which is based on the principle of primary school — and thus undermines the students and their future possibilities. That is what this debate is about: the rights – nothing else. Then, of course, we're going to work on the models and come back to a solution that I think takes into account the concerns and takes into account the considerations that have emerged in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1299	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1316	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1323	I assume that it is the great interest in this case that the Grandfather has taken over the management of the meeting, and that we have up to several government councils present in the hall! The matter is simply about who will have access to Norwegian airports and other aviation facilities, and what rules we need to regulate this. Air traffic control carries out background checks on persons required to have access to such facilities. Aviation is characterised by high safety and clear rules, including: on who will have access to important infrastructure. Persons representing a safety risk are not desirable to have access to security restricted areas in aviation. This is where the question of whether accreditation comes in. Accreditation requirements allow searches to be made on police and PST records in order to determine whether persons represent a safety risk. We don't want them to have access to aviation installations. Accreditation is already required for persons required to have access to security restricted areas in aviation and, as the Committee considers, the proposal by the government is a clarification of the applicable law. It is important that we have good arrangements for this, as the Committee underlines in its position. The Committee fully agrees here. The government is working on a new comprehensive regulatory framework in this field. On the part of the Workers' Party, I would like to point out that it is important in this work to respect the rights of employees in aviation, and that we have legislation that respects the rights of employees. We need strict rules, but they also need to safeguard the situation and rights of employees. This we can come back to later. More than that, it would not be necessary to say in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1338	I would like to thank the representative Myrli for a good explanation of this matter, and I would like to thank the Stortinget for the treatment that has been carried out. I am very pleased that there is a consensual committee that joins the presented, precisely because the security at the airports is very important. In view of the fact that Myrli had such a good explanation of the matter, I would actually only add a few leads. In July 2018, the State was sued by two people who did not receive accreditation. They believed that the Ministry of Transport did not have the authority to adopt the regulation. The state lost in the first instance. State appeals to law enforcement. The case-law of the Law Court was implemented on 12 February 2020, and the case-law of the Court of Justice on 12 March 2020. That's where the state got support. The opposite has now been brought before the Supreme Court. The Ministry of Transport has been sued in addition to an accreditation case, but the case has been suspended on the demand of the counterparty while a waiting for a decision in appeal proceedings. In order to ensure that we have the right to perform accreditation of the person assigned to work in the security restricted area of an Airport, the Ministry of Transport has proposed this amendment to the Aviation Act. In addition, I can state that the EU has now adopted changes to the pan-European background inspection legislation. The change includes, inter alia: from 31 December 2020, the verification of intelligence and all relevant information shall be required as part of an extended background check. It is possible that the implementation of this legislation will be delayed due to the situation we now have with covid-19. This change is equivalent to the background check we are doing in Norway today. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Justice and Defence are in the process of clarifying the design of a permanent system for the control of persons with access to security restricted areas now. The ratios pointed out in the configuration of the Committee's members from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party will be followed up in the work on the permanent arrangement. I hope those members will notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1351	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1368	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1375	We in the Committee on Legal Affairs have dealt with this temporary act in a proper way during a week. We have done so to contribute to the necessary measures and to put in place changes to help Norwegian businesses and key jobs that are now at risk of going bankrupt following the corona outbreak. I want to start by thanking the Committee for a very good cooperation – a little intense – and good negotiations. At a time when a lot of businesses are getting tough, it's important that we at Stortinget suggest that businesses don't go overboard. It can actually experience good and healthy businesses when the cash flow in a period suddenly stops altogether. The Committee believes that effective restructuring rules can help companies that would, under normal circumstances, be successful, to a greater extent now be afraid and important jobs and values secured. With the changes Stortinget adopts today, an easier way to get additional credits and loans is needed to get over the knee. It's especially important that new credits are given superpriority, which means that they are secured over older ones. Governments must also take note of the clear guidance provided by the Judicial Committee. There is a joint committee that thinks that the government has to follow closely the way this law works along, and that the government has to come up with amendments if it turns out that the device does not give the result we want. Such an ongoing evaluation will also provide the basis for assessing an extension if it appears necessary. The Committee believes it is important to stress whether the measures have had a beneficial effect, for example. whether small and medium-sized enterprises apply the rules to an adequate extent and whether the rules provide workers with the necessary protection, as provided for. The main rule of this temporary law involves the possibility of adding to the discussions and being consulted during reconstruction negotiations. But there is also an exception where the government in regulation may allow the right not to mention the creditor selection for the smallest companies. In this way, the vote will also be removed from the government's proposal. I am therefore pleased that there is a joint committee which today proposes to ensure that the addition is heard in all reconstruction processes. The Committee therefore makes a proposal to ensure that this must be done when the government formulates such regulations. If the right after this fails to identify a creditor selection, make sure that they are added in a different way. In times of crisis, we also need to ensure that the right and protection of workers are guaranteed, and that is now achieved, with the proposal adopted by the Committee today. Statistics from the SSB from 9 January 2020 show that it is less than 5 pst. of all companies in Norway that have added more than 50. The Labour Party believes it is basically and really important that it is the general rule of the law that should be used primarily in these important processes. As you can see from the setting, the Labour Party believes that there should be a roof of 30 people defining what should be small businesses, and we suggest it as a proper proposal. It is important that we now make available all the necessary and effective tools that can help as many companies as can afford through the crisis we are facing. If these rules are applied in a timely enough way, we think they'll be able to make a difference for a lot of companies with additions that can get their jobs cut. With fewer jobs, we will be able to have lower turnover, which in turn results in even fewer jobs. This negative spiral will help us in the Working Party to change everything we can in this process. If we don't do this, it could challenge our common well-being. The Norwegian model is a very important contribution to ensuring this, and I am pleased that they are also adding their voice now, through the committee debate, is secure. As you can see, there is a joint committee that is behind the recommendation. SV has warned, in their own proposals, that they vote against § 66 no. 3rd@item: inlistbox The SV representative will do something for himself. Otherwise, I take up the proposal that the Labour Party is behind, and thank you again for a good cooperation in a very important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1400	The representative, Lene Wagslid, has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1405	I would also like to thank the Committee for its extremely good cooperation in this matter. Koronacrisa definitely puts us on trial, too, and it's fast when we're going to only talk about important measures for businesses, in a very short time. I would particularly like to thank the chairperson of the Justice Committee, who has managed this work in a forward-looking way. The proposition we are discussing today contains a number of measures to make the reconstruction process for businesses simpler and more efficient. The aim of these changes is for several enterprises to have a simpler regulatory framework to comply with, as well as for the measures to contribute to the survival of a potential bankruptcy. Among other things, we are opening negotiations on reconstruction to be initiated earlier than today, and it should be easier to adopt a reconstruction plan. In addition, we are opening up to make it easier to sell the company and convert liabilities into share capital. It also opens up that banks can get first priority for their mortgage if they come to meet the companies with new loans. On the part of the Storting, all parties to the Judicial Committee have ensured that, in cases where the right is not likely to include the selection of creditors, discussions are to be held in all companies. All parties to the Committee are also concerned that it is important that this right be guaranteed for them to be added, including in small and medium-sized enterprises. We are also some of them that the government will consider whether the law works in the future, and that this assessment will consider whether the law will help companies to live longer, and that the interests of the contributors and shareholders are best protected. An ongoing evaluation of the laws is particularly important for a relatively short period of time, and it is important to have a good basis for evaluating the measures so that they can either be extended or changed to the best interests of businesses. I would also like to associate a comment with the life of the law. We think the promise has to get a good time to work. Reconstruction processes tend to take a long time, and if the government is to have a good basis for evaluating the law, it is in our opinion necessary for it to work until 1 January 2022 – as the government has suggested. I would also like to know why the government party does not support proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and SV. It has its background in that we don't want to define what is considered a small enterprise on the basis of a concrete number of additions. There may be a need for simplified rules for enterprises with more than 30 added, and there may also be a need to apply the general rules for enterprises with less than 30 added. We want this to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, so that the companies follow the set of rules that best suit the situation of the individual company. For the government party, flexibility on a case-by-case basis has been decisive to arrive at this conclusion. I would like to thank you again for a good cooperation in a hectic legislative process. So much of a deal across the party lines shows that we intend to cooperate well when the country and our businesses really need us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1424	Let me start by commending the Minister of Justice and the Government for quickly getting this case to Stortinget. At the same time, I would like to pay tribute to our committee leader and to the good cooperation of the committee, and to the speedy handling of the matter, as the chairman of the committee pointed out, of one week. It's important. It's important when we see the signals we have to take over, when we read in the media every single day – last of all today, with the SSB's description of the decline in gross domestic product – about what are dark clouds in the sky in the future. It is a reality, we have to deal with it, and we also have to adapt to it as best we can. This, I think, is a very good law, because it provides opportunities for companies that in the long term can have a large potential, and which in the long term are highly viable, but which in an acute situation here and now are at risk of going bankrupt. In this context, reconstruction will be an alternative which means that we can save more businesses and lay the basis for taking care of more jobs. It can only be of the good. I might even go as far as to say – and you will come back to this, because this law is temporary, which many people have been involved in – that there may be a lot of talk that it is in any case right to have this kind of opening and regulation. I record in the media a little of the popular mention of this and comparing it with the American system of Chapter 11. It might not be a completely hopeless comparison, because I think a lot of people have noticed that the system you have in the United States, which might facilitate a more dynamic business, has been successful. It may be that in the process that will be involved in a permanent law, where experience is gained and reviewed, you may also be able to make the law even better. But our starting point is that this is very good. I'm glad that the Storting shows the will and ability to take over the crisis we're in. This is a serious crisis and a challenge for the industry and jobs of the time to come. The size also turns out to be great, taking responsibility and dealing with it, across all parties, as best we can. We come up with new rules that make it possible for us to do just this – save businesses and jobs. There's a lot of people who know about uncertainty out there. Then our first job as trustees in the National Assembly is to make sure that we do all we can to take care of the jobs of most people out there. I thank you for your cooperation. I think once again that here we see the Storting at its best, in cooperation with the government: we get things out quickly and make good decisions that make us – given the difficult situation – the best way to deal with the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1437	First of all, I would like to thank the other members of the Committee for their good cooperation in a very quick examination of this proposition, and a special thank you to the case-speakers, Mr. Wagzlid, for a very good effort. The centre party is busy helping both the companies and the workers in these difficult times, and that's what we have in mind. through the broad similarities that have been established here on the Storting in the last weeks. Some companies have come or will unfortunately face a very difficult economic situation as a result of the coronary apathy and the restrictions put in place. A law that promotes both a faster process and greater flexibility is important in order to avoid unnecessary bankruptcy and job losses in the future. Effective restructuring rules can help companies that are normally profitable to be more afraid and secure. It is important for the Central Party that the temporary amendment of the law actually fulfills the intention of the change. Therefore, we want the government to follow the way the laws are applied, and that they may quickly return to the Stortinget with proposals for change if necessary. In the context of a reconstruction process, it is important that they are added to the process by both small and large enterprises and that they are heard in the process. This draft law does not define what should be considered as small enterprises. There are advantages and disadvantages by setting a fixed number of e.g. the number of employees in an enterprise in order for it to be considered reliable. The central party agrees with the plural that one should avoid a number fixation in the legal text, because we think it's now most likely. Not least, we note that the Department of Proposition suggests that a more detailed definition of small enterprises should be included in the regulation. In line with what we write about on-going evaluation in the notes, and that the government has to propose changes if necessary, it is clear that the definition of small enterprises is also something the government has to follow in the future. Even if this is set out in regulations and this is not the case for Storting again, it would be natural for the government to consider changes in the regulations to come if it turns out that the first definition of small enterprises as seen by the government is not reasonable or has negative sides. There is no doubt that the Minister of Justice and the Stortinget have turned around quickly when the government made this proposal, and I hope that this rapid treatment will help the individual business in this demanding situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1452	The size now deals with a law on reconstruction in connection with this pandemic for companies that have been in crisis. We're going to adopt it collectively. I think this case is in line with how biging and government has handled this pandemic. There has been a good response from both the big business and the government in these matters. We've all taken responsibility, and we've tried to avoid partisan conflict, just to show people, businesses and companies, etc. that there is an overall political Norway that is behind the measures we provide. Then I'm not going to go into detail about that law, because it seems to me that I'm well-informed by the head of the Justice Committee, and I agree with her considerations. She's done an amazing job. We got this bill a few days ago, and it's been working 24 hours a day, under the leadership of the committee's chairman, and it's impressed us all. I should rather spend the time explaining two reservations that SV has. We're going to vote for this law, but we have two reservations. We believe that with the two things we would not go in for, the law could be very good anyway. One is related to duration, and I would very much like the Minister of Justice to comment on why the government here proposes a duration of 2021. This is a temporary law, and when it is a temporary law, we believe that it should in principle be as short as possible. In the rationale for a period of one and a half years, the Department writes that it is desirable to gain experience with new rules, because it is useful to include it in the evaluation of future amendments to this Act. So here you use this temporary law for something quite different than a pandemic control; you use this law to gain experience related to a change in a new law. I think that is unfortunate, because we should not use this crisis situation to experiment with the legislation. Until then, the situation is too serious. Then it must also be added that this law will have major economic consequences both for companies, for creditors and not least for the state's ability to tax revenue. So I think it's unfortunate that you have a substantive reason, to call it that, for the duration. Our second reservation is linked to this with tax. The law also seeks to specify that the public should not have a right of pre-emption for the companies that are in bankruptcy proceedings. The state will then become a creditor in the same line with – I kept saying – any sausage-bub who has a claim in the company that is in bankruptcy negotiations, and we think that is unfortunate. We believe that it is not right to experiment with tax legislation in this crisis situation, also because the proceeds have not been calculated in any way here. These two things combined, both a duration of one and a half years and an exemption from the right of preference for taxation, make this law have very uncertain economic consequences. To make changes to the tax regime for companies, it must be based on a separate investigation and a much more robust decision-making basis. So SV wants to put forward proposals on these two things today: a shorter duration, a duration only out of this year, and in addition, we do not want to change the state's preference in tax and VAT payments. With that, I'll take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1469	The representative, Petter Eide, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1474	The Korona crisis has caused major problems and huge loss of income for many businesses. It's very serious, and it creates great uncertainty for many. That as much as possible has a job to go to — to summer, to autumn, to next year and in the years to come — is crucial both for the economy and for the individual. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has put forward proposals for a new temporary law on reconstruction to address financial problems arising from the outbreak of covid-19, the aim of which is to reduce the risk of unnecessary bankruptcy in viable businesses affected by an acute failure of revenue as a result of the outbreak. Effective restructuring rules can help to ensure that enterprises that would be profitable in normal circumstances can more effectively be rescued and jobs and values secured. I am very pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Committee on this matter, and I would like to thank, in particular, the rapporteur, Mr Lagen Wagslid, and also the rest of the Committee, for a very good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1483	First of all, thank you very much for your very good cooperation with the Committee and with the rapporteur – an important and good cooperation in this situation. I am very pleased that a unanimous committee supports the proposal in the proposal for a temporary law on reconstruction to remedy financial problems arising from the outbreak of covid-19. So today, the rules on indebtedness negotiations are governed by the bankruptcy law, but very little negotiations are opened under these rules. In short, this is due to the inadequacy of the rules for the successful reconstruction of the establishments. The current situation, and the acute effects of the covid-19 outbreak on the Norwegian economy, make it particularly important to put in place more effective debt settlement rules. It has to be assumed that many businesses will have financial problems due to the failure of revenue, and thus several businesses may need to find schemes with creditors that can help them through a difficult period of time to avoid bankruptcy. The proposal is justified in the one-person inquiry into the restructuring rules that were at the consultation in autumn 2016. Major changes are proposed to the applicable rules on debt negotiation in the bankruptcy law and it is proposed that the rules be laid down in a separate temporary law. In the new law, the term ‘reconstruction’ is used instead of ‘debt negotiation’. It should be noted that the aim of the proposal is to provide more instruments for negotiating with creditors in addition to a mere reduction of the debt. In addition, it is proposed, inter alia: that negotiations on reconstruction could be initiated earlier than today, while the debtor still has funds left. A major problem with today's rules is that, when debt negotiations are opened, there is often little money left to help solve the problem for businesses. The proposal will also facilitate the adoption of a restructuring plan and allow for more reconstruction measures than today, for example. the conversion of liabilities into share capital by reconstruction by coercion. Provision is made for a temporary derogation from public preference for tax and value added tax, and for collateral to be provided for loans for financing under reconstruction prioritising all other mortgage holders. In addition, the protection of debtors against the opening of bankruptcy and the enforcement of forced coverage during reconstruction negotiations is strengthened. Overall, the proposals aim to establish a more effective tool to address the debt problems of businesses and to sort out which businesses can be viable. The legislative proposal is expected to lead to several successful debt negotiations and a reduction in the number of bankruptcies, thus saving important jobs and creating values. This applies in general, but it is of particular importance to reduce the risk of unnecessary bankruptcies in viable businesses affected by an acute loss of income. Such effects will be positive both for individual enterprises, for creditors, for businesses in general and for society as a whole. Let me then briefly comment on some of the things that have been taken up in the previous posts. The representative Petter Eide questioned the temporaryity. Then I have to be very clear that the reason why we have been very quickly promoted is the coronary situation. However, this one-person investigation was carried out in its own time because it has generally been a desire to put in place such rules, including in Norway. There are many other countries that have it, and the rules we have are not suitable both in an emergency and in a normal situation. So now you want to gather experience from different things, from different parts of the country, and it takes some time. We do that in order to promote a permanent law, but which will then be subject to permanent and proper legal proceedings – it is a proper legal procedure, too, but that is: in a more ordinary way and with ordinary hearings and that kind of thing. So that's the background that the length is the way it is. In the case of taxes, the government has a pre-emptive right. We say that there can be a right of preference, but that the public should not always have it. It's about the fact that the public is also involved in a fissure layer, a trick, to save jobs. I think that is important – it is an important contribution from the public, and it benefits the public when saving jobs. I would also like to say to the committee that once you have placed § 61 second paragraph no. 4 about employees' rights, it's very good, very important – and a good law has become even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1507	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1524	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1531	There is a good tradition in this Chamber for the rapporteur to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. In this case, there is reason to thank you for a particularly good cooperation, when you look at the Committee's willingness to contribute to rapid implementation and a broad majority. The proposal proposes a temporary law on the management of defence personnel to remedy the consequences of covid-19. The aim is to ensure that the defence can maintain the operational capability, preparedness and strength production through the covid-19 epidemic. The bill provides the defence with a limited jurisdiction over civil servants where this is strictly necessary for the purposes of the law. In addition, the proposal empowers the defence to take strictly necessary measures, both within and outside the working hours, vis-à-vis military personnel, civil servants and civil servants. The defence consists of a number of different categories of personnel, and the employer’s management of these is based on different legal bases. In order to improve the ability of the defence to maintain operational capability, preparedness and strength production in a particularly demanding time for the country, this legislative proposal is presented. I choose to make it short. The majority is wide. The matter has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1544	It is in my place, too, to thank the Committee for its good and fast work, well implemented. I know that in these times it is that very much of the work of the Storting is targeting direct corona-related issues. This is actually a little bit on the side; it's about the defense to have an opportunity to do what the defense really should, in the future. The premise is that most of it has already been solved on a voluntary basis locally out there. I think that's good. It also makes it easy to say that volunteering should be at the bottom, and then this should be a law that gives us a safety valve if we get so far that we need to order. I note that this is a broad understanding of the legislative proposal. I would like to thank the Committee for having been quick in its proceedings. So I'm not going to spend any more time on it. Thank you for your work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1551	SV proposes to say no to the temporary bill submitted by the government. It's not because we don't see the need to implement infectious disease prevention measures quickly in the defense, or the important role the defense can play in the situation we're in, but simply because we believe the experience to now is that this can be solved in a good way through agreements, and also simply through volunteering, because the civil servants in the defense have shown that they are very willing to stretch far and take a thank-you to make sure that we get through this situation well. For example, there are many employees who step in, for example: in the cleaning team where it has not been able to function properly – a high degree of flexibility in implementing disease protection measures. Then I believe that the clear objection and advice that come, in particular from the Norwegian Civil Service Team, not to adopt such a law now, will be taken seriously because the sense of trust and good spirit is very important in this situation, and then we should not adopt this kind of action unless we are absolutely, absolutely sure that it is necessary. The experience to now and the very clear signal we get from the unions is that you are not just willing to, but want to stretch. So we should do this the most Norwegian way, and it's through cooperation, agreements, and the enthusiastic volunteering that we see that a lot of defence employees are now facing this situation. On that basis, we believe that this bill is disproportionate and unnecessary, and we are going to vote against it today. Then we have submitted some comments, based on a recognition that this is going to be adopted, where we say a little about how we think it should be enforced when, after all, the law comes into place – against our votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1560	Next speaker is State Council Frank Bakke-Jensen. The council must almost come up to the pulpit before he speaks. Then the Council of State will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1567	Excuse me, President. Actually, I tried to give the representative Lightbaking an opportunity to get a line on me, as that was what he really wanted when he jumped up. I just want to comment briefly on the article on the Light Tray. We fully agree with what is practice today. We have very good cooperation with the organisations. There's a lot of flexibility out there, so you get this. Nevertheless, the head of defense has a desire that if things happen – and things can happen quickly in the current crisis – he will have that opportunity. That is why we believe that the legislative proposal is both proportionate and necessary. In practice, so far all that the representative Light Hill described up here is what really happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1574	As an alternate in a new committee, I will first use the opportunity to thank the other representatives for a quick and effective examination of the matter. It is inspiring to see that, in these extraordinary times, we can agree on an effective handling of matters that are essential to ensure Norwegian preparedness and defence, and it is a strength that we have an almost unanimous committee position. We're in a special situation. The situation is new and unknown to many of us, and we have had to introduce measures that strongly interfere with people's everyday lives. At the same time, we do it in a way that respects our democracy and the fundamental freedoms that make our country a free society. The defence's ability to uphold Norway's sovereignty is a guarantor of the free society in which we live. At the same time, the defense, with its special assumptions, stands in a special position in these days. Civil and military personnel are both exposed to infection and the concentration of both groups of personnel makes defence particularly vulnerable to possible outbreaks. In order to deal with such outbreaks, the Defense currently has an order authority over military personnel. This can be used to limit the spread both within and outside regular working hours. Today, the defence has not the same opportunity to make such in-depth decisions on behalf of civil personnel. Under normal circumstances, this would not be a challenge, but because one third of the defence personnel are civil servants, today's rules put the defense in a difficult situation. The defence therefore needs rules to ensure that it has the necessary powers to limit the outbreaks of infection among personnel and to fulfil its basic social function. The Committee endorses the government's proposal for a legislative amendment under a clear condition that it is time-limited. I understand that civil personnel can feel this as a tough intervention in their everyday lives, but will stress that in these extraordinary times, our first responsibility is to ensure the defence of the prerequisites necessary to fulfil a role that no one else can fill. We don't know how long the time horizon we have in front of us until we get the coronary apathy under long-term control. Until then, we have to be prepared to live in a slightly different working day. I know that every day as a hospital staff, and so do others every day. As elected representatives, we have a responsibility for our women and men in uniform and the important social mission they have. It is also with these in mind that today I fully support the government's proposal, as an overwhelming majority of the representatives of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence have done in committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1589	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1602	Councillor Frank Bakke-Jensen will carry 1 kg. the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1613	The size is then ready to go to voting. Case No. 1-3 have already been treated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1627	A total of 49 proposals have been put forward during the debate. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 39–49, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a lesson-conscious school across the country, where the type and amount of homework provided are in line with the available knowledge of the type of homework that inhibits and promotes motivation and learning.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an overall evaluation of the educational assistance provision in Norway.’ Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and come back to the Grand Duchy with proposals for a new joint cooperation law to ensure children and young people’s holistic and multidisciplinary services. The law must give children and their superior rights to necessary and comprehensive services across sectors and levels from which services are provided.» Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the PP service in all municipalities have employees with competence for the rights of Sami children and families.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to require the PP service in the municipality to be aware of how they ensure that Sami children and families meet with language and culture understanding.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government is asked to instruct the PP service in the municipalities, in consultation with the family, to involve a resource institution competent in Sami language and culture if the PP service does not have the necessary competence.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government is asking for quality requirements for the distance teaching offer in Sami so that the offer is a good alternative to local education.’ Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government requests that students be entitled to training in Sami if at least three pupils in the municipality so require.’ Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to grant all students the right to continue training in Sami in secondary education.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that if Sami training is provided as distance learning, the student is offered a part of the training in a Sami-language environment where necessary.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The government asks the child perspective to be incorporated into the mandate for user-led personal assistance selection [[BPA]] The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1700	There is a vote on proposal No. 38, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks to replace homework with school lessons.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1717	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 36 and 37, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review the second stage competence objectives in the light of the notified evaluation of the six-year reform.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to open up the use of nursery teachers in school.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1741	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 34 and 35, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to launch a small number of late school start-ups in order to gain experience as to whether the measure has the desired effects.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate better and more effective teacher training by following the increased expectations of the quality and intensity of education in teacher training, through: a. increased study intensity through several hours spent in the studies overall, broken down by organised learning activities and self-study, with the aim of increasing the average time spent on the studies in the teacher training courses to at least the average for the rest of the students; b. to follow up the training provided by the educational institutions to ensure that the teachers are trained in practical teaching and that the teachers meet in the classroom; c. to follow-up the continuous work of educational institutions with measures to improve cooperation with the working life of teacher students in education; d. strengthening the competence of students, teacher training and practical schools in the use of digital tools and learning methods.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1774	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 32 and 33, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public body to examine the proposal for a new joint cooperation law in order to ensure children and young people’s holistic and multidisciplinary services.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how the instruments can be better organised to support school owners’ efforts to ensure a good and equivalent offer.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1798	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–31, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to extend the obligation of cooperation in transitions between levels of education to the transition between secondary and secondary education.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking, on the basis of the notified evaluation of the six-year reform, to come back to the United Kingdom with proposals for measures to organise the school in order to better meet the needs of the youngest students.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked not to impose obligations to map all Norwegian children’s knowledge prior to school start.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a joint sample to assess how schools in need of support can best be followed up from national teams.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the special educational assistance legislation with a view to red tape and reducing the detail of regulations, so that a smaller bureaucratic system of decisions is more secure and better ensure that the competences and resources are moved out of the offices and as close as possible to the children.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size believes Alternatives and Complementary Communication is an area that needs to be strengthened and asks the government in the context of the State budget for 2021 to ensure a national ASK competence environment in Statped in order to provide guidance to municipalities and the development of learning materials and technical solutions.’ [[ASK]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is behind the objective of enabling all children to attend their secondary school by 2030 and is asking the Government to submit a plan to the Stortinget for a follow-up to the Roadmap. Universally designed secondary school 2030’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the children and students are listened to and included in the design of the special educational offer.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a comprehensive national plan on how to reverse resource use in order to ensure that the expertise of the PPT is moved closer to the students, including review the expert judgement legislation, and to assess whether PPT is required for out-of-school working.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how PPT and contact teachers can better follow students in transitions and come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the regulations for primary school teachers’ education so that the scope of the education and teaching profession is at least 60 credits, excluding religious, life and ethics modules.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate, with a view to establishing a national framework for teacher training practices, in close dialogue with the sector and the field of practice.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the training law and the law so as to reintroduce a derogation from the educational qualification requirement for general teachers who have fulfilled the requirements to be employed in the teaching position, including general teachers who have commenced the training before 1 January 2014.’» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government, in cooperation with the parties, to ensure that the school owner and the school management take attractive senior measures to allow teachers to take longer jobs.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a system of national application funds that school leaders can apply for to carry out local development projects to recruit more teachers and specialised educators to schools, such as extra pay measures or reward for more permanent employment.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking, in the context of the State budget for 2021, to provide an overview of the total need for new teachers and the need for further training of teachers in school who do not meet the new skills requirements today.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that teachers with a high level of research competence and up-to-date professional competence are still present throughout the country and to equip newly-trained as well as advanced and advanced teachers to apply new curricula.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide its own big message about recruiting teachers with measures to ensure sufficient qualified teachers throughout initial training.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to put in place a framework plan or similar for the special education courses.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change to the Dekomp facility in order to ensure more fully the intention of the system of development from below, so that teachers and principals can better define the needs and skills development measures and come back to this in the context of the State budget for 2021.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether the cooperation ‘made around the student’ between school, PPT and child protection should be included in the Dekomp for open-ended projects with cross-disciplinary competence development’. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to anchor the system of teachers’ specialists in the social partners before it is further expanded.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government not to go further with the reorganisation of Statped, as it will weaken the state support system and help to the children who need it the most.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure that Statped is granted dedicated means of conversion for the five-year period of transition and to return to this effect in the context of the revised State budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider the previous reorganisation of Statped and its effects and then to return to the Storting and explain the costs and benefits of further reorganisations to the best of students with special needs.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asking for consistency to assess the construction of Statped with the related special education disciplines and how recruitment, research and education should be followed up in order to ensure them.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to maintain teaching material production in Statped.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken to help improve access to information on the right to Sami training for Sami students and parents.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to follow up on the fact that the measures taken lead to more teachers’ students in Sami languages and culture.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the Sameting, is asking the Government to take action to develop the necessary learning materials.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to follow up the decision on physical activity at school and to reflect this in the preparation of the national framework plan for the SFO.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e1991	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Roy Steffensen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that county councils are obliged to ensure that all students applying for secondary education have effective free choice of schools, either throughout the county or in the entrance regions, and that the changes take effect in the autumn of 2021.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e2022	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose to the Storting that the county councils’ right to decide for themselves the model of higher education admission be included in the training law.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e2073	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e2083	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e2095	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e3174	An alternative between new § 64 and proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. [[2]] The proposal reads as follows: ‘New Section 64 is replaced by the following: the Act is repealed on 1 January 2021. [[2]] [[2]] The amendments to Section 66 shall be repealed from the same time.’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e3195	Alternatively, Article 61, first sentence, and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. [[2]] The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 61, first sentence, shall be replaced by the following: [[2]] The king may also lay down special rules for small undertakings, with less than 30 employees, for the purposes of simplified restructuring negotiations.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e3218	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e3223	It'll be corrected. The setting was accepted by 53 votes to 33. It is votered over § 66 nr. 3rd@item: inlistbox The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e3239	It is votered over the rest of § 61, the rest of § 64, the rest of § 66 and other paragraphs in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e3249	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e3260	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e3319	The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e3331	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e3345	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-24.ana.ud173e3365	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
